Perhaps I could first of all make a brief explanation in relation to this issue. It has been suggested in the news media that the problem arose out of the Arbitrator's decision to give to certain classifications of the Amalgamated Postal Workers Union a rise of between $1.0 and $91 and also out of the fact that a 6.6% increase which had been given to motor drivers and to certain work areas had not been passed on to this particular group. The APWU lodged a claim in relation to these classifications in December 1.968. The first decision, which was an interim decision, was given in January 1969. A further decision, which was a consent decision, was given in July 1969. The Arbitrator's decision was the third in relation to this claim. The three together represent in the broad area an increase of from 8.6% to 10.5% in the wages of these classifications. I say that because I believe that this matter has been put out of perspective so far as the public is concerned. 
As to the question which the honourable member asked, today there has been consultation between the Australian Council of Trade Unions, the Amalgamated Postal Workers Union, the Public Service Board and representatives of the Post Office. The conclusion late this afternoon was that it is believed that because the request in relation to the 6.6% increase was made at a very late stage in the Arbitrator's hearing, there is some justification for looking at this situation. It has been agreed that they will endeavour to take this aspect before the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and will, at the same time, recommend to the union that normal working be resumed. I think it has to be said that the APWU will' take this recommendation back to its members. I hope, and I believe that every honourable member hopes, that it will be accepted by the members of the APWU and that we will get back to normal operation within the Post Office and have the mails moving again to the advantage of the Australian community. 
I think the honourable member asked me  a  question about this matter during the last session. I informed him then that there had been considerable delay in receipt of essential equipment from, the United Kingdom. My understanding and expectation is that the system will be completed by the end of June. I remind the honourable gentleman that during the Christmas period the Post Office leased some twenty-four channels on the satellite system between Sydney and Perth so that Western Australian people would not be disadvantaged because the microwave system had not been completed. Those channels would cost the Post Office at the rate of $55,000 per annum per channel. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend those portions of the Broadcasting and Television Act which affect the financial operations of the Australian Broadcasting Commission and the Australian Broadcasting Control Board and to make some changes to the existing provisions regarding the ownership and control of broadcasting and television stations. The Bill also makes certain other changes affecting the Broadcasting Commission and extends broadcast listener's and television viewer's licence concessions to several additional small groups of pensioners. 1 do not intend to go into detail as to the financial provisions of this Bill. As drafted they represent what is nowadays a standard approach to statutory authority financial legislation. The existing provisions in the Act have been recognised for some time as being inadequate and indeed the Public Accounts Committee, at the time of its inquiry into the financial affairs of the Australian Broadcasting Commission, expressed interest in the comparison between the financial provisions of the Act as they relate to the Broadcasting Commission and similar provisions relating to other statutory authorities. 
Both the Treasury and the AuditorGeneral's Office have been consulted with a view to amending the Act, both in relation to the Broadcasting Commission and the Broadcasting Control Board, so that its provisions will adequately reflect the modern approach to statutory authority financial regulation. The Bill has been drafted accordingly to achieve this purpose and in particular to update the banking provisions, provide for the proper keeping of accounts and records and to amplify the audit provisions in accordance with more modern legislation. The Bill also makes certain other changes affecting the administration of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. Section 40 of the Act at present provides that the Commission may delegate ils powers, except the power of delegation itself, to a Commissioner or the Genera) Manager. In an organisation such as the Broadcasting Commission, which operates in all States of the Commonwealth, this restriction on delegation of powers has led to administrative difficulties in that only the Commission or the General Manager may, for example, incur expenditure or issue contracts. The Bill therefore amends section 40 to provide that the Commission's powers may be delegated to any person in the employ of the Commission. The delegation of the power to appoint permanent officers of the Commission is, however, still limited to a Commissioner or the General Manager. 
Amendments to sections 61 and 62 are included in the Bill to liberalise the conditions under which the Broadcasting Commission may, without the approval of the Minister, purchase and dispose of property, or enter into .any agreement involving expenditure. The Act at present places a $40,000 limit on these transactions and directs that no agreement may be entered into for a period in excess of 5 years. In view of the changes in values since these provisions were first drafted in 1942, the Bill proposes that these limits be raised to $100,000 and 10 years respectively. In addition, the existing section 71 is repealed. This section provides that the Commission may not pay compensation to a member of the Commission or its officers or employees in excess of $300 without the approval of the Minister. The purpose of this section is not known and since it has no counterpart in other legislation, and the Commonwealth Employees Compensation legislation provides adequate cover, there appears to be no reason for its retention. 
The Bill provides for 2 new Sections, 90aa and 91ab, to amend the ownership and control provisions of the Act relating to broadcasting and television station licences respectively. The effect of the new provisions, if passed by the Parliament, will be that interests in broadcasting and television licences acquired by funds maintained for the purpose of providing pensions and retiring allowances or other personal benefits for the employees of a company shall be deemed for the purposes of the ownership and control provisions to be beneficially held by the company concerned. Honourable members will be aware that the Act now places important restrictions on the number of television and broadcasting stations that can be controlled by any one person or company. In this connection, it will, I think, be agreed that there is obviously a close association between company employees benefit funds and the companies with which such funds are associated. Experience has shown that there is an increasing trend for pension funds associated with companies already having extensive interests in broadcasting and television stations to invest also in companies having interests in such stations. If this trend is permitted to continue unchecked it could have a material bearing on the control of television and broadcasting stations. After a full review of all the circumstances, the Government came to the conclusion that such a development was contrary to the intentions of the ownership and control provisions of the Act and that in consequence those provisions should be amended to take into account such form of investment. Clauses 14 and 15 of the Bill give effect to this decision. Honourable members will note that the new provisions will apply as from 12th December 1969, which was the date on which I announced the Government's intention to bring down this legislation. 
Finally, the Bill takes the opportunity to group, in section 128, for the purpose of concessions, all pensions payable under the Repatriation Act and other Acts making provisions of a similar kind. At the same time, the concessions available under this section have been extended to certain additional pensioner groups. This amendment has been undertaken as a tidying up exercise to bring within the scope of the broadcast listener's and television viewer's licence concessions persons in receipt of pensions of the same kind as those applicable to existing concessional licensees. The new entitlement covers persons in receipt of a service pension under the Repatriation (Special Overseas Service) legislation and persons in receipt of service pensions and pensions in respect of total and permanent incapacity under the Native Members of the Forces Benefits Act. Tn addition the Bill grants concessions to persons in receipt of pensions for total and permanent incapacity under the Interim Forces Benefits Act and the Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances Act. The number of persons involved in this amendment will be small but the concessions have been extended in the interests of giving equitable treatment to all persons in receipt of similar pensions. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Stewart)  adjourned. 
Consideration has been given by the Government from time to time to changing the Post Office to a statutory corporation. I think that the honourable member is making an assumption when he says that it would take operations in relation to the staff from the control of the Public Service Board. There are many statutory corporations for which the Public Service Board has just as much responsibility as it has for departmental public servants. 
I think that it has not been proven that to create a statutory corporation would make the Post Office any more effective than it is at the present time. I know that there has been a move in this direction oversea. America is moving in that way. But honourable members should be reminded that the American Post Office looks after postal services only. When I was in the United States 3 years ago, the loss on the postal service there was S J, 800m in that year. That sort of loss is not to be compared with the situation in the Australian Post Office. While generally a small loss has been incurred in relation to postal services, this loss has been more than offset by the profit made in the telecommunications section. I think that, until it can be shown positively that a statutory corporation is a more effective operation than the Post Office as part of the Public Service, the Government will not be prepared and is not prepared at this time to move in the direction indicated by the honourable member. 
The honourable member will know that 2 or 3 years ago I made a very full statement to the House about the provision of frequency modulation broadcasting in Australia. This matter had been considered on a number of occasions. Recommendations of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board have in fact been against the institution of this system in Australia for, I think, some very good reasons. First of all the Government is and has been involved in very substantial expenditure in the introduction of broadcasting and television in this country. There are still a number of areas of Australia which do not have either television or a satisfactory broadcasting transmission available to them. It is believed that our expenditure and our concentration of effort should be with a view to- providing satisfactory services in these areas where none now exists before we expand into other fields. But there is an additional problem, because while we get fidelity of sound with frequency modulation the area of coverage is very small. In the United States of America and Canada progress in this field has been so great that in the United States alone 5,000 stations have been established, but so prolific are these stations that it is almost impossible to tune to the station of one's choice and obtain the result which might be hoped for by those in Australia who in recent times have been exerting pressure for the institution of frequency modulation in this country. This is a matter which the Broadcasting Control Board has under review on a more or less constant basis in conjunction with its considerations in other areas of broadcasting and television. From time to time the Board issues reports, which are considered by the Government. 
There may be some concern in certain areas of the television industry about the lack of an announcement as to when colour television might be introduced. I do not think this concern is justified because at the time I indicated to the Parliament and to the public that  18  months notice would be given. I also said that it was necessary for the Australian Broadcasting Control Board to be in touch with industry - and I speak of industry in the broadest possible terms - about technical requirements and standard requirements. The Board only recently received answers to a very lengthy questionnaire. It will process these answers and in due course will make a recommendation or a report to me. Then I shall submit that report to the Government. Having regard to the requirements of technical and other standards it would be impossible at the present time to make any statement or determination as to a date for the introduction of colour television.  Mr Speaker,  1 do not believe that  18  months is too short a period. It has not been represented to me by the television stations or by the industry that  18  months from the time when the announcement is made is too short a period for them to be prepared for colour television. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) In recent years Members of the House of Assembly have broadcast regularly over A.B.C. stations in the Territory. For example these are details for the period 1st July 1969 to 4th March 1970: 
I appreciate the action of the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart)  in indicating to me today that he intended to raise this matter in the adjournment debate this evening. In fact, he saw me last week in relation to this matter. At a later hour today it was suggested to him that pending a continuation of the investigation his speech might be held over until perhaps next week, by which time a decision might have been taken. He preferred to continue with his purpose of bringing the matter before the House tonight. 
Whilst I admit many of the things which have been said and which I agree should be recorded in Hansard, I believe that I should make one or two comments in relation to the matter, at the same time giving an undertaking that I will continue, with the Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes),  to investigate the situation. There are two Acts under which charges may be made against employees of the Commonwealth. One is the Crimes Act, to which the honourable member has referred. It was believed that in this case the offences or alleged offences were of sufficient importance to justify action under the Crimes Act. Section 55 of the Public Service Act covers what 1 might term an administrative process within the Public Service. Section 62 of the Public Service Act deals with what I might term more serious charges than those dealt with under section 55. 
I think it can be stated that really we were trying to resolve two things. One was whether a crime had been committed and the other was whether, irrespective of the decision of the magistrate, the person concerned was a fit and proper person to continue in the employ of the Commonwealth. The mere fact of discharge by the magistrate in relation to the charges under the Crimes Act did not necessarily indicate that this person continued to be appropriate as a servant of the Commonwealth. 
I merely tried to put this in context. Honourable members opposite may interject. They may have their own views. I have indicated that I am prepared to continue to examine the case in conjunction with the Attorney-General. There is not very much more that one should say, at this point of time, in relation to this matter. I can as Minister act in accordance with the advice which is given to me. The advice given to me was that, in fact, this is a long standing practice within the Public Service. 
It might be - and I think I can put it in this way - that the honourable member for Lang virtually is saying that a person cannot be charged twice for the same offence. In broad principle, one might be tempted to accept this situation. But am I to assume therefore that, if the trial under the Crimes Act in fact had gone against the person charged, the penalty imposed by the court should be the end of it and that no further charge could be made and the person concerned should still remain a servant of the Commonwealth? I think that one could take this approach in regard to the situation. It is very easy in view of the way in which this case turned out - the man was charged and he was found not guilty - to suggest that a further charge should not be made. 
But let us assume that a different decision had been reached in the first place. Would it reasonably be expected then that this man should continue in the employ of the Commonwealth? In other words, that in relation to the same offence a second penalty should not apply? I suggest to honourable members opposite who may be inclined to interject that they should perhaps analyse this situation. I think that one is entitled to take this into consideration in coming to a final determination in relation to this matter. I regret that the honourable member for Lang did bring this matter forward at this stage when he knew that it was under consideration. But it is his entitlement. Having put this point of view, as I believe I am justified in doing, I make no excuse for it. 
The honourable member will know that I keep in close touch with this operation, because over the years there has been some delay in relation to it. Nevertheless, the delay to some extent was overcome by temporary installations for use by commercial and national stations at. Cairns. I understand that the roadway to the base of the cableway at Bellenden Ker has been completed, that the clearing of the cableway area has been done, that within the next few weeks a contract for the cableway and associated buildings will be let, that during this year tenders will be called for the antenna and the necessary equipment and that the station should be in operation by the end of next year. When I say that, the honourable member, knowing the weather conditions in north Queensland from time to time, will understand that there could be problems over which there could be no control. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The matter has been the subject of recent consideration by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board including first-hand engineering observations but I have not yet received a report from the Board. As I informed the honourable member in reply to a previous question (Hansard, 25th March 1969) the area in question is one of a number having claims for improved reception which are the subject of investigations by the Board. Following ratification in December 1969 of an agreement negotiated with New Zealand during 1969 concerning the use of frequency channels, I understand that considerable progress has been made with the investigations and the honourable member may be assured that consideration of possibilities of improved broadcasting service in the Wyndham-Kununurra area is not being overlooked. 
I regret to say that I did not catch everything the honourable member included in his question, but I do know that during the last general election campaign and on other occasions, people have tried to simulate telegrams as publicity or advertising media.  I  inform the members of the House and the public that of course this is quite contrary to the regulations under the Posts and Telegraph Act. Action will be taken against any person found using this form of advertising. As to the details of the telegram which the honourable member intends to show me, when I have seen it I will have an investigation made and advise him of the results. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The need to keep official post offices open during times of emergency is always given very careful attention by the Department. The decision not to re-open Mackay and Proserpine post offices on the occasion of Cyclone Ada was largely influenced by the fact that normal telephone service was available between Mackay and Townsville. Also although the Mackay-Proserpine route was affected on the Sunday, limited telephone facilities are available for most of the time for the disposal of urgent traffic. 
Postal Services in Cyclone Emergency  (Question No. 256) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is the practice for telegrams addressed to Mackay, and centres north of Mackay, to be routed via Townsville on Saturday afternoons and Sundays, the amount of telegram business normally offering over the weekends being insufficient to justify opening the Mackay and Proserpine post offices. 
Telephone trunk circuits between Townsville and Mackay were not affected by Cyclone Ada. However, delays of about 2 hours did occur in disposing of some messages to Mackay due to  a  traffic build-up at Townsville and difficulties experienced in obtaining an answer from some telephone subscribers. Investigations undertaken by the Department show that the number of staff rostered for duty at Townsville should have been supplemented to meet the heavy traffic conditions. This aspect will be given close attention in any future emergency. 
I have indicated previously in the House that the question of programming by the Australian Broadcasting Commission is determined by the Commission itself. There is no interference from me or from members of the Government. As to repeat performances of programmes, I have indicated to the House also that there is a difficulty facing television stations in obtaining sufficient good programmes in order to avoid repetition of some of them. Indeed, it is known that about one-third of the viewing public sees a presentation on the first occasion and that there are many other people in the community who would like a second opportunity. I have only to refer to the repeat of a series of films such as the 'Forsyte Saga' which, I am sure, was seen as an opportunity by very many people to see it when it was shown the second time. In relation to the film 'Son of Man', I have had a number of letters sent to me and I have been in discussion with the ABC because of the answers which the  Chairman  has made available to me, representing the point of view of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. This is an interpretation by a modern playwright of an historical event and I think very few people would reject the right of a playwright to place his own interpretation upon it. 
The ABC was particularly careful in relation to the presentation of this film. Before the film was presented publicly it called together a number of ministers of religion in the Sydney area to give them a preview to find the reaction of these gentlemen to this film. There were some who did not appreciate it, some who disliked it and some who liked it. None of them, I am informed, suggested that this film should not be shown. Having been shown to the public, it has caused a good deal of discussion. It has been a provocative film and I believe that it is one of the requirements of television that this type of film should be shown to the Australian public. The letters that 1 have received and which have been received by the ABC have represented, I think, every religious point of view in the Australian community and I think it would be impossible to find any section which as a whole has raised an objection to this film. People comment one way or the other, and from my own knowledge from letters I have received I know that people of many religions have requested a repeat of this film for the purpose not only of seeing it a second time but also of giving to those who have not seen it previously the opportunity to do so. 
I remind honourable members that some 12 months ago - at any rate during last year - I indicated that there would be an additional 38 television stations in the country areas of Australia. Twentythree of these would be in the State of Queensland and a number of them would be in the electorate of the honourable member who has asked this question. He will appreciate that we are constructing at the present time from Townsville to Mount Isa a microwave link and 5 of the stations that have been mentioned will be associated with this link. These stations will cover places such as Hughenden, Julia Creek, Cloncurry, Mary Kathleen and one other. I expect that they will be in operation towards the end of 1971. 
As to the remainder, there is a good deal of technical work to be done because I indicated at the time I made the statement that this service would be implemented by the use of what we term a thin line. This is a smaller cable than a coaxial cable; it might be a mini-microwave rather than the normal microwave system. Of course, some of the areas in which these stations will be installed are very sparsely populated and the engineering effort for the protection and the assurance that these stations will be able to operate continuously will require a good deal of research and care in the installation. I believe that the remainder will be installed continuously between 1972 and 1974. 
I would believe that the answer is yes. 
 I am nol aware of the document to which the honourable member refers. The Post Office does not have a view in relation to articles which are placed in the mail, provided they are in conformity with the regulations of the Post and Telegraph Act. The only discrimination which the Post Office is allowed in this connection is in relation to articles which are blasphemous, indecent, etc. I do not know the precise wording of the legislation. Honourable members should appreciate that the Post Office, unless it is suspicious that this type of material is going through the mail, has no right whatever to open the mail. 
I am sure that honourable members appreciate the fact that the Australian Broadcasting Commission is set up under the Broadcasting and Television Act, which was passed by this Parliament. This Parliament gave to the Australian Broadcasting Commission almost complete autonomy in relation to programming. The film 'Son of Man', which has been referred to, was passed by the Commonwealth film censor in the same way that films which are seen in any cinema in Australia are approved. A week or so ago I gave a clear indication of the processes adopted by the ABC before the film was shown on television and the reasons why it was to he repeated. I do not think it is necessary for me to repeat those comments at this stage The ABC is entitled to make its own judgment on this matter. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The Honourable Member is making a play on words to suite his own purposes. Although the Oxford Dictionary does define 'inordinate' as immoderate, excessive, intemperate or disorderly', Webster's describes it in addition as 'exceeding in amount, quantity, force, intensity, or scope the ordinary, reasonable, or prescribed limits'. Over the last twelve months lengthy meetings, involving the Director-General and other senior officers of my Department at Headquarters alone, have been held with Unions on the average of one about every 3.6 working days. I believe it would be obvious therefore that the word 'inordinate' in my statement was used in the sense of being excessive having regard to the many other essential demands which are made on their time. However, only a completely biased observer could interpret this comment as an unwillingness to confer with Unions wilh a view to resolving differences and maintaining good management-staff relations. 
No. The Post Office is always available for discussion on Union matters. 
The answer to the honourmember's question is as follows: 
and (2) Mingenew is among 38 areas in which national stations are to be established throughout the Commonwealth in the Seventh  Stage of  television development which I announced on 15th May 1969. When making this announcement I indicated that this stage of development would be implemented over a four year period to 1972-73. At present the technical planning of the stations is being undertaken as expeditiously as possible but I  am  not yet able to provide details of the completion dates of the various stations concerned. However, I will make a statement on the matter when the necessary information is available to me. As I have previously indicated, the question of television in relation to Mullewa could not be examined until after the commencement of the Geraldton national station. Now that this station is operating it is the intention of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board to further investigate the situation. The Board will report to me on the matter in due course. Because of geographical features the possibilities associated with the provision of service to Morawa are not as clear cut as are those for Mingenew and Mullewa. Whilst I cannot give any assurance regarding the provision of service to Morawa I have referred the claims of the area for consideration to the Australian Broadcasting Control Board. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is the practice of the Post Office to provide public telephones at sites where they will be freely accessible to members of the community at all times and for this reason they are usually located at Post Offices and on public thoroughfares. It is unlikely that many householders would agree to the establishment of public telephones within their properties because of the resultant inconvenience which would be caused to them by persons wanting to use the facilities. Indeed, even with public telephones located on streets, complaints are often received from nearby residents that they are disturbed by people using the facilities. 
The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
Tenders were invited for the supply and installation of a television and telephony system for the East-West route. Tenders were not invited for the installation of the national television station at Kalgoorlie. This work was undertaken by departmental staff. 
Fourteen tenders were received for complete systems. Nine offered radio systems, four offered coaxial cable systems, one offered a submarine cable system. The names of tenderers are regarded as confidential and are not published. Tenders were received from manufacturers in Australia, United Kingdom, Germany, Italy, Canada, Japan and Holland. 
This information is treated as confidential between the tenderer and the Department and is not for publication. Tenderers submitted prices for the supply and installation of their own equipment. 
The tender of G.E.C. (Australia) Pty Ltd was accepted for the supply and installation of a complete radio relay system, including the radio equipment, towers, shelters and power plant. The tender was accepted because it was the lowest suitable tender received. 
No. The company have had considerable experience in the supply and installation of radio relay equipment in other parts of the world but not in Australia. 
I thought that the statement made yesterday by  Mr Gowan,  who was representing commercial television interests, suggested that colour television should not be implemented before 1974. I did indicate some 2 or 3 weeks ago to honourable members that the Broadcasting Control Board, which has the authority in relation to colour television, had sought the assistance of the industry on standards and other technical matters, and that it was in the process of considering the answers to a very long questionnaire. In due course it will report to me and I will report to the Government. Until that takes place there will be no decision on the introduction of colour television into Australia. 
From memory, I think it Was towards the end of 1968 that a new policy of assistance to rural producers in the installation of telephone services was determined. That policy caused the Government to make advances to those who had fairly substantial costs in relation to partly privately erected lines with a requirement on the part of the individual to repay a minimum of $100 or 10% per annum plus interest at the long-term bond rate. I know of no variation in policy since that decision was taken. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Defence Act to provide that the pay and annual allowances payable to the  Chairman,  Chiefs of Staff Committee, the Chief of Naval Staff, the Chief of the General Staff and the Chief of the Air Staff shall be such as the Parliament provides. This amendment will mean that the provision for the payment of pay and annual allowances for these officers will be similar to that provided for officers of the First Division in the Public Service. Section 30 of the Public Service Act 1922-1968 provides: 
Officers of the First Division shall be paid such salaries and annual allowances as the Parliament provides.' 
The Defence Act enables the GovernorGeneral to make regulations providing for and in relation to the fixing of the rates of pay of members of the defence forces who are paid for their services. As with other members of the defence force the rates of pay of the  Chairman,  Chiefs of Staff Committee, and the Chiefs of Staff are prescribed in the Military Financial Regulations, the Naval Financial Regulations and the Air Force Regulations. When the decision was taken to extend to these officers the payment of the annual allowances, action was taken to authorise the payment by amendments to the Military Financial Regulations, the Naval1 Financial Regulations and the Air Force Regulations. In its 27th Report, the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances has recommended the disallowance of these amending regulations on the grounds that: 
It is doubtful if they are properly authorised under the regulation-making power of the Statutes and therefore if they are in accordance with their relevant Statutes; and 
Apart from any previous regulations which may have been issued under the regulation making power of the Statute, the provision of this annual allowance is not an administrative detail but an important innovation more appropriate to substantive legislation. 
The Government's legal advisers are satisfied that the regulations are within the regulation making power of the Statutes. But the Government nevertheless accepts that there is merit in providing specifically by substantive legislation for appropriation by the Parliament of both pay and annual allowances for these officers on a similar basis to that provided for Permanent Heads of departments who are, of course, officers of the First Division of the Public Service. This amendment will come into operation on a date to be proclaimed by the GovernorGeneral. This will permit necessary consequential amendments to the Services Financial Regulations to be made concurrently. I comend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Patterson)  adjourned. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The delays in commencing the television service at Kalgoorlie arose from malfunctioning of both the television transmitting equipment at the microwave radio terminal at Kalgoorlie and the frequency translating equipment installed at Peter Hill. The faults existing in sections of the equipments after installation caused interference patterns in the picture, objectionable noise in the sound, and a reduction in the radiated signal power. 
These faults were caused by a combination of intermittent contact failures and incorrect adjustment of some variable elements of the equipment circuits combined with the effects of the high temperatures experienced in Kalgoorlie at the time. The responsibility for the faulty equipment rests with the contractor. 
The Department's direct additional costs were between $4,500 and $5,000. The question of recovering costs under the provisions of the contract is being pursued by the Department. Additional costs were also incurred by the contractor who arranged for material and technical assistance to be provided from overseas at his own expense to assist in correcting the deficiencies. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. In his application for employment  Mr Jones  certified that he had not been found guilty or convicted of a criminal, policy, traffic or other offence and that he understood that if any answer to the questions on the application form for employment were found to be untrue he was liable to dismissal.  His  services were terminated as from the cessation of his shift on 3rd February 1970. 
Yes. In a later application for reemployment dated 9th February, 1970,  Mr Jones  listed ten offences of which he had been found guilty by a Court of Law in Australia. These offences included convictions for assault, resisting arrest, indecent language, malicious damage, possession of an irritant liquid and trespass to premises. 
All of the offences listed by  Mr Jones  on 9th February, 1970, relate to his anti-Vietnam and anti-conscription activities. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (3) Norseman and Esperance are among 38 areas in which national stations are to be established throughout the Commonwealth in the Seventh Stage of television development which 
I announced on 15 May 1969. When making this announcement I indicated that this stage of development would be implemented over a four year period to 1972/73. At present the technical planning of the stations is being undertaken as expeditiously as possible but 1 am not yet able to provide details of the completion dates of the various stations concerned. However, I will make a statement on the matter when the necessary information is available to me. In regard to Leonora and Mount Magnet, these are among a large number of remote areas in respect of which it has not yet been possible to evolve plans for the provision of television service. The Honourable Member will appreciate the difficulties having regard to the locations of the two places he has mentioned. Leonora is some 130 miles from Kalgoorlie and Mount Magnet is some 200 miles from Geraldton. Unfortunately, there are complex problems both technical and as to costs in respect of the provision of television to the areas to which I have referred, including the centres mentioned by the Honourable Member. I can only note the Honourable Member's interest in the provision of television in Leonora and Mount Magnet but I am not able to hold out any prospects in the matter at present. 
I have not seen the open letter referred to by the honourable member for McMillan and therefore am unable to comment on the detail given in it. The extension of television or radio is a matter for Government decision. The Australian Broadcasting Control Board constantly informs me, and I inform the Government, of matters related to these areas and from time to time the Government conies to a decision. The Government has not altered its earlier decision, which I announced to the House and have confirmed on several occasions, about frequency modulation broadcasting. 
I think that the short answer to the honourable gentleman's question is yes. This system has been developed throughout the Western countries to avoid a good deal of the cost associated with the implementation of trunk calls. The Post Office and other telephone organisations in Western countries have adopted the principle that on complaint an automatic check shall be made. It is not for me to indicate publicly the type of check which is made within the telecommunications area to detect a person who is using a wrong number. Upon reasonable proof being furnished there is immediate cancellation of an incorrect charge. I cannot say more than that at this time other than to repeat that if this system were not in operation the costs associated with trunk telecommunications would be much higher and trunk charges would have to be increased to cope with them. 
Questions shall not be asked which reflect on or are critical of the character or conduct of those persons whose conduct may only be challenged on a substantive motion, and notice must be given of questions critical of the character or conduct of other persons. 
Do you interpret that to mean that a person who has pleaded guilty to defalcations amounting to S5m and has been sentenced to 20 years imprisonment is free from criticism in this Parliament? 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Low powered national television stations have been authorised for Woomera and Ceduna as part of a plan to extend the national television service to a further 38 areas of the Commonwealth. I announced this 7th stage of television development in May 1969. It is intended to implement this new stage of development over a 4 year period to 1972-73. There is no present proposal for the establishment of a television service at Streaky Bay. The stations in the 7th stage which comprises remote areas, will of necessity be low powered stations and they could not be expected to provide service to any significant area beyond the centres of population in which they will be established. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Although STD calls to subscribers of a manual exchange are allowed, the switching of these calls through a manual exchange to another exchange is not permitted because there is a risk of incorrect charging and. with such switching, calls could fail under certain conditions. 
This instruction relates to calls to subscribers who are directly connected to the particular manual exchange listed. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is a fact that in New South Wales, Victoria and Queensland the increases have not yet been paid to all staff; approximately 9,000 (23%) remain to be paid in New South Wales, 6,400 (23%) in Victoria and 5,300 (36%) in Queensland and these are expected to be processed within six weeks. In Western Australia and Tasmania payments have been completed and all payments will be effected in South Australia on pay-day 23rd April. The increases, details of which were advised by the Public Service Board on 16lh February, 1970, affect the annual salary/wage entitlement of all staff employed in the Department; this involves some 40,000 in New South Wales alone. The associated superannuation contribution payable by the majority of permanent staff is also subject to variation. Apart from problems arising from the complexity of the adjustments and their volume particularly in New South Wales, Victoria and Queensland, the lime available for processing the normal fortnightly pay has been reduced by public holidays which in turn has restricted processing of the increases during this period. Every effort is being made to process the remaining entitlements as quickly as possible. The pay section staff has been supplemented by staff from other areas and extensive overtime is being worked. 
Adjustments for time off duty without pay is a regular action in the normal fortnightly pay preparation procedure and does nol involve variation to annual salary/wages or rate of superannuation contribution. Employees involved in a workstoppage during February approximated 14% of total staff and normally the necessary deductions would be effected within 2 pay periods. However, due to the additional work load existing at this time deductions have not been completed in the usual time. In New South Wales they will not be finished until mid-May. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There is now no basic wage prescribed in Federal Awards or Determinations. For purposes of answering the Question, the average has been taken of the minimum wages prescribed by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in respect of the various States of the Commonwealth. This figure at present is $42.40 per week. 
To answer the question on the basis of actual salaries presently applicable would involve the scrutiny of thousands of pay cards decentralised throughout the Commonwealth. However, Departmental employees receive annual increments and adults generally attain the maximum of their salary range within a relatively few years. Therefore maximum attainable rates for adult males, which can more readily be ascertained, have been used in answering the question. 
On the foregoing basis, the following details are given in answer to the question. 
No Departmental employees receives less than the minimum wage. 
No Departmental employees receive a margin of: 
less than $1.00. 
between $1.00 and S2.00. 
between $2.00 and $3.00. 
between $3.00 and $4.00. 
between $4.00 and $5.00. 
The following are particulars in respect of the remaining parts of the question: 
between 55.00 and $6.00. 2  Sandblasters 
between $6.00 and $7.00 1974 Cleaners. Labourers, Watchmen 1245 Lines Assistant* Grade 1 
between $7.00 and $8.0(1 125 Garage Allen Jams, Gardeners Grade I, Lift Attendants 
between $8.00 and $9.00 15 Polishers 
between $9.00 and $10.00  1657 Lines Assistants Grade 2 4 Miscellaneous 
between $10.00 and $15.00  6066 Linemen Grade ) 341 Storemen  181 Workshops Assistants Grade  2  297 Miscellaneous 
between $15.00 and $20.00 6024 Postmen and Postal Officers Grade 1 1060 Clerical Assistants Grade  2  817 Motor Drivers 220 Senior Storemen 174 Miscellaneous 
It has been found that generally very few telegraph messages are made over the weekend and in a city such as Cairns where there are probably not more than 4 or 5 messages this would not justify the costs associated with maintaining staff on full time duty during the weekend, particularly from late evening till early morning. The arrangement is that telegrams are transmitted but there is an additional charge, which I think is 15 cents or less depending on the cost of the trunkline call to the area from which the telegrams are being sent. I think that having regard to the circumstances of the Post Office as a business undertaking this is a very reasonable arrangement in the interests of the Australian public. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Subscribers involved in providing or upgrading private sections of line to prescribed standards beyond distances where Departmental construction ends have the choice of having the Post Office or a private contractor do the work, or doing it themselves. If the Post Office does the work, subscribers have (and often take) the opportunity to reduce their expenditure to varying degrees by assisting with either labour or materials. With the several alternatives offering to subscribers as outlined above, coupled with the subscribers having the right to choose between aerial and cable construction and since the number of subscribers on a common route, nature of the terrain, etc., all bear on the cost factor, it is not possible to estimate the effects of providing a 30% subsidy. 
At 28th March, 1970, there were 2,650,717 services in operation. Instruments connected totalled abut 3.75 million. 
Papua and New Guinea: Ex-Servicemen's Credit Board (Question No. 730)  Mr Whitlam  asked the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
When was the Ex-Servicemen's Credit Board established in the Territory of Papua and New Guinea. 
What are the names and positions of the persons who have constituted the Board. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Carnarvon, Dampier and Port Hedland are among 36 areas for which low powered television stations were authorised last year. Preliminary work associated with the establishment of these stations, which includes technical surveys in each of the areas concerned, is proceeding as expeditiously as possible. I am not yet able to provide details of the completion dates of the various stations but as soon as a firm timetable for the completion of the stations can be arrived at I intend to make a statement. 
Armed Services: Re-engagement of Servicemen (Question No. 288) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The size of the audience varies in accordance with public interest in the subjects being discussed and! in the time of broadcast. The latest audience ratings indicate however that the maximum regular audience for Parliamentary broadcasts is less than 1% of the adult population in the areas in which these broadcasts are received, i.e. approximately 60,000 people. 
The  answer  to the honourable member's  question is  as follows: 
Generally, undue delay does not occur in the provision of public telephones. However, once orders are issued for an installation, some time necessarily elapses according to the location concerned, the availability of installation staff, the need for co-ordination with electricity authorities, and other factors. 
Material supply problems have not in general been a determining factor but some short term problems have occurred largely due to the need for public telephones to be repaired or rebuilt following damage by vandals. Moreover, certain types of installations are being withdrawn temporarily for modification to minimise the effects of vandalism. 
A United Kingdom firm, Associated Automation Ltd, is the supplier of the multi-coin unit. AH outstanding orders have been satisfied. 
The Sydney Postal Workshop supplies local call units. Of 1,520 presently on order, 677 have been delivered. The remainder are expected to come forward at about 200 a month. 
Postal Workshops in Melbourne and Brisbane supply the cabinets. On the present order for 2,480 delivery has commenced. 
The progress of contracts is kept under constant review to ensure that no avoidable delays occur. 
The policies of the Government are under review constantly. The present policy relating to rural exchanges was determined some 18 months ago. The new policy determined at that time allowed the subscriber terms for paying the amount due. It is very difficult, in answer to a question, to go into the details of the basis on which that policy was determined. I shall not try to cross every 'f and dot every i!, but briefly it may be said that there is an average cost to the Post Office of the installation of telephones. An allowance is made in relation to rural exchanges and that amount, multiplied by the number of persons living along a particular route, determines the actual length of the cable or line installed by the Post Office. Those people who live beyond that point must make their own contribution on a part privately erected basis. 1 appreciate that there are problems for individuals. There are problems also for the Post Office. It must be realised that the Post Office is charged with being a business undertaking. It is responsible for covering its costs by the revenue it obtains and it also pays interest on the money it borrows from the Treasury. This is the equitable basis on which the Government has made a determination to charge. As I said, a review is made from time to time and no doubt I will look at the matter raised by the honourable member the next time this policy is reviewed. 
Within the Postal Department there is a continuous review of post offices to determine whether they should be classified as official or nonofficial. I would not believe that there has been any reduction of post offices to nonofficial status as a result of the movement of population from drought stricken areas. Rather I believe that over a considerably long period, and applying the general 

 Questions 1 779 formula used, it has been shown that there has been a permanent movement of population and a permanent reduction of the work performed at the particular post offices about which the honourable member is concerned. In those circumstances I do not think it would be necessary to have a special review when the drought ends. Any review will be part of the review which takes place constantly within the administration. 
As I have indicated to the House on a number of occasions, the Government regards as its first responsibility the provision of broadcasting and television facilities for all the people in this country. 
At the present time there are quite a number of areas in Australia which do not have a proper reception either of broadcasting or television. Many of these are outback areas of the larger States. The introduction of frequency modulation broadcasting would of course be an expensive operation. There is no doubt that with this system there is high fidelity of sound, avoidance of static and so on, and that there are a large number of channels available in the ultra high frequency range. As to the economic aspects, from the point of view of cost to the producer, the cost of establishment of stations, the cost to the individual who would purchase a set and the number who would purchase a set. I cannot express a view. It has been indicated to me that there is considerable doubt about the economics, and that has been the experience in other countries. The situation would be more doubtful here in Australia. 
I thought I was answering the question. That is what I propose to do. 
I understand that there was such a news item at 10 p.m. and 11 p.m. last night on Channel 9 in Melbourne. 
I can make no comment other than to express the hope it may not have been correct or that the use of this substance will not be a stimulus to the spilling of real blood during Moratorium demonstrations today. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The attached statement contains details ot the applications made to the Minister since 1st September 1969 for approval of changes in the beneficial ownership of shares in companies holding licences for commercial television stations and changes in the memoranda and articles of association of such licensee companies. 
I think the funny aspect of this matter is that great doubt exists in my mind whether we would find somebody capable of seeing through the eyes of everybody or listening through the ears of everybody with respect to such programmes. 
by leave -  Mr Speaker,  on the 7th May last, in an answer to a question by the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner),I  indicated preparedness to ask the Australian Broadcasting Control Board to hold a public inquiry in relation to frequency modulation broadcasting in Australia and that I would announce the terms of reference within a few days. I now advise honourable members that I have made a request to the Australian Broadcasting Control Board in the following terms: 
The Minister, pursuant to his powers under Section 18 (2) of the Broadcasting and Television Act 1942-1969, directs the Australian Broadcasting Board to hold an inquiry in accordance with the provisions of Division 3 of Part 11 of the Act into the desirability or otherwise of introducing frequency modulation broadcasting into the Com monwealth. The inquiry should embrace all the technical and economic factors involved having regard particularly to any existing shortcomings in the broadcasting services, and to the experience of overseas countries which are making use of frequency modulation services. As soon as possible after the conclusion of the inquiry, the Board shall make a report and recommendation to the Minister. 
While the report will be made to me it is my intention to make the report available to honourable members and the public subsequent to its receipt by me. 
I have not had my attention drawn to the matters to which the honourable member refers, but it would seem to me almost impossible to produce certain television programmes without some public advertisements appearing. I think particularly in terms of the sporting programmes of the Australian Broadcasting Commission which are telecast from showgrounds and sporting grounds and which cover national championships of one type and another. As an illustration 1 mention the national tennis championships. Obviously around the courts are advertisements relating to tennis racquets, tennis balls and similar articles. I do not know how it would be possible to televise such an event without these advertisements being seen on the screen. 
Many people commend public affairs programmes on television. I appreciate that there are others who have extreme views about various types of programme, but it would be impossible to give a proper coverage of the programme content without some advertisements appearing on the screen. The honourable member has been, to me, a frequent protester about the ABC. I felt that it would be desirable that he, and others who are greatly critical, should have a discussion with the  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. I endeavoured to arrange such a discussion and I understand an invitation was issued to the honourable member but that he was not prepared to accept it. While there is criticism of the ABC, I feel that much of it flows from some of the proverbial hares which are released by members of the Press gallery. Sometimes they are picked up by other members. Sometimes they are released to many newspapers in Australia and much of the criticism that flows, flows because of that criticism. I am reminded that recently there was a complaint by  Mr Cowan,  who is the Director of FACTS - that is, the Federation of Australian Commercial Telecasting Stations - in relation to a programme on Fiji which apparently advertised some overseas airline. The suggestion was that the ABC crew had used that airline to get to Fiji. In fact, it did not. It seems to me that in much of this particular area there is unjustifiable criticism. I am always prepared to take a matter up with the ABC. I am prepared to discuss any aspect with any honourable member, not on the basis of interfering with the ABC but at least asking for explanations which I believe the community is entitled to have. 
 I think twice during this session of Parliament I have answered a question similar to this. I have nothing more to add to the previous answers I have given. 
The answer to the honour able member's question is as follows: 
Applications for licences for 8 television repealer stations have been received. 
Queensland-Weipa 
Northern Territory-Groote Eylandt 
Western Australia-Dampier, Karratha, Mt Tom Price, Newman and Yampi Sound (Cockatoo and Koolan Islands). 
All the licence applications have been' approved. 
 The answer to the hon ourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. It is proposed to transfer the Belmore and Belfield postmen to the Campsie Post Office when the new building is completed in two or three years lime. 
(a) The Belfield postmen are now located some distance away from the controlling post office and the move will bring them under the supervision of the Postmaster, Campsie. It will also enable capital expenditure on the Belmore building to be deferred for some years and will provide better accommodation for the postmen from both centres. The change is designed to achieve more economical and efficient operating arrangements and the existing standard of delivery service to the public will be maintained. 
The transfer will up-grade the position in charge of the postmen at Campsie but the "in charge" allowance at present paid to a postman at Belfield and also at Belmore will be withdrawn. In regard to travelling time, if the present nine postmen are still stationed at these centres when the change takes place, three postmen would benefit, one would take the same time, and five would travel one railway station  or  bus section further. Fares for five would stay the same, three would pay SO cents a week more and one would pay 84 cents a week more. If the move causes hardship to any postman, consideration would be given at the time to a transfer to any vacancy at a post office closer to his home, if desired. In addition, consideration may be given under the Public Service Regulations to payment of excess fares for a settling in period. 
Only the Belmore Post Office is likely to be affected and this will probably be reduced by one grade. 
From time to time the Department has had a number of representations for the results sought by the honourable member to be achieved. It is necessary in making some statement about it to make certain prognostications which could be quite inaccurate. At the moment the ratio of local calls to trunk calls is approximately 14 to 1. It would be impossible for one to indicate to what degree the number of calls will continue in both areas on the basis which the honourable member has suggested. If one were to assume that the same number of local and trunk calls would be made, it is estimated that 10c would be the local call charge. But it is believed within the department, and I think with justification, that if a charge of that nature were applied there would be a considerable increase in the number of long distance calls which at the moment are trunk calls and a considerable reduction in the number of local calls made by subscribers. Therefore it would seem necessary to adjust the figure of 10c to which I have referred to take into account these variations. 
There is another very important factor in relation to this. The telephone system in Australia has been developed on the basis of the variation of charges. To go to a single charge basis throughout Australis would mean a good deal of capital investment to improve the trunk switching facilities to enable those making trunk calls to have them as local calls. At the same time quite a substantial part of the equipment which is associated with the local call would become redundant because of an expected reduction in calls. Australia has a system which is similar to that used in, I believe, all the Western countries of the world. We have tried to rationalise as best we are able to meet the Australian circumstances. We have reduced the number of charging distances very considerably in comparison with, say, New Zealand which I think has 14, Canada which has 26 or 27 and the United States of America which has 46 or 47. Of course, to have these substantial increases in the number of calling distances means a great deal of extra work within the telephone system and this is a very expensive type of operation. I would believe that there is no prospect of the proposal made by the honourable member being acceded to in Australia because of some of the problems I have mentioned and many others which I have not indicated in answer to this question. 
A meeting attended by myself and the Minister for Education and Science on behalf of the Commonwealth, and by State Ministers for Education, was held late last year to discuss educational television. Technical experts indicated to that meeting that a great deal of development was taking place in this area of television. At that time Ministers believed it was desirable not to proceed, apart from the expenditure of a little more money, beyond the point which the Australian Broadcasting Commission had attained in relation to educational television. At the present time a system known as EVR, which I think stands for electronic video recorder, is being developed and might become available for use in various schools. Tapes for this system could be made available by some authority in Australia - perhaps the Australian Broadcasting Commission. Until we have further discussions and there appears to be unanimity between the State Ministers and the Commonwealth any further expansion in this area of educational television is not likely. 
The honourable member will know that the Australian Broadcasting Commission has almost complete autonomy in relation to its programming. I therefore am not kept informed from day to day as to who participates in the public affairs programmes of the ABC. 1 will obtain such information as 1 can in answer to the honourable member's question and let him have that information. 
The legislation under which the Australian Broadcasting Commission operates was passed by this House and it is quite competent for this House to alter the charter of the Commission if it so desires. But I think if we reflect on the responsibility which might be reposed in a government or a Minister we would quickly come to the conclusion that it would be undesirable for an individual to have full responsibility in determining who should or should not participate in programmes on the ABC. I think it would be to the disadvantage of the community generally Whenever a honourable member of this House has asked me whether T would obtain a copy of a script used on the ABC 1 have been able to obtain it and make it available to him. I am prepared to continue to make such requests to the Commission at any time an honourable member asks me to do so. If the honourable member for Evans desires to have the script to which he refers I will obtain it and give it to him. Tt can be made available to honourable members of this House and they can make their own judgment as to its value or otherwise in the interests of the Australian community. 
I think it might be expected of the Leader of the Opposition that he would authenticate the statements that he makes to the Parliament. What he has put into the Parliament flows out of a fog of journalism which descended upon Canberra last night, which is still with us this morning and which is purely speculative. I therefore have no further comment to make. 
I think that some aspects of this question might more properly have been directed to the Minister for Labour and National Service. As I understand the position, an application was lodged, in the normal course, with the Public Service Board and an appeal was made to the Full 
Bench of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. The claim made by the Professional Officers Association concerning engineers was rejected by the Commission. If the engineers believe that they have new material which is pertinent to a claim for increased wages, they have the right to approach the Public Service Board again with a claim. 
As to the other questions that the honourable member has asked about engineers in the Post Office, it is fair to say that with the technological developments that have taken place in recent times there is a shortage of engineers in many areas of industry in Australia. The Post Office is short of engineers not because we do not have more engineers now than we had 12 months ago but because there has been an increase of no less than 23.5% in the demand rate for telephones in the 10 months to April last. The honourable member will appreciate that as a result a tremendous work load is developing within the Post Office in relation to telephone installations. The shortage of engineers relates to the increased work load rather than to a reduction in their numbers compared with the previous 12 months. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The 'Four Corners' programme referred to included a filmed report of Duntroon facing the 70's and purporting to be in the context of the Fox Committee Report. 
Yes. 
No. Two segments were added. They were - 
Commonwealth Film Unit footage on training, made available by the Department of the Army. 
A visual reconstruction of the minor forms of bastardisation. 
In 3 (a) as above the roles were played by College Cadets. In 3 (b) as above the role was played by an actor employed by the A.B.C. 
No. 
The actor employed by the A.B.C. (mentioned in answer (4) above) was  Mr Robin  Prokop. He was paid $16.01. 
The answers to questions (1) to (6) appear to provide the pertinent information. 
J have not had a report from the Australian Broadcasting Commission in relation to this matter nor indeed did F seek one in view of the explanation made by the Victorian manager of the ABC in the daily news media. Whether there was actual monitoring at the point of time when this tape was played I could not say. 
I think this was probably a case of human error rather than an intention on the part of any pe-son to create sabotage, and I am pleased nevertheless that the result of the election showed confidence in the Premier without the most current television tape. 
1 think it inappropriate at question time to endeavour to develop a controversy between me and the Cha rman of the Austraiian Broadcasting Commission. 1 think I should say to the House and to the public that the document which I received came to me as a result of a statutory requirement that the ABC make its estimates available' to the PostmasterGeneral and that I. as the responsible Minister, should then communicate, if necessary with the Treasurer, that Cabinet would consider the estimates as it does the estimates of every department of government, that ' it would come to a decision and that when the Budget is presented in August the estimates would bc made available to the Pari anient. Following that there is a debate on the Budget, and a debate on the estimates. I would have thought that would be the appropriate time for me to offer any comments which I desired to make about the contents of the estimates, which must be regarded as preliminary in the state in which they are sent to mc and subject to the discussion which will be held in Cabinet and their availability in a public way through the Parliament. So that is the reason why F have no intention of entering into a discussion at this point of time in regard to this controversial matter. Would the honourable gentleman just remind me of the second part of his question? 
 I do not think there has been a reflection made by me on the integrity of officers of the ABC. There is no doubt that confidential information was leaked. I say (hat quite emphatically, and I am prepared to go further and say that this is a breach of integrity. It is a breach of the oath taken by members of the Public Service. Honourable members should remember that most officers of the ABC are permanent public servants under the Public Service Act. I have no intention - I say '.his quite deliberately - of participating in a discussion in relation to lack of integrity merely because somebody gives some information to the news media of this country. 
 I cannot be sure of the dates, relying on my memory, but I think that both the persons to whom the honourable member has referred have participated in Australian .Broadcasting Commission programmes. I offer only the additional comment in relation to bias .that I think one has to see through the minds of different people to understand whether in fact there is bias or there is not bias. On one occasion, I asked the ABC whether it would let me have a list, covering a 6-monthly period, of the people who had participated in its current affairs programmes in this way and the number of times each of those persons had participated. Having looked at the list and having shown it to a number of other people, I think the conclusion is that if there was any bias at all it was very, very marginal. 
I would have thought that the Leader of the Opposition would have understood the implications of my answer to a question in this House yesterday. I might say to him that I, together with my colleague the Minister for Education and Science and the State Ministers for Education, regard educational television as of tremendous importance and this aspect will be taken into consideration in the final determination of the estimates for the Australian Broadcasting Commission. - 
I think one of the outstanding features of this House is the difference in view between individual members. I think I am entitled to disagree, if I see that there is justification for so doing, with other honourable members or even with a committee of this Parliament. 
If I may take the latter part of the honourable members question first., he referred to this matter yesterday. ] remind him and other honourable members of some of the provisions of the Broadcasting and Television Act which relate to the Australian Broadcasting Commission. In the first place, the Parliament is required to determine the amount of money which is made available year by year for the expenditures of the Commission. There may be a mistaken view within the House and also in the community that the radio and television licence fees which are charged are adequate for the financing of the ABC. In the current year - that is the year which ends on 30th June next - the amount of licence fees will fall short of the total expenditure by Slim :ind this amount will be found from the normal taxation revenue. To this degree. I think it is recognised that the Government has a responsibility, as have Government departments, in determining the amount of money which is to be made available to the ABC. 
Secondly, there is in the Act a provision which gives me as Minister the right to prohibit or to require the showing of certain films. 1 say quickly that I have not exercised that right during my 61 years as Postmaster-General. That right has seldom been used in the history of this Parliament. Nevertheless, it exists. This authority is given to the Minister by the Parliament. Another requirement is that my approval must be obtained where expenditure in excess of $40,000 is proposed. In a Bill which 1 introduced on 4th March it is proposed that the amount be increased to $100,000. This approval is extended to cover contracts and leases beyond 5 years. I believe that these provisions enacted by the Parliament require me to exercise a judgment over the whole area of ABC expenditure. It may be that times have changed since the provision was first incorporated in the Broadcasting and Television Act. 
It is for honourable members to 'indicate whether they believe times have changed and whether they believe that I should have no responsibility in relation to programming at this stage. But having regard to the tremendous cost of programmes and acknowledging the requirements of the Act, I believe that I have a responsibility to accept or reject programmes. I repeat that I have not exercised that authority, but it exists. This is why in answer to questions I have said that the ABC has almost complete autonomy in programming. I stress, however, that as Minister I have a discretion under the Act. What I said when opening the staff rooms at North Sydney several years ago I believed, but times change. Total circumstances within the community, economic and otherwise, change. If 1 express a view, as I did recently, it is because with the effluxion of lime 1 have come to that view. As I said in reply to a question yesterday, when we come to debate the Estimates I may be prepared to make some comment about the matter. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Statistics ure not available of the number of subscribers who had the privately owned sections of their telephone lines upgraded during 1968. Revised conditions governing the provision and upgrading of privately owned sections of lines to Post Office specifications were introduced in 1969 and became fully operational during July of that year. Apart from the subscribers whose private sections of lines were completely replaced by Departmental construction, during the period JulyDecember 1969, 96 subscribers with private sections of lines accepted the new conditions for upgrading of their lines to Post Office specifications. 
It is not possible to estimate the number of subscribers whose private telephone lines will be upgraded from the present lime to the end of 1972. The number involved will depend on several factors such as the condition of the existing private sections of lines, the number of manual exchanges to be convened to automatic operation requiring the upgrading of some existing lines, the amount of Departmental construction which can be provided to serve existing subscribers and new applicants on conversion of manual exchanges to automatic working and the number of subscribers and applicants who will proceed under the revised conditions. 
Statistics are not available of the average length of private sections of lines which have been upgraded from the beginning of 1968 to the present time. 
See answer to (2) above. 
The costs associated with upgrading privately owned sections of lines are not maintained because these costs are the responsibilities of the subscribers concerned who have the option of having the Post . Ollice do the work on their behalf, carrying out the work themselves or employing a private contractor. Even when the Post Office does the work on behalf of the subscribers the cost can vary depending upon whether underground cable or aerial construction is used, the nature of the terrain and whether the subscriber contributes materials, labour or mechanical aids. Then, too, individual subscriber's costs are affected by the number of subscribers and/or applicants on a particular route. 
I do not think that what the honourable member suggests was in fact said or indicated by me in this House. I think it is acknowledged within the Australian community today that leakages do occur in many areas, and in relation to this particular matter that has been under discussion in the public area I said that there was a leakage. No doubt I did reflect on the integrity of a person, a person unknown to anyone but himself, and in that respect those who were not responsible for the leakage would not in any way regard my comments as reflecting on them. 
 Mr Speaker,  I am not in a position to indicate when colour television will be introduced in Australia. I have indicated to the House on several occasions that surveys were being made by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board in an endeavour to seek from industry what was necessary in relation to standards and technical requirements, and what is regarded as the time factor between the announcement and the actual date of introduction. When this information is made available to me I will bring it under the notice of the Government and a decision may at that point of time be taken. I have a responsibility in regard to radio and television; I have not a responsibility in regard to roads and beaches and the other things to which the honourable member referred. 
When Stage 7 of television is introduced 97.9% of Australians will have services available to them. That means that 2.1% of Australian people will not have the facility of television. Having regard to the fact that 54% of the Australian population is in 6 capital cities and having regard to the sparsity of population in the remaining area of Australia, I believe this will be a magnificent achievement. I understand that even in the United Kingdom - a much smaller area with a much larger population - a comparable percentage of people do not have television available to them. I have indicated previously my desire that the country people of Australia should have good facilities - as far as we can possibly make them available - particularly in regard to radio and television. This is my aim and it is the Government's aim. I shall continue to seek the co-operation of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board in bringing about this condition. 
 1  think there would be a lot of members in this House who would not be very interested in the televising of a rugby league match. The responsibility for selling the rights of the replay telecast of any football match rests with the organisation concerned. In this case it is the Australian rugby league organisation. As I understand the position, the rights have been sold to a commercial station for SI  5,000.  As a result a commercial station will telecast the replay in Brisbane. The Australian Broadcasting Commission is negotiating with the commercial station for the purchase of the rights for Queensland regional stations. I understand also thaI there will be replays  in  Sydney. I can give no further information. I assure honourable members that the ABC has done its best, with limited success to this moment. 
The answerto the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Broadcasting Control Board keeps all developments in connection with the technical means of distributing television programmes under study. The Board has not made any specific study of cable television of the nature referred to by the honourable member. 
There have been many studies overseas of cable television. However, the question of whether that system would be cheaper than conventional television could only be decided in relation to a specific situation. 
The availability of channels has not been a limiting factor on the provision of television in Australia. 
Yes, 1 will convey the honourable member's sentiment to the Australian Broadcasting Commission. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The new Division was formally established from 8th October 1969. It consists of 42positions comprising 24 positions transferredwitht heir occupants from the Management Serv ices Division, which was formerly responsible for industrial work, together with 18 new positions. 
Atotal of 36 staff is at present employed. The remaining 6 positions are in process ofbeing filled. Designations within the complete establishment are as indicated hereunder: 
 In answer to the first part of the honourable member's question I would say that I believe that every member of this House would regret (hat the public is being seriously inconvenienced by the actions of the Union of Postal Clerks and Telegraphists in stopping work on the last 2 Saturdays and by the decision of that' union at its meeting of Saturday last to continue rolling stoppages during this week. A great deal of inconvenience has bien caused. Looking into the future, 1 believe that the number of telegrams that will be sent through the Post Office system will be substantially reduced. What effect that is likely to have on future employment in this area is impossible to say. I know that the Department and the Public Service Board have spent a tremendous amount of time in discussions with all the unions associated with the Post Office. They do their best to come to what agreements they can. But some of these matters of course come within the responsibility of the Public Service Arbitrator and even the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. 
In relation to the claim for an increase of 6.6%. I point out that when the Australian Postal Workers Union was appearing before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission the Union of Postal Clerks and Telegraphists sought leave to intervene in order to lodge a claim. The Arbitration Commission gave the union permission to produce oral or written evidence. This was done and the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission decided against the Union claim for an increase of 6.6%. I believe that the Union has had every consideration by the Public Service 
Board, the Public Service Arbitrator and also the Commission. The result has been that since 1st January last year, in the minimum area of wage levels for this union there have been increases of between 12.6% and 17.2% and in the maximum levels, between 12.6% and 14.4%, excluding the 3% derived from the national wage case. I understand that this means in total a rise of $580 to $600 in the maximum area. 
The other point of dispute - or so it is said to be - is the 5-day week. I would say to the House that confusion has been put into the minds of people in relation to what is  a  5-day week. In some areas this means work from Monday to Friday inclusive, with no work on Saturday or Sunday. In this area it is intended to be a 5-day week within the concept of an essential service working .7 days a week. There has been  a  good deal of discussion about this arrangement. The Government determined that post offices in general must stay open on Saturday mornings to serve the Australian public. However, it was put to me by the Secretary and the  President  of the Union last week that indeed what should now happen is an extension of the hours on Fridays from 5 p.m. to 6 p.m., with adjustments in relation to Saturday morning work. When I pressed this matter a little further, believing that they were putting a suggestion for an extra hour on Friday and an hour less on Saturday, I discovered that really they were asking for a reduction of hours Monday to Thursday so that postal employees would have the extra hour available to them on Friday, and in addition there would be a reduction of from 1 hour to  H  hours on Saturday morning. That would mean that all Post Offices that now close at 10 a.m. or 10.30 a.m.- 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Commission has supplied the following information. 
Yes. 
Yes. 
Yes.  Mr Willesee  referred also to the crime rate in Australia, the enquiry into illegal abortions in Victoria, a book published in Western Australia about police killings in Australia, a survey about public confidence in the police in Queensland, and press comment about the N.S.W. Police. 
No.  Mr Willesee  was asked to identify one person. He could not give this information, because he did not know it. Only the producer of the film had the information. 

 Mr Willesee is employed on contract by the Australian Broadcasting Commission. 
to (9) Following the telecast of 2nd May, the A.B.C. made available to the N.S.W. Commissioner of Police a copy of the film seen on Four Corners'. I am informed that all journalists and comperes employed by the A.B.C. are fully aware of their obligations as employees of the A.B.C. and their responsibility as members of the Australian Journalists' Association to abide by the Association's code of ethics. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (8) As the honourable member will be aware, I announced on 7th May 1970, that there will be an inquiry by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board into frequency modulation broadcasting. From the terms of reference of the inquiry which I provided in my later statement on 14th May, the honourable member will appreciate that the type of matters which he has raised in this question will be encompassed by the inquiry. I have already indicated that I will in due course make the report of the Board available to honourable members and the public. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 

 Mr Speaker, my colleague the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  has referred in his Budget Speech to new postal, telegraph and telephone charges which are to be introduced from certain dates but principally on 1st October 1970. The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Post and Telegraph Rates Act in order to adjust certain postal and telegraph charges. There will be another Bill to deal with proposed variations in telephone charges and those variations which require amendment of the postal and telephone regulations. Simultaneously certain other miscellaneous charges will be adjusted by administrative action. All the proposed adjustments are detailed in the schedules now available to honourable members. With the concurrence of honourable members, I incorporate the schedules in Hansard. 

<graphic href="069131197008182_91_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="069131197008182_91_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="069131197008182_92_64.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="069131197008182_92_66.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="069131197008182_92_65.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="069131197008182_93_67.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="069131197008182_93_68.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="069131197008182_94_69.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="069131197008182_95_70.jpg"></graphic>

I shall now outline for the House the main variations proposed. Without an adjustment in charges the trading results for 1970-71 would show an anticipated loss of $llm made up of a loss in postal of S30m and a profit in telecommunications of $19m. This situation has developed as a result of increased wages of $58m in this current year, of which $45m will be a charge against trading operations. The proposals for increases in tariffs I am now presenting to the House are expected to provide about $42m in 1970-71 and $53m in a full year. The estimated overall profit for 1970-71 will then be $30m with S39m profit in telecommunications and a $9m loss in postal. The profit will be used in the expansion of Post Office facilities. 
Telegraph Services The public telegraph service is at present operating at a loss, estimated at about $5m a year. The present rate for ordinary telegrams is 36c for the first twelve words and 3c for each additional word. For urgent telegrams double the rate is charged. An increase of lc per word is proposed in the rate for ordinary telegrams bringing the charge to 48c for the first twelve words and 4c for each additional word. The urgent telegram rate will be double the new rate for ordinary telegrams. Notwithstanding these increases the public telegraph service will continue to operate at a loss. 
Telephone Services 
The current rentals for telephone exchange services do not nearly cover the recurring annual expenses borne by the Post Office in relation to the facilities provided and it is proposed that the existing rentals be increased throughout by $7 per annum. The one-third reduction in rentals which is given to blind persons and certain classes of pensioners will be maintained. In association with the adjustment to the rental charges, the service connection fees will be increased by SIO- from $30 to $40- -for new services and by $3--from $2 to $5- for in place' services, that is, services already in the premises which are taken over by the new occupant. 
Notwithstanding the heavy rises in costs since 1964, this will be the first occasion on which exchange service rentals and connection fees have been adjusted since that time. Certain other rentals for miscellaneous telecommunications facilities are also to be adjusted in the light of the need of those services to provide a better rate of return on investment. Typical of the services involved are intercommunication equipment and private branch exchanges. It is estimated that these variations to telecommunications tariffs will bring in additional revenue of about $24m in 1970-71, and $28m in 1971-72. 
Provision of Lines for Country Telephone Subscribers 
In order to bring the benefits of an automatic telephone service to country subscribers as quickly as possible, the Post Office is pressing ahead with the replacement of manual exchanges by automatic equipment. This, however, means that the private sections of country subscribers' exchange lines must be constructed to a higher standard than is acceptable for manual exchange working. Because of the need for good quality construction on private sections of exchange lines, the Government decided late in 1968 that it would assist subscribers concerned by making funds available for the purpose at the current long term bond rate and allow the subscribers to make repayments in instalments. Under these arrangements, minimum repayments are $100 a year plus interest and the maximum period over which repayments may be spread is 10 years. Moreover, normal maintenance on private sections of exchange lines constructed to departmental specifications is undertaken by the Post Office at its cost and subscribers are required to pay only for any necessary main items of replacement materials. Notwithstanding these funding and maintenance arrangements, country people located well out from their exchanges are finding the cost of private sections of good quality telephone exchange lines to be beyond their means, particularly where rural communities are facing a period of economic strain. 
The Government has therefore reexamined the policy relating to the provision of exchange lines for country telephone subscribers in the light of the more stringent construction standards necessary to enable a modern automatic telephone network to be extended effectively and economically in the interests of subscribers as a whole. The Government has decided that the Post Office will construct and wholly maintain all subscribers' telephone exchange lines from the appropriate exchange to each subscriber's premises. This will include line plant on subscribers' property. It has also been decided that the Post Office will bear more of the cost than it has been responsible for in the past. The Post Office will in future meet the cost up to a radial distance of 15 miles from the appropriate exchange, irrespective of the route distance of the line. This compares with the existing policy under which the Post Office provides line plant for varying distances from the exchange on a formula basis, the length of the 'departmental section' depending on the extent of development along the particular route. On average, 'departmental sections' of lines have been about 3i miles. Even in the case of subscribers who are located more than 15 miles radially from the exchange, the Post Office will still construct and maintain their exchange lines for the full distance. However, for the distance beyond 15 miles' radius, the subscribers concerned will be required, unconditionally, to pay for the line plant beyond that radius at a standard rate of $40 per radial quarter-mile. This should provide a clear and easily understood basis in the few cases where contributions are required from subscribers, and it will enable the Post Office to quote subscribers immediately on application without the need to prepare detailed estimates of actual line plant costs. In accepting responsibility for the full costs of maintaining lines beyond the 15 miles' radius, the Post Office will regard such lines as being its property. 
The revised conditions will be extended to upgrading or reconstructing private sections of existing subscribers' exchange lines as opportunity permits, particularly in association with the conversion of services to automatic operation. In addition, the revised conditions will apply retrospectively to subscribers who have either provided or upgraded private sections of their lines to full departmental specifications in accordance with the policy introduced on the 1st January 1969, to which I referred in a statement to the House on 28th November 1968. Officers of my Department will be in a position to deal with inquiries from interested subscribers or applicants within the next few weeks. 
Postal Services 

 Mr Speaker, I will now turn to the postal service. Increases in the charges for most postal services are proposed but, at the same time, new features are being introduced with the object of further improving the range and quality of services available to business and the public generally. It is expected that the increased charges will bring in $ 18.5m in 1970-71 and $25m in a full year. Three years have elapsed since the last increase in the basic postage rate. In that period, the wage rates payable to postal staff have been increased by an average of 29%. These have had a particularly adverse effect on the postal service because some 70% of its costs are associated with labour. Viewed in perspective, since 19S9 the basic postage rate will have risen by 45% compared with increases in postal wage rates of 100%. Naturally, the Post Office has been able to absorb some of these increases by improved productivity. In 1969-70, for example, postal staff rose only by 1.1% to cope with an increase of 6% in business. However, with estimated postal losses of $19m in 1969-70 and $30m in 1970-71, at current tariffs, a general tariff increase is unavoidable if rising costs are to be recovered. The tariffs proposed would reduce the estimated postal loss to $9m in 1970-71. Statements setting out the changes to postal rates in some detail have been circulated to honourable members but I propose to refer briefly to the more important of these. 
Letters and Postcards 
The existing rate of 5c for the first ounce will be increased to 6c. The incremental charge for each additional weight step will also be 6c, instead of 4c as at present but this increase will be offset to some extent by the combining of several weight steps to simplify the rate structure. The number of weight steps will be reduced from 7 to 5. This simplified structure is identical to that adopted recently by the Universal Postal Union. 
Other Articles 
The existing rates of 5c and 4c, for the first and successive weight steps respectively, will also be increased to 6c. The effect of introducing the simplified Universal Postal Union structure will be to reduce the number of weight steps from 5 to 4, by combining the present steps of 8 oz to 12 oz and 12 oz to 16 oz. 
Publications Registered at the GPO 
The existing general rate for registered Australian books, newspapers and periodicals of 5c for the first 6 oz and 4c for each additional 6 oz will become 6c for the first 6 oz and 5c for each additional 6 oz. The concession rates on registered newspapers and periodicals posted in bulk require special attention because of the substantial difference between present concession and normal printed matter rates and the resulting considerable loss involved. The annual loss on the 158 million copies posted by the 7,600 newspapers and periodicals registered is about $9m, half the estimated postal loss in 1969-70. About 75 million copies are charged between lc and lc and the overall average revenue from all registered newspapers and periodicals posted in bulk is only 1.7c. 
These concession rates represent, in effect, a substantial subsidy to the publishing and printing industry and to many organisations, ranging from religious, charitable and welfare organisations to social and recreational clubs. Whilst the fostering of a strong publishing and printing industry in Australia is important, this function is not appropriate for the Post Office. Similarly, the activities of the many organisations helped may be desirable, but again it is not the role of the Post Office to support religious denominations, charitable bodies, educational, scientific and technical institutions and the like. It is proposed, therefore, to continue the action taken in recent years, to reduce the extent of the concession. Newspapers and periodicals published by Commonwealth and State government departments and authorities will no longer be eligible for the general and bulk rates of postage for registered publications but will pay normal printed matter rates. 
Registered newspapers and periodicals published by religious, charitable and welfare organisations, consisting in substantial part of news, information and articles about their activities or about religious, charitable or welfare subjects; and by educational, scientific, technical and agricultural organisations whose principal object is the dissemination of knowledge, consisting in substantial part of news, information and articles on such subjects, will pay 6c for each 12 oz, on the total weight of the consignment, subject to a minimum per article charge of lc. This means that a registered newspaper or periodical of the above type weighing up to 2 oz will still be paying only lc postage per article compared with 6c at normal printed matter rates. These days lc pays only for15 seconds of a postman's or mail sorter's time, and any item must be handled a number of times between posting and delivery. 
The same rate of 6c for each 12 oz, on the total weight of the consignment, with a minimum per article charge of lc, will apply to newspapers and periodicals consisting in substantial part of news, information and articles about country subjects. The expression of this principle is included in paragraph 2 of Part 1 of the Schedule to the Bill shown as Category A, but is more clearly stated in the Schedules that are in the hands of honourable members. These newspapers and periodicals will have to satisfy certain conditions as regards circulation in country areas. This will be clarified in the second Bill mentioned in my opening remarks which will be available to honourable members before the second reading on this Bill is continued. 
Other registered newspapers and periodicals, including those published by professional, business, union, commercial, social, recreational and motoring organisations and associations will pay the following rates: 
For delivery from the office of posting - 1c first 2 oz c each additional oz. 
For delivery elsewhere - 2c first 2 oz c each additional oz up to 6 oz c each additional oz thereafter. 
The registered publications will still enjoy  a  substantial though reduced concession. 
The posting of registered publications to New Zealand and the domestic rates of postage is under discussion with the New Zealand Post Office. The Universal Postal Union Convent.on requires such special arrangements to be agreed to by the country of destination. In addition, from 1st July 1971, Australia will have to pay New Zealand an amount towards the cost of its internal handling of our mail, just as we in turn will be paid by other countries for our internal handling of their mail, where we receive more than we send. The amount payable to New Zealand per lb of mail will be not much more than the bulk rate. I will make a further statement on postings to New Zealand as soonas I am able. 
Similar conditions have applied on postings to Fiji but when Fiji becomes independent shortly the arrangements made in earlier days will be invalid. It is not considered that there are any logical grounds for treating Fiji differently to other countries in the area and it is proposed that the usual overseas rates will apply. The only other major postal administration still providing a domestic bulk rate for newspapers and periodicals is the United States of America, which incurs an annual loss of millions of dollars on this type of mail. 
Bulk Pre-sorted Mail 
The postage rates for letters, other articles and registered books posted under the bulk pre-sorted mail service will also be increased and will generally maintain their present relativity, in abolute terms, with full rates. Many customers are taking advantage of these lower rates and the Post Office is benefiting from the economies of higher mail volumes and compliance wish preparation, pre-sorting and other condition. The rates for bulk pre-sorted mail to New Zealand are also still under discussion with the New Zealand Post Office. 
Other Postal Adjustments 
Other variations, details of which are set out in the statement available to honourable members, will be effected by amendment of postal regulations or executive action. These variations include the commission on money orders, the minimum commission for which is being increased from 15c to 30c because of the substantial loss incurred on this service. The minimum charge proposed is the same as the charge commonly made by banks for a bank cheque where the remitter has no account. Postal orders can provide a suitable alternative to money orders in many cases, at less cost to the customer and the Post Office, and additional $9 and SIO postal orders will be introduced as soon as possible to widen the appeal of this service. Postal orders fees also need to be adjusted to cover the small loss experienced on these items and re-grouped to simplify counter operations. 
The rates for parcels posted to places within 30 miles will be increased by Se each and lighter weight intrastate parcels will be increased by the same amount in order to cover costs. 
When the fees for the clearance of private posting receptacles were adjusted in 1968, it was indicated that they did not cover costs. This is a very expensive service to provide, and parking problems in inner capital city areas are also accentuating the difficulties associated with this facility. As a further step to placing this facility on an economic basis, a doubling of the fees is proposed, except that clearances on holidays will cost the same as clearances on Sundays. 
The fees for the registered post, cashondelivery post, and messenger delivery service will rise. Special services such as these are particularly labour intensive and increases in their tariffs are required to ensure that costs are covered. 
Regarding overseas mail, the Tokyo Congress of the Universal Postal Union in 1969 made a number of changes to the categories and tariff structure of the International Post which have been embodied in the attached schedule, including: 
fewer and larger weight steps for heavier items; 
merging of the sample and phonopost categories into the small packets category; and 
abolition of reply paid postcards. 
The basic letter rate for overseas surface mail are being increased by 2c to 7c for British Commonwealth, Asian and Oceanic countries and 9c for other countries. A substantial loss is incurred on international mail and this would continue to exist even after the introduction on 1st July 1971 of the payments by other countries of amounts towards the cost of our internal handling of the imbalance in the quantity of overseas mail received as against overseas mail dispatched. 
Comparative international rates in overseas countries, expressed in Australian currency are: 
Britain: 8c (4.5c for British Commonwealth countries) 
Canada: 10c (5c for British Commonwealth countries) 
France: 13c 
Germany: 12c 
United States: 12c 
The relativity of the upper weight steps to the basic rates is fixed under the Universal Postal Union Convention. As far as the general public is concerned, the increase in the letter rates will have relatively little effect as the most common form of surface communication overseas is greeting cards, which may be sent at the 6c printed papers rate proposed, and aerogrammes which are unchanged at 10c but which will shortly be increased by more than 20% in writing area. 
New Services 
Two new services are to be introduced as part of our programme for meeting the changing postal needs of the business community, government organisations, and the general public. The White Paper T have just presented to Parliament contains details of our progress in the last 12 months in such fields as priority paid mail, parcel post, philately, and customer advisory services. From 1st October 1970, under a new international service, printers and publishers who have bulk consignments of printed matter, such as magazines and books, for the one address will be able to send them by surface mail in direct bags at 30c per 2 lb. provided they weigh between 22 lb and 60 lb. This will be much more convenient and reliable for customers who at the present time must break such consignments up into separate packets and parcels and forward them separately. The service will be known as 'Printpost Direct Bags'. Up to this point, the Post Office has not provided a competitive domestic air parcels service because the norma! airmail fee of 3c  peT  ounce has been added to the surface parcel rate to arrive at an airmail parcel rate. This has resulted in such high rates, compared to the airlines' parcels service, that virtually no business has been obtained. 
New tariffs for air parcels have been developed which are closely related to distance. A 'per lb' basis of charging, with a minimum charge, as we have for interstate surface parcels, is proposed, for each 4 zones which are based on air route distances. The zones and tariffs proposed are: 
Zone 1 (0-500 miles) 20c per lb: minimum charge 80c. 
Zone 2 (501-1,000 miles) 35c per lb: minimum charge 90c. 
Zone 3 (1,001-1,500 miles) 45c per lb: minimum charge 90c 
Zone 4 (1,501 miles and over) 65c per lb: minimum charge 90c. 
These charges are cheaper - in many cases much cheaper- than the present charges for airmail parcels except for very heavy parcels in Zone 4 where the charges are fractionally higher because it is desired to have the new rates per lb expressed in multiples of 5c for ease of working. 
The new service will be introduced on a progressive basis, beginning with the capital cities and the larger provincial centres served by air, on 1st January 1971. Further routes covering other provincial centres served by air will be included as the necessary arrangements are made. On routes not included in the zones for the time being, the present airmail fee of 3c per ounce rounded off to  50c.  nr lb will be applied to parcels for which air conveyance is required. Priority Paid parcels will be charged an additional fee of 30c. 

 Mr Speaker, the Post Office is an integral part of the community and is subject to the same pressures in relation to wage variations, increasing costs of services, materials and so on. Awards announced last year will add $58m to the total Post Office wages bill. This is mo&lt;-e than 10% of total wage payments to staff. Such a situation makes it impossible to absorb costs and creates a circumstance whereby increased charges are inevitable unless the Post Office is to totally disregard business considerations. There can hardly be disagreement that prices generally in the community have an upward trend, and the consumer price index reflects this. I have had a look at some individual charges for well-known services in the community and find a similar pattern of increase over the past 10 years. For instance the labour charge for repairs to home appliances, motor vehicles, etc., has gone up by more than 60%; taxi, rail, bus and tram fares have averaged increases above 40% and some daily newspapers have gone up by 40%. A look at the movement in typical fees for basic professional services has shown rises of 40% to 60%. In common with business generally we have found no means of avoiding revision of charges from time to time. However, rises in our charges have been moderate over the past 10 years when viewed against the backdrop of increases in the business and professional fields. 
The view is held in some quarters that all the financial problems of the Post Office would be solved by converting it to a statutory authority. In this regard, I must say that the British Post Office which recently changed from Department of State to corporation status has found itself faced with similar problems to those confronting the Austraiian Post Office. 
On the telecommunications side, telephone rentals, the service connection fee, and some local and trunk call charges have been increased in Britain this year. The increases were designed to provide sufficient revenue in the telecommunications service to achieve a financial return of 10% before interest on net assets against the previous target of 8i%. Tn Australia, the return on net assets, before interest, in the telecommunications field in 1969-70 was only 51%. 
Honourable members may be interested to know that a businessman in Britain has had his telephone rental increased from $A34 to SA52 and a previous service connection fee of $A43 has been increased to SA54. These are typical of increases made in other telecommunications charges in Britain during 1970. 
These steps were taken so that the telecommunications service in Britain could conduct its affairs on the lines of an efficient commercial undertaking in seeking an adequate return on invested capital - to ensure an adequate investment programme to effect improvements in service, and so that its capital investment programme should be of sufficient stability to permit effective long-term planning. 
Many honourable members will have read recently of the problems being encountered by the American Telephone and Telegraph Company - operators of the Bell Telephone System. In its efforts to keep pace with rising demand for telephone service and increasing costs, the quality of service in a number of major cities has severely declined. Massive quantities of capital are required to meet expanded demands for service. Much of the new capital required by the Bell System companies in 1969 was raised by debt financing and at the end of 1969 debt represented some 39% of total Bell System capital. This compares with the situation in the Australian Post Office where 98% of capital is financed by longterm debt. 
Turning to the postal side, the proposed basic postage rate of 6c would compare favourably with rates in overseas countries, especially when allowance is made for their much greater density of population and reduced distribution costs. Comparative rates in other countries, expressed in Australian currency, are: 
Britain : 4.5c with an increase to 6.3c proposed 
Germany : 7.3c 
Canada : 5.0c 
United States : 5.4c with an increase to 7.1c proposed 
France : 6.4c 
Sweden : 9.5c. 
Most of these overseas postal administrations are experiencing similar problems to the Australian Post Office - a rapid increase in wage rates in a highly labour intensive operation. The United States Post Office deficit now exceeds$A1.16 billion annually, the British postal service lost $A37m in 1969-70, and the Canada Post Office lost $A47m last year. 
I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
SALES TAX BILLS (Nos. 1 to 9) 1970 
Bills presented by  Mr Lynch,  and together read a first time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There is no differential in the rental for a basic telephone service far private or business use and costs are not recorded in this way. On average, the costs of installing a service involving new lines or equipment in the metropolitan area of each capital city during 1968-69 were: 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
As indicated in the answer to Question (!) no such offer was made by any country to the ABC. 
The ABC's inability to obtain rights to permit television coverage of the matches would no doubt have caused disappointment to soccer followers in Australia. The ABC was disappointed also that its negotiations for television rights were unsuccessful. However, the ABC was able to arrange a direct broadcast of a radio description of the last 15 minutes of the first half and of the entire second half of the final match. This description was beard from 64 ABC radio stations in Australia. 
'The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer to your Question on Notice on 12th June 1970, regarding the issue of a special postage stamp to commemorate the 25th anniversary ot Rural Youth in Australia. 
My Department receives very many requests for the issue of special stamps covering a wide range of subjects. However, because our production facilities allow only a few .stamps to be issued each year, al) of these requests must be examined on a very selective basis. 
The many requests for stamps, particularly for the recognition of worthwhile causes and organisations, present special problems in distinguishing between the merits of the various proposals put forward by the interested parties. We  have  had to refuse many of these requests from worthy organisations, both Australian and international, and in recent years we have been able to issue stamps for only a few organisations, such as Rotary, Lions Clubs and the YWCA. In this connection, and because of the number of requests, we have had to stipulate that anniversaries of Australian significance, as a general principle, must be at least of 50 years, or multiples of  50  years. 
While I appreciate the position in the community of Rural Youth in Australia I am sorry that I am unable to meet this request for the issue of a special stamp. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Currently about 26 hours per week on each of the ABCs First Network's stations. 
Parliamentary broadcasts are not carried on ABC regional stations so that there is no interruption to programmes in country areas when Parliament is sitting. An alternative programme to Parliamentary broadcasts is available in each of the State Capitals and in Newcastle and Canberra. 
The provision of an additional channel carrying Parliamentary broadcasts has been examined on several occasions but no frequencies are presently available to allow development along these lines. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to this question needs to be divided into two parts namely: 
cases where major extensions to line plant and/or exchange equipment are necessary, and 
cases where line plant and exchange equipment are available or only minor extensions are necessary. 
In the first case, the time taken to connect telephone services can vary between very wide limits, depending upon the nature and extent of the projects necessary to provide additional tine plant or exchange equipment. It is not meaningful, therefore, to endeavour to quote an average delay In these circumstances. 
In the second case, detailed statistics are not maintained on a continuous basis of the time taken by the Post Office to provide telephone services at Individual centres. A sample study has been made at a number of places throughout Australia with populations in excess of 20,000 of the current average delay in providing residence telephone services from the date of issue of the necessary orders for the work to be carried out. The results are: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows. 
Post Offices are fully air-conditioned at Marble Bar, Port Hedland, Wyndham, Exmouth, Kununurra, Dampier, Mt Newman and Tom Price. 
Yes. Carnarvon (tenders close June, 1970) and post offices at Broome, Derby, Roebourne, Onslow, Hall's Creek, Wittenoom and Fitzroy Crossing will be programmed for air-conditioning over the next 3 years subject to continued need and practicability. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) 1 refer the honourable member to pages 3673 and 3674 of Hansard of 12 June 1970, containing a reply by the Prime Minister to a question bythe Leader of the Opposition as to action taken on the recommendations of a number of Senate Select Committees, including that on Australian Productions on Television. As the Prime Minister's reply indicates action has been taken which is relevant to a wide range of the Committees' recommendations. Only about one quarter of the Committees' recommendations concerned broadcasting and television. There are no present further proposals for action in the broadcasting and television field flowing out of the recommendations of the Committee, except that the requirements of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board regarding Australian content in television programmes, which was the basic concern of the Committee are kept under regular review. A further such review is to be made shortly. The recommendations of the Committee will be borne in mind by myself and the Board in the normal administration of the broadcasting and television services. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
According to press reports, certain record manufacturing companies are requiring the payment of royalties by commercial 'broadcasting stations under the Copyright Act for use of recordings manufactured by them. As a result stations have discontinued the use of British and Australian recordings, the rights of which are held by the manufacturers concerned. 
I am not able to say at this stage whether the situation is having a detrimental effect on Australian composers and musicians. Press reports indicate that there are a considerable number of independent recording companies which are not involved in the dispute, whose recordings of Australian artists are still available for broadcasting. Press reports also make the point that artists will be able to consider their position when their existing contracts wilh recording companies expire. Some broadcasting enterprises have plans themselves to embark on production of recordings of Australian artists. 
It will be seen from the foregoing that it appears unlikely that there will be any disadvantage to Australian musicians in the long term, if indeed there is any temporary dislocation of the industry. The amendments to the Copyright Act bring it into conformity with legislation in the United Kingdom. The provisions do not require the payment of a royalty, but make it possible for the record manufacturers to impose one if, in their business judgment, this is wise. 
and (5) The present dispute between commercial broadcasting stations and record manufacturers has some complex aspects. It would not be appropriate for me to intervene especially as there is provision in the copyright legislation for arbitration on disputes. The matter of ensuring the greatest opportunities for Australian talent in broadcasting is kept under review by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board. The possibilities of any further development of stations' activities in this regard has been under discussion by the Board with the Federation of Australian Commercial Broadcasters. The Broadcasting and Television Act provides that broadcasting stations shall devote not less than 5% of music time to Australian compositions. On the average stations exceed the requirement and station operators have told the Board that they will be able to continue to conform with the requirement Prior to the present dispute 11 to 13% of all music broadcast by commercial stations was devoted to Australian performances. The extensive activities of the Australian Broadcasting Commission in encouraging Australian talent are well known. The Commission is not involved in the dispute with the recording companies and the dispute does not therefore affect the broadcasting of records of Australian artists on national broadcasting stations. 
I know that comments are made from time to time by certain sections of the industry concerning substantial unemployment in the industry. I think it is necessary to recognise that although the Actors Equity Association of Australia has a membership of some 4,000 people not all that number - and this has been indicated to me by the Secretary of Actors Equity - would be really suited to television acting. The same principle would apply - perhaps to a lesser degree - to radio acting. Therefore, to use the membership of Actors Equity as an example of the number of employable people in the industry would be a fairly substantial exaggeration. I am not aware of substantial unemployment in the many areas of the industry to which the honourable member has referred. 
The Broadcasting Control Board has a responsibility under the legislation passed by this Parliament to determine the standards of programmes and of advertising. It has detailed the standards in relation to programme content. In relation to television it has determined that 50% of the programme content shall be Australian and that 18 hours in a 4-week period shall be televised between 7 p.m. and 9.30 p.m.. including 2 hours of Australian drama. When it is considering the matter the Board consults the parties who are associated with the industry to determine the employment situation and the capability of the industry to meet a particular requirement. At the same time it consults the station management because there is an economic aspect associated wilh this matter. 
I would remind the honourable member that some Australian drama programmes cost anything between $16,000 and $20,000 for a 1-hour episode. This has to be compared with the cost of imported programmes, which is in the vicinity of $4,500 or $5,000 an hour, lt is very difficult for stations in Australia to sell off programmes. Country stations are unable to pay very high fees for programmes. There are only 3 networks and it is very difficult to sell off programmes within Australia. lt has nor been easy, except in isolated cases, to sell off on the overseas market. I would like to sec more Australian programmes sold on the overseas market. I believe that this would help to relieve to some degree the very high production costs of Australian programmes. 1 understand that the Broadcasting Control Board is at the moment, in one of its periodic reviews, considering this question of the quota of Australian programmes on television. I am not sure when it will let me have a report but 1 do not think that it will be earlier than within the next month or two. It is a matter for the Parliament to determine whether the Board's report will be debated. Procedures will be available to honourable members. The report will not come to me in the form of a report which T would table in the Parliament and on which a debate would automatically ensue. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
When the Australian Broadcasting Control Board was established in 1949 there were 107 frequency channels available in the medium frequency band; in recent years the number has been increased to 108. In 1949 there were 102 commercial stations using between them a total of 65 frequency channels. 
Since the Australian Broadcasting Control Board was established in March 1949, approvals have been given for the grant of licences for 14 commercial broadcasting stations. The table hereunder shows the stations concerned and the number of applications which had been received in respect of each licence: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The Board has just submitted its report to me and I expect to announce a decision shortly. 
I intend tonight to take a somewhat broader view of the Budget than was taken by the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Kennedy).  I should like to begin by referring to a statement by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  in opening this debate for the Opposition last Tuesday night. He said: 'We reject the philosophy behind the Budget.' This does not surprise me in the slightest because, as I am sure everybody in the Australian community would know, the Leader of the Opposition is a Socialist. He and his party believe in nationalisation. In fact, if we were to examine the platform of the Australian Labor Party we could only come to the conclusion that it reeks of Socialism and nationalisation. Therefore, one would expect that it would reject the philosophy behind the Budget which was brought down by the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  last week. 
Section 16a of the telephone regulations does in fact cover to some degree the right of the Department, or authority to be given by the Department, in relation to the fitting of devices for the purpose of recording messages. I think that section 4 of the Telephonic Communications (Interception) Act is to a layman in somewhat ambiguous terms. I am not trying to make excuses but I think I am right in mentioning these 2 things because an officer who  reads those sections might be entitled to believe that in fact he could use either for a particular purpose. 
About 6 o'clock last night I received some information in relation to this matter. lt was the first information I had received. 1 believe that this practice was adopted for a genuine purpose. It was authorised by the Director of Posts and Telegraphs in South Australia, The purpose was to ensure that proper selling techniques were used by officers of the Department in relation to inquiries regarding new telephone installations or variation of existing telephone installations. It was an endeavour by the Deparament to ensure that the people who were in fact answering this type of inquiry were answering it in proper terms and to the greatest benefit to the Department in selling services or giving advice in relation to telephones. I cannot inform the House or the Leader of the Opposition of the number of occasions on which recording was done. I understand that it was done over a period of only 3 or 4 days, lt applied only to the type of conversation which 1 have mentioned. I immediately instructed that this operation be cancelled. 1 assure the House that it will not happen again. I think there has been a misunderstanding by certain officers of the Department. If further information is required I will endeavour to obtain it. I feel sure that no damage has been done. However, I regret that any officer of the Department should have seen fit to indulge in this type of operation. 
In regard to the first part of the honourable member's question. I will do as be has requested, but 1 would remind him and the House that the Broadcasting Control Board is also concerned with a number of other matters which are of public importance. During the past 2 weeks, and I think next week, it has been and will be engaged in an inquiry into the allocation of a broadcasting licence lo lbc Gosford area. It is involved in working out details in relation to 38 additional television stations throughout Australia. The Broadcasting Control Board is also engaged in the preparation of an annual report to this Parliament. I do not believe that I. would be justified in asking that the matter referred to by the honourable member receive higher priority than the other matters I have mentioned. As  I  indicated the other day, I think it may be another 6 or 6 weeks before a report of the nature requested by the honourable member can be prepared. The honourable member also asked whether this report would be tabled in the House. This will have to depend upon the content of the report. I really believe that the Broadcasting Control Board will indicate publicly what its new requirements are of television stations. Therefore, it will not be a report to me in a confidential way but virtually an instruction to the stations. If it is made public there will be no special need for the report to be tabled in the Parliament. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
One hundred and twenty-three (123) in the period 1st July 1968 to 30th June 1970. 
Yes. 
I understand it is not technically possible to bar against STD trunk calls. One must bar across all trunk calls on a particular telephone line. The Post Office has a prime responsibility to provide a sophisticated system for the public of this country. After a good deal of research over many years inside and outside Australia it was decided that we should have a system of subscriber trunk dialling and that not only for technical reasons but also for economic reasons we should avoid manual exchanges because they are tremendously expensive to operate and their use would inevitably lead to substantial increases in trunk call charges. Having regard to what I have said, it would be unfortunate if in fact people asked for a barring of their trunk system. This service would not be available to them unless more than 1 line or channel was taken by them, so that 1 line could be barred while other lines were not. Therefore, the policy adopted by the Post Office-I say this deliberately - is partly to discourage the idea of barring lines in the common interests of users of the telephone services provided by my Department within Australia. 
[11.301-1 move: 
That the Bill  be  now read  a second  time. 

 Mr Speaker, the prime purpose of this Bill is to increase those charges for Post Office services which require an amendment to the postal regulations or the telephone regulations. Generally these will apply from 1st October 1970, except the proposed air parcels service which is scheduled to come into operation on 1st January 1971. In addition to this, however, the Bill amends the Post and Telegraph Act to provide that government publications are deregistered from 19th August 1970 and will no longer attract a concessional rate. 
When speaking to the Post and Telegraph Rates Bill, I dealt with the reasons for the decision to increase certain of the Post Office rates. I outlined for the information of honourable members the more significant of the changes to be made, including those covered by this Bill which deals with the charges in telephone rentals and connection fees and with postal charges other than the basic rates which have been set in the Post and Telegraph Rates Bill. I will not take up the time of the House by traversing again the matters I dealt with in my previous speech. I merely commend this Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
There is a dispute concerning the use by commercial broadcasting stations of records which are produced in Australia. The arrangement that existed for many years was that these recordings were played on the commercial broadcasting stations on the basis that the advertising which was given by the announcement of the record, who actually composed it and what company manufactured it was regarded as the equivalent to the copyright fee or to the fee paid for its use. When the Copyright Act was amended some 12 months or 2 years ago, there was included in it  reference to international arrangements or understandings. There is a reciprocal arrangement in this area between Australia and the United Kingdom, but the United States has not entered into the agreement. 
The arrangement between the United Kingdom and Australia is that if records from either country are played in the other country, a fee is payable. America is not a party to the agreement and therefore the arrangement does not apply as between America and Australia. I might say that the Copyright Act merely leaves to the manufacturing companies the right as a matter of business judgment to ask for a fee or refrain from doing so. But some of the broadcasting stations or networks are in fact contemplating developing their own company for the purpose of manufacturing records. The Australian Broadcasting Commission is not involved in this dispute because, under the Broadcasting and Television Act, it is not allowed to advertise. Therefore, the ABC does not announce the name of a record, who is responsible for it or who manufactured it. But the ABC does pay a substantial fee to record manufacturers in Australia. 
I do know that the proposed increase in postal charges will be at great cost to many of these organisations. On Tuesday last I received a deputation from the automobile clubs of Australia which presented certain facts to me in relation to their problem. I had to explain to them, as I did to the House in my second reading speech, that this area of postal charges has been causing a loss of approximately $9m a year. I do not just say that in relation to automobile clubs but about this total area of publications. The Government believes that we should receive a reasonable contribution for services which are carried out by the Post Office. I informed the clubs, as I have informed members of the public and members of the House, that we will still in this area be making a substantial loss notwithstanding the increases in charges. They pointed out to me that there has been little rise in their fees over a considerable period, but it does seem to me that as the Post Office is called upon to meet an additional wages bill of $58m this year, making necessary increased charges which have to be passed on, it may be necessary for these organisations also to increase their charges to enable them to meet a reasonable postage charge which the Government imposes. 
 Mr Chairman,  as you have ruled that the amendment is in order I would like to say that I support it. I do so because I believe that it is quite wrong to require that only one-fifth of the members should be present when an important piece of legislation is passed by this Parliament. A minimum of one-third is few enough. I would support an even greater proportion than that. This Parliament makes decisions of tremendous importance year in, year out. I therefore believe that a substantial number of members should be required to be present when a decision is made. I do not want to make a long speech in regard to this matter. I merely indicate to the Committee where I stand. 
A good deal of progress has been made in the development of this piece of equipment. The honourable member will appreciate, of course, that it must be 100 per cent efficient before it can be made available to the public. It is possible with this type of equipment to have 2 pieces, one in the exchange and the other in the subscriber's home, which could become slightly at variance in terms of the number of calls recorded. Therefore we must be sure that we have arrived at perfection in both areas rather than only in one as is the position at present. 
I am interested in the comments of the honourable member. There have been occasions on which 1 have made public statements on some programmes when he has remained completely silent. T will obtain a copy of the script of the programme to which he refers and look at it to see whether action is justified. 
It is true that a videotape of a discussion between the ViceChancellor of the Queensland University and a member of the staff was not broadcast over the Australian Broadcasting Commission. I understand that the ABC, within the programme area of its administration, determined that this segment was not of sufficient programme value to justify its being broadcast. As to the final question which the honourable member asks, Professor Cowen has in fact brought this matter to the attention of the  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Commission with a request that it be referred to the full Commission. I understand this has been done and that a reply has been sent to Professor Cowen stating the views of the Commission. In his third question the honourable member asked whether this seemed to indicate that the programme in this instance was concerned more with sensational than with objective reporting. The answer which the ABC has presented to me following a discussion I had with the Commission is no. I feel bound as Minister in charge of this area to express the view that the news media generally within Australia and over a much broader area adopt the attitude that if a matter is not controversial, is not critical or is not sensational, it does not justify being publicised in journals, over the radio or ewer television. I have previously expressed views publicly on the desirability of objective reporting so that facts might be known to the general public which the news media are set up to serve. I only regret that the news media see their responsibility as being different from the attitude which I adopt. I think what is also overlooked by the news media in this regard is the tremendous waste of time of public figures in movement to television and radio studios, in actual recording and in movement back to their normal functions within the community, when the real information of value still does not reach the general public of Australia. 
1 noted this morning in one of the southern papers  -  I think it was the Melbourne 'Age* - a comment that the Leader of the Opposition had in fact sent a letter to each constituent. 
I am merely indicating what was in the Press. The honourable member tends to agree with my earlier comments, perhaps, in regard to it. 
But the point was that the newspaper suggested that a letter had been sent. As to the cost of postage- 
The Leader of the Opposition, interjecting as he so frequently does during answers to questions, indicates that these were delivered by hand and 1 must accept his assurance in this regard. 
Pursuant to section 53 of the Overseas Telecommunications Act 1946-1968 I present the annual report of the Overseas Telecommunications Commission for the year ended 31st March 1970. together with financial statements and the Auditor-General's report on those statements. 
I did not hear the statement made on 'Guest of Honour' on the ABC, I do not know therefore the contents other than what has been indicated by the honourable member. I will be pleased to obtain a copy of the script. If I think it should be distributed to honourable members [ will be delighted to do so. 
1 cannot out of my memory give any indication of costs associated with this particular lease. This was a lease undertaken with my approval and with Treasury approval in regard to premises in Melbourne, named I think, St James House. The lease was undertaken as from approximately April or May last, but as is frequently the situation in commercial buildings it was vacant space, not partitioned, and the partitioning was done at the request of the lessee by the landlord. This was the arrangement between the ABC and the lessor. Pending completion of these alterations it was impossible to occupy the premises. The ABC went into occupation, I think, during the first weekend of this month so there was a period between April or May and September when the premises were not occupied. I believe this to be a similar situation to that prevailing in commercial areas generally between a lessor and lessee of substantial areas. 
Since the public announcement was made about the review by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board of the Australian content in radio and television programmes many representations have been made to the Board, including representations from those whose livelihood depends upon employment in this industry. Representations have also been made to the Prime Minister, the  Deputy  Prime Minister and myself. We will be seeing a deputation from members of the industry next week. I understand that the Australian Broadcasting Control Board is to receive representations today from the Federation of Australian Commercial Television Stations. I am sure the honourable member will appreciate that, flowing out of these various representations, a good deal of analysis by the Board will be necessary before it is able to come to a conclusion in relation to any variations which it believes are justified in these media. 
I think it would be more appropriate if I made arrangements for the same facilities to be made available to the Leader of the Opposition. 
I am surprised that the honourable member has not taken this up with the State administration so that it might investigate in detail the claims that he has made. It is true that people who have telephones can be called at any time. Generally, courtesy demands that calls be restricted to early morning, day time and early evening but there is no restriction under the regulations to prevent telephones being used 24 hours a day. Indeed, most members of Parliament know that people ring them at somewhat odd hours to make complaints of one sort or another. I do not believe that one would be justified in altering the regulations because it would be very difficult to interpret from time to time what might be regarded as difficult circumstances. 
I know nothing of the incident to which the honourable member refers. If he is able to give me more detailed information I will certainly take it up with the  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. 
1 believe that the announcement made by the Treasurer in the Budget Speech and subsequently amplified by myself in relation to the new policy for country telephones was received with some acclaim in country areas and that it will be of tremendous assistance to the people in these areas. Nevertheless it is not to be assumed that this new policy will be implemented overnight. It will have to be implemented over quite a substantial period. 
Coming to the last part of the honourable member's question, I think it must be appreciated that the digging of trenches and the laying and jointing of cables involves some work that must be done by people who are technically qualified. There must be co-ordination so that when a trench is dug it will not be allowed to collapse because of rain, thus requiring further digging. It is not easy therefore for the Post Office to make arrangements with private enterprise to do this work. I would be pleased to have a look at the matter raised by the honourable member to see whether it is possible to extend the use of private contractors in this or other Post Office activities. 
May I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill 1 would like to suggest that it may suit die convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Post and Telegraph Bill 1970 as they are related measures. Separate questions may, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest that you.  Mr Speaker,  permit the subject matter of the 2 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
It is unusual for a Minister to enter at this stage of a debate. Usually any reply that he would desire to make would be made at the conclusion of the second reading debate. But under the present circumstances, in which the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  has moved an amendment, I believe that in relation to the matter of that amendment I should make comment at this point and should indicate that the Government will not accept the amendment which has been proposed. It is not my intention to deal with the various matters which have been raised by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports or the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Webb)  in relation to the Bills which are before the House but rather to speak in terms of the proposal for the establishment of a statutory corporation, which the Opposition has put before the House this afternoon as an amendment to the Post and Telegraph Rates Bill 1970. 
I must confess that I was a little surprised that the honourable member for Melbourne Ports, in moving this amendment, said very little in relation to it. It could be reasonably interpreted by us who listened in the House and by those who read the Hansard report of his speech that really his only reference and his only justification for considering a statutory corporation for the Australian Post Office was the statutory corporation status of the British Post Office, The honourable member went on then to deal with the matters which were in the Bill. The honourable member for Stirling has said a little more in relation to the statutory corporation. I believe that, if I say that the Government will not accept the proposal, I should give reasons why the Government is not prepared to accept it. This, sir, I propose to do. 
I commence at the point of argument that the British Post Office is the desirable basis on which we should establish a similar operation in Australia. Let me remind the House what in fact is within the actual British Post Office operation in terms of charges and in terms of provision of interest on the money which is invested in the Post Office there and then apply that principle to the Australian Post Office. Recently, in March last approximately, the British Post Office decided that it would require a 10 per cent return on capital invested in telecommunications in lieu of the  8i  per cent return which had been the earlier rate. If we apply a return of 10 per cent on $2, 190m which is the amount invested in the Australian Post Office in the telecommunications field, we arrive at a figure of $2 19m as representing that interest return. If we apply the British Post Office basis of 2 per cent on expenses in relation to the postal services, which in Australia totals $173m, the figure is $3.5m. So, the target of the Australian Post Office in the financial year which we have just ended would be a surplus of $222.5m. Is that what the Australian Labor Party asks for? 
Wait a minute; I will come to the other. I merely ask a question: Is that what the Australian Labor Party is asking for? 
May I indicate what has happened in the Australian Post Office in the last financial year. Interest was $106m and the profit achieved was $2m. This means that SI 08m is the amount which we have received in return on money invested or, in the case of the postal services, turnover. So, the figure under the basis laid down by the British Post Office is more than twice what we in fact obtained in Australia. This is being criticised by the 
Opposition in this debate. I ask the question again: Is it the British Post Office principle that the Australian Labor Party wants accepted in a statutory corporation sense in relation to the Australian Post Office? 
That is a reasonable proposition to put to the Opposition- 
One is always hesitant, as Postmaster-General, to interfere with the ABC but if this is a question of making a request to the ABC that these students be permitted to present their point of view and their country's attitude to the problem with which it is faced, I will be very willing to make it soon after question time. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 

 Mr Speaker, the Bill which I now introduce seeks to give effect to the Government's intention to increase the licence fees for radiocommunication stations. In order to give effect to the proposed fee structure it is necessary to define clearly in the regulations the types of stations which require a licence and to amend the present station definitions to accord with modern concepts. 
There are 5 basic categories of stations - land, mobile, fixed, amateur and receiving. Land stations are the key, or base stations for mobile stations which are usually installed in aircraft, ships or motor vehicles. Fixed stations are those established for communication between fixed points. Amateur stations are those stations operated by hobbyists, sometimes referred to as 'radio hams'. Receiving stations arc those land and fixed stations not licensed to providetransmitting capabilities. The types of licences to be issued are set out in the schedule to the regulations. They all fall within one of the broad categories approved. There has been no change in the level of the licence fee since it was set at $2 in 1924. Until about 1950, however, the disparity between costs and revenues was not large enough to cause concern since stations were few in number and in any case were provided primarily as  a  means of emergency communication. Since 1950, however, the situation has changed very rapidly and the number of licences issued has risen from 5,115 to a present day total of 136,000 by increasingly large annual increments. This growth has added greatly to the costs of administration and technical supervision. 
A comparison of these costs with licence fee revenues reveals that there has been a persistent deterioration which has led to the. present annual deficit of $0.8m. It is proposed, therefore, that the fees for licences be adjusted to a more appropriate level which will return an extra $460,000  in 1970-71 and $620,000 in a full year. These new fees do not seek to recover costs associated with Commonwealth Government services and certain services deserving of special consideration because of the community interests involved. 
For land and fixed stations the fee will be $10. For those stations with capacity to receive but not to transmit, and for mobile and amateur stations, the fee will be $6. The different fee levels reflect the variation in administrative and technical effort involved. The existing fee of $2, however, is to continue to apply in respect of stations operating as outpost services. In the outback areas of the Commonwealth there are 5,000 such stations which provide services associated with Schools of the Air or the Flying Doctor and aerial ambulances or are providing the only means of public communication and as such are required to handle telegraph traffic. Australian outback missions come within this group. 
It is also considered that as the regulations apply in Papua and New Guinea, missions in that Territory should obtain similar treatment and be licensed for the present fee of $2. There are approximately 500 such stations. Ambulance services which are not included as outpost stations and rural fire brigades will also continue to be licensed for the present fee of $2.It is also proposed that stations which are established to provide speech connection to the public telephone system both in Australia and Papua and New Guinea will be licensed free of charge because the operators are required to pay the appropriate telephone tariffs. This will be achieved by the issue of special licences already provided for in theregulations and which may be issued without charge. 
It is proposed that the new fees will operate from 1st November 1970. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Stewart)  adjourned. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Not at all, because the installation of the S.T.D. system as well as meeting the modern community need of speed and efficiency also has economic advantages. To the user, the pro-rata charging system on S.T.D. calls offers savings compared to the system of charging for operatorconnected calls in three-minute multiples. To the Post Office it means that fewer operators are required, less exchange equipment and buildings need to be provided and trunk docketing and accounting costs are reduced. Without S.T.D. massive expenditure would be necessary to expand and maintain the manual system. 
See answer to (1). 
It is technically possible to bar access to the' trunk network - that is to both S.T.D. and the trunk operator - with access being available to the local call area only. In some cases where suitable equipment is available, it is possible to bar access to S.T.D. only. Because of the additional cost involved in installing and maintaining the special equipment needed to effect access barring, the Post Office charges an annual fee on each service that is barred. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There are no increased telephone charges other than those announced in the Budget under consideration for this financial year. (2) See answer to (1). 
Adelaide Airport: Light Aircraft Terminal (Question No. 1825)  Mr Jacobi  asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice:  %l)  Is it a fact that an application has been approved for the establishment of a light aircraft terminal and maintenance centre at Adelaide Airport. 
If so, (a) what is the name of the applicant, (b) on what date was the application approved, and (c) who made the decision. 
Where were these facilities previously located in South Australia, and what is the reason for their establishment at Adelaide Airport. 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to complaints of the considerable discomfort suffered by those people in close proximity to the flight paths and the noise created by these light aircraft. 
Is it a fact that these new facilities are much nearer the residential areas. 
If so, will the Minister arrange for the erection of sound screens near the area where these aircraft are to be maintained and serviced. 
Will the Minister take steps to ensure that the current curfew arrangements also apply to the movements of these light aircraft. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The establishment of the national broadcasting station which has been authorised for the Streaky Bay area is proceeding as expeditiously as possible. The station, which will operate on the frequency channel of 690kHz with a power of 2000 watts, is expected to be completed in the financial year 1971-72. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
No. The present policy regarding commemorative postage stamps was established in 1964 because of the large number of requests received by my Department for the issue of such stamps. The stamps referred to by the honourable member were issued under previous policies. The only exception to the present policy that anniversaries must be at least the fiftieth is in respect of the 2Sth anniversaries of exceptional importance associated with the work of the United Nations and its Specialised Agencies. 
I regret that it is not possible to issue the stamp requested. However, in 1971, commemorative stamps will be issued in honour of the three armed services. 
by leave - In my second reading speech on the Post and Telegraph Rates Bill on 18th August 1970, I advised the House that the posting of registered publications and bulk pie-sorted mail to New Zealand at the domestic rates of postage was under discussion with the New Zealand Post Office. The Universal Postal Union Convention requires that such special arrangements should be agreed to by the country of destination. 
The New Zealand postal administration has now advised that it docs not wish to continue the special arrangement whereby domestic bulk rates of postage are applied to bulk consignments of registered publications and pre-sorted printed papers posted to that country. However, the New Zealand Post Office has agreed that the new domestic bulk rates applicable to the categories of mail concerned should be permitted to apply up until 3 1st December 1970 and that the domestic individual item rate on registered publications could continue indefinitely. This means that as from 1st January 1971 all registered publications posted to New Zealand will be required to pay the individual item rate of 6c for the first 6 oz and 5c each additional 6 oz. Other types of printed papers posted in bulk will be required to pay the normal overseas printed papers rate. The postcard and greeting card airmail rate to New Zealand and its Territories, New Caledonia, New Hebrides, Loyalty Islands and Wallis and Futuna will be 7c per  i oz  from 1st October 1970 to accord with the surface postcard rate to these countries. 
by leave -  Mr Speaker,  following my invitation for applications for the grant of licences for commercial television stations in respect of each of the Mount Isa, Darwin and Kalgoorlie areas, the Australian Broadcasting Control Board has, as required by the Broadcasting and Television Act, held public inquiries into the applications received and submitted a report and recommendation to me as to the grant of licences. Following consideration of the Board's reportI have adopted the Board's recommendations and now announce the grant of licences to the following applicant companies: 
It was only in the last week of the sittings of this Parliament that agreement was reached in the 2 Houses that there should be new rates of postage. If representations are made to me about matters which might appear to be anomalous I will consider them but 1 do not hold out any hope of any substantial adjustments in view of the approval which has already been given by the Parliament. 
There should not be any delay because of any disagreement between the Post Office, the Department of Civil Aviation and Ansett Airlines of Australia in relation to charges for the carriage of mail. I think I should make some explanation about this situation which was reported in one of the newspapers this morning. It is to be appreciated that if the Post Office is to be regarded as a business undertaking it must look not only at the revenue side of its accounts but also at the costs side. The Post Office spends annually many millions of dollars on the conveyance of mail to various parts of Australia and also overseas. 
In an examination of the rates of charge for the carriage of mail internally it was noticed that there was a substantial difference - approximately 50 per cent - between the cost of carriage of passengers and freight and the cost of carriage of mail. It has always been my understanding that usually the large user tends to have a lower rate than the small user. As a result of this investigation it was believed that payments larger than necessary were being made to the internal airlines, and the Government decided that there should be a reduction. This was put to the 2 internal airlines. It was accepted by Trans-Australia Airlines but not accepted by Ansett Airlines of Australia. A different situation in principle applies in regard to overseas carriage of mail by air. The Universal Postal Union determines the rate of charge by overseas airlines. There is a very substantial difference in charge between the carriage of letter mail overseas and the carriage of other mail overseas. The difference is 4 gold francs as against 1 gold franc. I am speaking approximately. At the last UPU meeting in Japan last year it was decided that there would be a reduction in the letter rate of 25 per cent. This will apply from 1st July 1972. 
Pursuant to section 28 of the Broadcasting and Television Act 1942-1969, I present the 22nd annual report of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board for the year ended 30th June 1970, together with financial accounts and the report of the Auditor-General on those accounts. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Commercial television companies and the Australian Broadcasting Commission are charged the same standard rates for the hiring of television links. For a one-hour relay, the charge is $4.50 per radial mile during the full-rate period 6 p.m to 12 midnight and $2.25 per radial mile during the reduced-rate period 12 midnight to 6 p.m. 
A maximum chargeable distance of 600 miles is applied in determining the charge for relaying a television programme between two centres. The cost for a 1 hour television relay between the capital cities named would be: 
I am not sure whether the honourable member, in the earlier part of his question, referred to accounts or rentals. I would not believe that there was any holding up of Post Office accounts because these accounts are rendered at the end of each 6-month period. The only time an adjustment is made is related to a change in the accounts area of the Post Office. This would happen very infrequently. If the honourable member's question applied to rental charges, I can assure him that the problems, if any, which the Post Office has relate to the installation of new equipment. I have had some complaints that there has been delay in meeting the new demand because of the increased rental applying from 1st October. I can assure the honourable member that increased charges were not the reason for the delay. Rather, it was because the engineers recently refused to work overtime. I can assure the House that nothing was done within the Post Office in an attempt to take any advantage whatever of the new charges. Work went on as usual, other than for some industrial difficulty which did cause a postponement in certain cases. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. But the Prime Minister recently visited the Canberra studio of the A.B.C. for familiarisation with the use of autocue equipment which it is considered might be used in recordings made at that studio. 
None. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (3) As the honourable member will appreciate, the question of the introduction of colour television to Australia involves a number of important issues requiring careful consideration, arising not only from die technical aspects involved but also from the wide economic and financial implications. 
I have recently received from the Australian Broadcasting Control Board a report which covers a range of very important matters associated with the introduction of colour television and closely examines all of the issues involved. The Government will be considering the matter in the near future and I will at the appropriate time make a statement to the House. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (3) As I announced in the Parliament on 7th May 1970, the Australian Broadcasting Control Board will hold a public inquiry into all aspects of frequency modulation broadcasting. Persons desirous of giving evidence at the inquiry are required to lodge statements of evidence with the Board by 30th October 1970. From the terms of reference of the inquiry, which I provided in a later statement in the House on 14th May (Hansard page 2130), the honourable member will appreciate that the type of matters to which he has referred will be encompassed by the Board's inquiry. I have already indicated that I will in due course make the report of the Board available to honourable members and the public. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The Southern Cross/ Bullfinch area is one of 38 remote areas of the Commonwealth for which low powered television stations were authorised in the seventh stage of television development. The establishment of these stations is proceeding as expeditiously as possible but 1 am not yet in a position to indicate the likely commencement period of the station in question. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (3) Preliminary investigations have been made- regarding the possibilities of improving the grade of television service which is available in the Mullewa area. I am not in a position at this stage to indicate the likely outcome of the investigations. Mullewa is one of a considerable number of areas throughout the Commonwealth which has to be investigated. In view of the heavy commitment of both the Australian Broadcasting Control Board and my Department in extending the television services it would be some time before a decision is reached, but I will bring the honourable member's interest to the notice of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board. 
1 apologise to the House for entering the debate at this stage, ft is normally my practice to seek to speak at the end of the debate when I can answer some of the queries which are raised by honourable members. 
The clock has not moved so that ought to be an indication that I will do my best to finish within a quarter of an hour. I. would have taken longer if I had waited to answer queries, so I hope I will take less time than I normally would. Honourable members will remember that just before Cabinet considered the Budget for this year there were some reports in the newspapers about an attitude I had adopted in regard to the Australian Broadcasting Commission. I have indicated in the House on a couple of occasions that I believe the appropriate time to comment about these matters and to give my reasons is in the Estimates debate. This is one reason why I rise at this stage. I rise so that those who follow me in the debate may offer comment on what I have said. 
If we look at Division 405 we find that the operating cost of services under the control of the Australian Broadcasting Commission is estimated at $51m. When the estimates of the ABC were presented to me, after they had been reviewed by the Treasury with officers of the ABC. the amount was S52.3m. A litle later a new award was determined for some officers of the ABC which meant an increase of $lm. 
Therefore the total was increased to $53. 3m. I said to the ABC that I felt there should be a reduction and Cabinet finally made a further reduction to give the figure of $51m which I have mentioned. It was suggested in some newspapers at the time that the result of the cut which I was suggesting meant that the 'Four Corners' programme would be shown once a month instead of 4 times a month: that we would see the programme 'This Day Tonight* twice a week instead of 4 or 5 times a week; that in fact what I had done represented virtually a disaster in relation to current affairs programmes. Of course, these newspapers did not have the information and were making their usual uninformed speculation regarding the situation. However, on receiving draft estimates from the ABC I discovered that there were new figures relating to the programme content. 1 found expenditure on new current affairs programmes presented on radio totalled $61,200. These programmes were to start early in 1971 and in a full year the cost would have been $44,453. This programme provided for 9 additional members of the Australian Broadcasting Commission staff for production purposes. The estimated expenditure on new programmes for television, which included the cost of one additional reporter, was $109,000. Therefore, in these 2 items was a cost of Si 70.000 on new material and new programmes within the curent affairs area. When T had regard to travelling costs, the possibility of economies that could be effected and the quite substantial increase in the amount require' by the ABC in this area - I will give figures to the House in a minute - I came to the conclusion that the sum required was unnecessarily large. So, I endorsed thestimates with these words: 
There appears to be an unnecessary expansionist approach.  1  think this is unnecessary and I approve the estimates subject to a reduction of $500,000 of which at least half, i.e., $250,000, is to be applied in the area of public affairs programmes and these particularly in the area of television. 
When one looks at the totals which are included in the Budget Estimates one finds that the operating expenditure of the ABC this year is $62. 1 m and that capital expenditure is $ 1 0.4m. This makes a total of $72. 5m for the conduct of the ABC operation in this year. There are those people in the community who suggest that the ABC should have complete autonomy and that there should be no interference by the Government or anyone else. It is therefore interesting to note that the revenue which will Mow from broadcasting and television licence fees will be $49.7m. So from the normal revenues of the Budget approximately $23m will be allocated to the ABC over and above the revenue received from licence fees. In 1968-69 the operating and capital expenditure was S59.6m and the following year it was S63.2m. This represents an increase of S3. 6m or 6 per cent. The amount provided this year is an increase over last year of $9. 3m or 14.7 per cent. I believe that I was completely justified, as 1 believe Cabinet was justified, in making an adjustment in (he amount available to the ABC. 
T would like to refer to another matter which relates in particular to my Department. It seemed to me that this is an opportunity that 1 should take to inform honourable members and also the Australian public of the contribution which the Austraiian Post Office is making to other countries. Within Australia there is some criticism of the Post Office. Some of it may be justified but a good deal is not. The Post Office through its staff makes a substantial contribution to the development of postal services and telecommunciation services in quite a number of countries. I was overseas some 3 years ago and I met the Postmaster-General of the United States of America. Soon after T returned home I received a request from him for information on postal services in Australia. The Postmaster-General of the United States asked for information which he thought would assist his organisation to improve its postal services. It was no mean task that he asked us to perform. In fact, our reply occupied 16 pages of typed material. 
Subsequent to that, on 1st January 1968 a member of a United States committee which was investigating Post Office matters visited Australia at the request of that committee to discuss with senior officers of the Australian Post Office several topics concerning the services about which the committee was particularly interested. The member of the committee was interested in industrial relations, our policy for determining tariff on mail equivalent to the second class category in the United States and finally methods of improving productivity in mail handling areas of the larger centres. 
In the telecommunications area we had a request for an officer of the Bell Telephone Company to be permitted to study the techniques which were used by the Australian Post Office to forecast the demand for telecommunications services. Honourable members who have read of the problems in New York in recent months will appreciate why this was one of the problems on which the Americans sought our assistance. Therefore, in 3 instances - and particularly in the case of the United States Post Office and the Bell Telephone Company - organisations from the United States have asked the Australian Post Office for advice and assistance to help them to improve services in that country. The Australian Post Office has also provided technical assistance in many other areas. This assistance has been provided to Papua and New Guinea, Indonesia, Africa, South East Asia and South America in response to requests by a number of United Nations agencies or at the direct request of the country concerned. I believe that such requests reflect the high opinion in which the Post Office in Australia is held overseas. 
During 1969-70, 28 members of the Austraiian Post Office were overseas on technical assistance missions to 13 developing countries. One officer was stationed at Nicaragua in Central America to provide transmission assistance. One member of the staff went to Fiji to provide telecommunication maintenance training. Three visits were made to Indonesia. The first comprised a party of 8 people. There is a long term project in Indonesia, under the Colombo Plan, extending from 1968 to 1973 and involving various tasks such as cable switching and work in the microwave fields to upgrade the Indonesian network. The second visit involved 3 people who were engaged in assisting to provide a telecommunication network for aeronautical purposes. The third visit involved one person as an instructor in carrier and line transmission at the International Telecommunication Union training school. 
Three people were sent to Malaysia as instructors at its training school in switching and transmission work. One officer was sent to the Philippines to plan a microwave network. One officer was sent to Saudi Arabia as a telecommunication workshop instructor and to plan a cable and radio project. This project has recently been completed. One officer went to Singapore as a switching instructor at the Singapore Telephone Board. One officer was sent to South Vietnam to assist in the installation and maintenance of radio links. There were 3 projects in Thailand, each involving one person. One officer was sent there to direct the postal training school, one to work on an exchange and local plant operation and one as a project leader of a pre-investment regional telecommunication survey. One officer went to Tonga for telephone network planning, one went to Venezuela as head of a telecommunication mission, one went to Hong Kong to assist in the mechanisation of the mail exchange and one went to the New Hebrides to work on a telephone line network. 
Two of the principle long term projects which Australia is undertaking are being carried out in Indonesia and Venezuela. The Indonesian Government is engaged on a programme to extend very substantially its facilities for domestic and international telecommunications. A programme was initiated in Venezuela in 196S to reconstruct and reorganise the telecommunication facilities and services. Through arrangements paid for by the International Telecommunication Union Australia has sent technical advisers to Venezuela to implement the programme and to provide back-up information from Australia. Two senior communication officers from Venezuela are at present visiting Australia in connection with these projects. 
In relation to marketing, I think that honourable members should appreciate the fact that some of the newer things which are being done in the Post Office are things in which other countries are showing a great deal of interest. These include such matters as priority paid mail services, bulk pre-sorted mail, the use of marketing techniques and management consultation. I am sure that every honourable member knows that the staff of the Australian Post Office meets business people. In fact, people engaged in the overseas communication area have shown great interest in the way in which this is organised and the results which are achieved. 
I have one other matter to add, and I place special emphasis on it because when we debated the Bill which provided for increased postal charges the Opposition -moved an amendment in which it sought an inquiry into the establishment of the Post Office as a statutory corporation. The argument was based principally on the fact that the British Post Office is now a statutory corporation. Recently we received a request from  Mr Fennessy,  who is a member of the Post Office Board. He was a leading British industrialist who, when the British Post Office was converted into a statutory corporation, was brought onto the Board to bring from outside some knowledge and experience to help in the running of the organisation. Recently he wrote to the Australian Post Office and asked whether we would agree to a visit by 4 senior members of the staff of the British Post Office to study the organisation and some aspects of the Australian Post Office, particularly in regard to exchange switching and exchange equipment programming and procurement. 1 mention these matters to the Committee in the hope that they might give to honourable members the opportunity to take a slightly broader view than is usually taken in a debate on the estimates for the Postmaster-General's Department. Such a debate tends to embrace some of the more minor matters. I think that the contribution which is being made by the Australian Post Office to other countries at their request or at the request of United Nations agencies should be known to honourable members and to the Australian community. I believe that if it is known people inside and outside the Parliament will have a better appreciation of the type of person who is employed in the Post Office, the type of person who serves the Australian community in a technical or administrative capacity. I hope that what I have said indicates that I, as Postmaster-General, have a tremendously high regard for the efficiency of the people who are carrying on this $ 1,000m business in Australia. 
I de not. want to detain the House long, . but first I would like to say that twice during this debate mention has been made of the profit of commercial television stations. I would like to put this in its right perspective. The report of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board indicates the gross profit, which is the revenue less expenses but before the licence fee arid taxation have been paid. All the commercial telecasting stations are public companies. For the year 1968-69 referred to in the report they all paid 45 per cent of their profit by way of taxation. So to use a figure of $15m as being their profit gives the impression to the community that this is automatically available for shareholders, for reserves and for expenditure in the area of film, production. This would be quite wrong . When licence fees are added to the taxes,, the proportion which is taken away from, tha companies is pretty close to 50 per. cent Only 50 per cent remains for other purposes. 
Forty-five per cent in income tax. 
No. I merely make that, point for the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  because he says there is a profit of $15m.   Mr Crean  - That is taxable income. 
That is not the' term in which one refers to company profits. Honourable members opposite come into the House and say that the profit of the Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd for the year was- S50m odd. This is after taxation has been a charge against the profit. No taxation has been charged against this $15m. I am merely trying to make the point that if we want to be properly analytical in our debate in this House we should be dealing with realities and not dealing with what one might term the spurious facts which appear to flow but of a particular operation. I do not want to say any more about that. I wanted to make a comment in relation to a query raised by the honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson).  Earlier in the week he asked me a question which I answered broadly. He raised the matter again yesterday during this debate and I now have the answer for him. I point out to honourable members that sometimes when a question is asked without notice which relates to an administrative process it is impossible for the Minister to deal with it other than broadly. I now come to the particular in regard to the question. I am sorry that the honourable member is not in the House, but no doubt he will pick up the answer from Hansard in due course. 
The honourable member raised the question of some of the telephone accounts in Western Australia having been held over from September to early in October for distribution. The accounts that have been distributed included rental charges which date from 1st October. Although recognised as the October accounts, as the honourable member for Perth suggested, they are normally issued in September. The increased telephone tariffs are operative from 1st October 1970 and are payable in respect of all services as from that date. Subscribers whose October accounts did not include the higher rental charge will receive their next bills in April 1971. In addition to 6 months rental in advance at the higher rate those bills will include a rental adjustment from 1st October 1970. The experience of the Department has shown that most telephone subscribers prefer to have any . tariff adjustments included in their accounts at the earliest date so as to escape the cumulative effect of back-dated adjustments in later accounts. Before a rental tariff adjustment can be included in telephone accounts a considerable amount of preliminary work is necessary on the departmental records. 
On. this occasion Queensland and Western Australia were the only States in a position to adjust the October accounts, and the increased tariff for the corresponding accounts in other States will be billed in April 1971. In Queensland and Western Australia special efforts were made to include the increased rates in the October bills to avoid the effect on subscribers of adjusting the longer period in the April 1971 accounts. This has caused the normal cycle of bill despatch to be extended by about 1 week. The October bills, which would normally have been despatched during September, would not have been delivered before 2nd October. In order that subscribers would have a full 14 days in which to pay their accounts, the date was amended, and the payment terms read: 'Payable within 14 days of 2nd October 1970'. 
As I .indicated yesterday, I have no intention on this occasion of dealing with many of the details that have been raised by honourable members. I took up a quarter of an hour or so yesterday afternoon on very important matters relating to the Post Office and other instrumentalities. I regret only that honourable members have riot seen fit to talk about some of those important things rather than to continue to deal with details which come within the administrative area and which I believe have not a very great significance in relation to the estimates of the Post Office. 
Pursuant to section 96l of the Post and Telegraph Act 1901-1970 I present the annual report of the Australian Post Office for the year ended 30th June 1970 together with financial statements and the report of the Auditor-General on those statements. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Demand for telephone services involving the provision of new lines or equipment in 1969-70 after allowing for withdrawn applications which numbered 37,707, was as follows: 
Yesterday the Public Service Board made an offer to the Australian Council of Trade Unions and various Post Office unions folowing representations of some 2 or 3 months ago which themselves were followed by work studies within the Department, by unions and by officers of the Public Service Board. The effect of the offer which was made yesterday is, from the point of view of the Post Office, that in one area there will be an increase in hours and in other areas there will be a reduction in hours. In terms of penalty payments and substantial additional payments for overtime the total effect of those offers, if they are accepted by the unions, will be an additional cost to the Post Office of about $6m. 
I know that the Opposition tends to believe that these things can be justified. If the Post Office were to show an additional cost of  $6im  in its accounts and if the loss in the postal service increased by a comparable figure the Opposition would say that that was the result of inefficiency. It has to be realised that if costs are increased because tribunals give additional benefits to the work force, then the community in some way or another has to meet those increases. 1 do not believe that the Opposition's attitude of having a statutory corporation to control an organisation such as the Post Office overcomes what I would regard as disastrous increases which can flow from some determinations of tribunals. 
It would be necessary for me to refer to files of my Department or to the Australian Broadcasting Control Board to give the honourable member an answer. I am afraid that it is not possible for me to keep in my mind the power of every television and broadcasting station around Australian and what requests may have been made in relation to these stations. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Demand in each State for telephone services involving the provision of new lines or equipment in 1969-70 after allowing for withdrawn applications which numbered 37,707 was as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
At 28th September outstanding demand for telephone services in the metropolitan areas of the cities mentioned was as follows: 
When 1 became PostmasterGeneral some 7 years ago and investigated the situation of deferred applications it was obvious that New South Wales had many more and a much greater percentage than any of the other States. Indeed, special action was taken by me to bring about a big reduction in the total number. From memory I believe that at one time, over a period of 2 or 3 years, some 44 per cent of loan moneys available to the Post Office was spent in New South Wales for the purpose of overcoming the problem there. It is to be appreciated by anybody who knows the Sydney area and who knows the type of country, sandstone in particular, that there are substantial problems associated with the cost of putting telephone services underground in that area. Additionally, of course, there has been a tremendous expansion of population in the Sydney area which, again, has contributed to the problem that exists. But it is not to be assumed that while we try to cure a problem in one area a similar problem will not arise in another State. A couple of years ago the demand rate in Western Australia reached as high, over an 8 months period, as 42 per cent. It was therefore necessary for something to be done by the transfer of employees, as had taken place in relation to New South Wales, to Western Australia to keep under control the situation there. I have said in the House before, and I say it again, that I have no intention of allowing every State to become unbalanced merely to try to solve the problems of one State. I will do my best to ensure that by degrees we are able to reduce the total number of deferred applications in each State. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
No. Telephone congersations between subscribers have not been taped in trunk exchanges anywhere in Australia. However, an arrangement, now discontinued had been in operation in some States for a number of years whereby a small sample of trouble report calls made by subscribers to the Service Difficulties Centre was from time to time taped in order to improve the handling of public complaints and difficulties. In each case this was done with the knowledge and acceptance of the staff association to which the telephone operators belong. All tapes were erased under supervision immediately their operating purpose bad been served. These records were taken by officers of the Department in the course of their duties in connection with die operation of the telephone system; they were therefore within the terms of the Telephone Communications (Interception) Act. (3), (4), (5) and (6) See answer to (2). 
What was done in this matter had nothing whatever to do with any interest of John Fairfax and Sons Ltd in Canberra Television Ltd. It related to a situation which developed in Western Australia. I shall deal with it broadly. The situation arose with the transfer of substantial television interests to a pension fund. It was discovered that 2 out of the 3 trustees of the fund were directors of the television company. It was believed that if 2 trustees out of the 3 were directors of the company as well as trustees of the pension fund in fact the fund is virtually still under the control of the company. On 22nd October it came to my notice that this was the situation. I made the statement as at 12th December. Normally when a statement is made and something is intended to apply out of that statement it applies as from the time the statement is made. It was intended to apply as at 22nd October because at that moment 1 did not know whether anything had happened. Subsequently it was found that there had been no change and no advantage had been taken of the Broadcasting and Television Act as it stood between 22nd October and up to 12th December. It therefore seemed appropriate that we should change the date of operation to the date of the announcement, 12th December, there being in the Government's view no disadvantage from the point of view of control. Under  these circumstances the Government rejects the amendment. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 15 and 16 - by leave - taken together, and agreed to. 
Proposed new clause 17. 
in reply - On 25th August last year the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  led for the. Australian Labor Party on this Bill and my comments will relate only to the remarks which he made at that time. Normally one would nol waste time on the extraordinary issue of inaccuracies which the honourable member put together but he saw fit to use these totally inaccurate facts - he called them facts - to attack me and the Broadcasting Control Board. 
I am not sure that I would regard the honourable member as an authority under these circumstances. The honourable member for Blaxland said: 
The Bill is designed to cover up some of the mistakes made in the past by the PostmasterGeneral  (Mr Hulme)  and his adviser, the Broadcasting Control Board and to justify their actions in the future. 
The honourable member also accused me of deliberately breaking the law and he said:  . . the  Postmaster-General has broken both the spirit and the letter of the Act . . .  Lel me say at once that if I or the Broadcasting Control Board have failed to administer the Broadcasting and Television Act strictly in accordance wilh its provisions we are not fit to hold our positions. If the honourable member can find any evidence that we have failed in this way I ask him. to produce it. If he cannot - I know he cannot - I hope he will have the decency to withdraw any suggestion of improper practices by me or members of the Board. 
The Government's policy with respect to the control of broadcasting and television stations has been clearly stated on many occasions. Broadly, the policy is that no person or company should be in a position to control more than 8 broadcasting licences or more than 2 television licences. The . Broadcasting and Television Act was framed with the intention of giving effect to this policy. Notwithstanding the comprehensive provisions of the Act some companies have over the years found ways of circumventing these requirements. In every case when these tactics have been used I have moved to amend the Act, just as I am doing with the present Bill. If the honourable member for Blaxland had any true understanding of this matter he would have known that in 1965 when I introduced some most far reaching amendments to the Act to overcome some of the means of avoidance that had been discovered his own leader, then the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, said:  lt is admirable that the Postmaster-General has at last been stirred to take fresh steps to control the monopolisation in ownership and programming of Australian commercial television stations. 
The legislation to which the now Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  referred on that occasion was, like the present legislation, introduced to prevent circumvention of the Government's intentions. Apparently this is yet another matter upon which the Leader of the Opposition and some members of his Party do not find themselves able to agree. The honourable member for Blaxland bolstered his extraordinary allegations with a collection of what he described as facts which he claimed to have gleaned from the 21st annual report of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board. He said he found them only after very close scrutiny. I can only add that it is a pity he did not scrutinise the very clear and exact information contained in Appendix I of that report a little more closely because if he had he might then have managed to get more of his so-called facts correct. 
I do not wish to take up the time of the House with a long recital but I shall content myself with a few examples of the honourable member's total failure to comprehend the truth. For example, he stated that John Fairfax Ltd owns ali the shares in 2GB Sydney and 2WL Wollongong, all the ordinary shares in 2CA Canberra and a majority of the shares in 3AW Melbourne, 5DN Adelaide and 2LF Young. In fact John Fairfax Ltd does not own one share in any of those companies.  It  does hold a 26 per cent interest in Macquarie Broadcasting Holdings Ltd, which in turn has a prescribed interest - that is to say, more than a 5 per cent shareholding - in the stations I mentioned. The honourable member said, that John Fairfax Ltd had a controlling interest in 4BH Brisbane. It does not. Indeed, Macquarie Broadcasting Holdings, which does own shares in that station, does not even have an interest amounting to a prescribed interest. Worse still the honourable member went on to say: 
Chandlers (Australia) Ltd of Brisbane transferred its shares in 4BH to John Fairfax and Sons Ltd although the company must have fully realised that in doing so it was consenting to a violation of the strict terms of the Act. Although he was not the responsible Minister at the lime the Postmaster-General should have personal knowledge of this transaction. 
I was in fact the responsible Minister at the time. The shares were not transferred as the honourable member suggested but were transferred in parcels of less than 15 per cent to a number of groups which did not include Fairfax. I believe it is true that Chandlers had considered transferring the shares in 4BH to one purchaser but this transaction was specifically prevented by the amendments to the Broadcasting and Television Act which I had introduced, and to which this House had assented, in 1969. 
For the rest of the honourable member's misstatements - I do not propose .to list all of them - let me say that he is apparently unable to distinguish between a controlling interest and a prescribed interest as defined in the Act and that he is further unable to distinguish between those 2 interests and a minor shareholding interest. I believe I should put right the Hansard record in relation to the statements -made by the honourable member for Blaxland who led on behalf of the Opposition in the debate on this Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
Clauses 1 to 13 - by  leave - taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 14. 
After section 90a of the Principal Act the following section is inserted: :90aa.- (J.) For the purposes of this Division, a company shall be deemed (but not to the exclusion of any other person) to be beneficially entitled to, or to an interest in. shares in another company where the shares are, or the interest is, owned by the trustees of, or otherwise held directly or indirectly for the benefit of, tj fund maintained wholly or partly for the purpose of providing pensions, retiring allowances pr other personal benefits to or in respect of all or any employees or directors of the first-mentioned company. (2.) The last preceding sub-section does not apply in relation to shares, or" air interest in shares, thai became owned or held as referred to in that sub-section before the twelfth day of December, One thousand nine hundred and  sixtynine.  so as to deem a company to have a shareholding interest in a company holding a licence, being an interest which the first-mentioned company would have been deemed to have had immediately before that date if that sub-section had been in force immediately .before that date.' 
I move: 
That the following new clause be inserted in the Bill: "17. After section 132 of die Principal Act the following section is inserted: - 132a.  -  (1.) A summons for the appearance before a court of summary jurisdiction of a defendant charged with having committed a prescribed offence may be served upon the defendant by posting a copy of the summons as a registered letter addressed to the defendant at the address shown in the summons, or in any information, complaint or similar document relating to the summons, as his address. (2.) An Affidavit by a person stating that - 
he is an officer of the Postmaster-General's Department; 
he posted, or caused to be posted, a copy of a summons referred to in the affidavit (being a summons that, under the last preceding sub-section, may be served in accordance with, that sub-section) as a registered letter addressed to the defendant at the address shown in the summons, or in any information, complaint or similar document relating to the summons, as '.he address of the defendant; 
to the best of his knowledge, information and belief, the copy of the summons so posted would, in the ordinary course of post, have been delivered before a date specified in the affidavit; and 
he has no reason to believe that the copy of the summons so posted was not delivered before that date, is evidence that the summons was served on the defendant in accordance wilh sub-section (1.) of this section before that date. (3.) Where- 
a summons has been issued for the appearance before a court of summary jurisdiction of a defendant charged with having committed a prescribed offence; 
the defendant does not appear before the court as required by the summons: 
the evidence before the court of the service on the defendant of the summons is an affidavit that, under the last preceding subsection, is evidence that the summons was served on the defendant in accordance with sub-section (1.) of this section; and 
the court has reason to believe thai the defendant did not receive, or may not have received, a copy of the summons, or did not receive, or may not have received, a copy of the summons by such a date as would have given to him a reasonable time to comply with the summons, the court may, before proceeding to hear and determine the charge, require such, things to be done, as, in the opinion of the court, are necessary to ensure that the person has" been informed of the charge and of the time when and the place where the charge will be heard.  (4.) Where- 
a person has been charged with, and convicted by a court of summary- jurisdiction of, a prescribed offence; 
the person did not appear before the court on the hearing of the charge; 
the evidence before the court of the service on the person of the summons requiring him to appear before the court in relation to the charge was an affidavit that, under sub-section (2.) of this section, was evidence that the summons was served on the person in accordance with sob-section (I.) of this section; 
application is made to the court, within two years after the date of the' conviction, by the person, or by an officer of the PostmasterGeneral's Department, .for the conviction to be set aside on the. ground that the person did not receive a 'copy of the summons, or did not receive a dopy of the summons by such a date as would have given to him a reasonable time to comply wilh the summons; and 
the ground on which the application is made is established to the satisfaction of the court, the court may set aside the conviction. . . (5.) Where the court sets aside the conviction, it may, unless it considers that it would be unjust so to do, hear and determine the charge as if the person had nol been convicted of the offence, but, before proceeding to hear the charge, the court shall require such things to be done ,as. in the opinion of the court, are necessary to ensure that the person has been informed of the charge and of the time when and the place where the charge will be heard.  .i  (6.) A court may, on the hearing of an application referred to in sub-section (4.1 of this section, make such order as to costs as it thinks proper. (7.) the provisions of this section have effect in addition to, and not in derogation of. any other law, whether a law of the Commonwealth or of a State or Territory of the Commonwealth, that makes provision for or in relation to the service of summonses. (8.) In this section, "prescribed offence" means - 
an offence against this Act by reason of a contravention of sub-section (6.) of section one hundred and twenty-five, or of subsection (6.) of section one hundred and twenty-six, of this Act; or 
an offence referred to in sub-section (8.) of section one hundred and twenty-five, or in sub-section (8.) of section one hundred and twenty-six, of this Act.'.". 
This amendment adds clause 17. to the Bill. I shall make a few comments although I believe a statement was circulated to honourable members at an earlier- point of  time. It was circulated because it had been intended that this clause would be incorporated in another Bill. Since other aspects of broadcasting and television which were being looked at could not be brought in at that time it was decided that the clause should be made part of this Bill. So that there would be an explanation before we came to the debate on the Bill and. a consideration of the amendment the statement was circulated. I shall read it so that people might understand what is intended and so that it will be included in Hansard. The purpose of the clause is to permit the service; by means of the registered post, of summonses for offences in relation to unlicensed broadcast and television receivers. This will provide an additional means for the service of these summonses in most of the States, lt will not do away wilh the availability of personal service in appropriate cases. In the past, it has been the practice to have summonses for offences relating to unlicensed broadcastand television receivers served on defendants by members of the State police forces, but for some time there have been indications that, in some States at least, there was dissatisfaction with this arrangement. Some State Ministers in charge of police have taken the view that the service of summonses is not a proper police function and that it diverts trained men from more responsible activities. Acting on that view they have directed that police are not to be used for the service of certain summonses for offences under- their own Slate laws. More recently, with increasing demands on the police, it has been made clear to the Commonwealth that some of the States are no longer prepared to see members of the police used to serve summons for the more common Commonwealth statutory offences.  The Chief Secretary for Victoria has already informed the Commonwealth that the Victoria Police will no longer undertake the service of summonses issued under the Broadcasting and Television Act. lt has, therefore, become necessary to arrange immediately for some other means of effecting service of summonses in respect of the common minor offences under the Broadcasting and Television Act in relation to unlicensed broadcast and television receivers. In considering means of effecting service of these summonses, consideration has been given to amend ments made to the law of most of the States during recent years with the object of relieving the police of the need to serve all summonses. Until fairly recently, the laws in force in all States and Territories required that there should be personal service of all summonses for offences. Personal service generally involved delivering a copy of a summons to the defendant himself or leaving a copy in the last known or usual place of abode or business of the defendant with some other person who was apparently an inmate of, or employed at, that place and apparently over the age of 16 years. Between 1962 and 1967 the laws in force in most of the States were amended to enable summonses for relatively minor offences to be served by post. The new procedures seem to have worked satisfactorily in the States and it is desirable that a similar procedure be authorised by Commonwealth law for service of summonses for offences in relation to unlicensed broadcast and television receivers. The new clause has been drawn so as to ensure, first, that there will be a high degree of probability that the defendant will in fact receive a summons that is posted to him and, secondly, that if a defendant does nol receive a summons posted to him there will be a simple procedure by which he or the prosecutor may proceed lo have set aside any conviction that was recorded in circumstances where the defendant was not in fact served wilh a summons or was not served soon enough to give him a reasonable opportunity to answer the charge. In providing for service by registered post, a more secure means of delivery than is required by corresponding laws of the States will be provided. Moreover, the provisions of the clause enabling convictions to be set aside are more favourable to defendants than the provisions in corresponding State legislation. 
arn satisfied thai the registered post will provide a satisfactory vehicle for the service of summonses under the Broadcasting and Television Act. I am also of the opinion that there will be adequate safeguards to ensure that no person will .be unjustly treated. 
The Government is not prepared to accept the amendment which the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart)  has moved. I understand that under the State Acts where service of summons by post is approved the time specified for an appeal against conviction is about 3 months. The honourable member raised a point which related particularly to a person going overseas. Very few people who go overseas do not sign a power of attorney appointing people who would have full responsibility for their affairs and who in  the  normal course would receive all their correspondence and therefore have a substantial chance of knowing what had taken place in relation to such a matter as this. Another important factor is that the Opposition says: 'Let us not have a limit of 2 years. Let us have no limit at all.' 
If a person of 20 years of age were prosecuted he could have the right to appeal until he was 70 or until he died. Where would the court records be? Where would the departmental records be? There would be a hopeless situation if the amendment moved by the honourable member for Lang were accepted. Compared with State legislation on a similar matter 1 feel that the Government is being generous in allowing a 2-year period. For that reason I indicate that we will not accept the. amendment. 
I appreciate the comments made by the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones).  I would be the last person to wipe a proposal for which I believe consideration is justified. I am pleased that the honourable member did not move an off the cuff amendment because it may have been very difficult to accede to it. But I assure him that I will look at the proposal and consult my legal advisers about it. At some future time 1 may be able to indicate to him quite clearly whether we are able to carry out his suggestion or whether the Government feels there are reasons why it should reject it. lt should be appreciated that we in the Department believe we do the maximum possible so that people can avoid prosecution. We send a notice of renewal before the inspectors go into an area. We undertake publicity through newspapers and by radio. I think this gives fair notice to people that they,, should check whether their licence is due for renewal. But this is not what the honourable member was referring to. 
The honourable member was speaking about those people who accept that it is overdue and that it has to be paid. One would have to consider the fine to be imposed because in some cases the licence has not been paid for 3 or 4 years. Of course, this represents a substantial amount of money to many people in the community. If they had to meet the cost of a licence from the time of the expiry dale they would have to pay $20 a year for 3 or 4 years plus a fine. This would be fairly costly. We would have to look at the question of allowing time in which to pay. But I will have a look at the proposal which has been made and, if possible, incorporate it in a future amendment to this Act. 
Amendment to proposed new clause negatived. 
Proposed new clause agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Careful consideration has been given to the question of licensing the operation in Australia of what are known in the United States of America and in certain other countries, including New Zealand, as 'Citizens Radio Services'. These services provide for the use of relatively lowpowered radio equipment on a limited number of frequencies set aside for the purpose for the exchange of communications relating to the business or personal activities of the licensees. The conclusion has been reached, however, that licensing policy in Australia which provides for the authorisation in the 27 megahertz band of lowpowered transceiver units in what are known as handphone Mobile Services adequately caters for all legitimate requirements iti this country. Over 14,000 of these units have been licensed for use by Police, Fire Brigades. Forestry Departments, Civil Defence Organisations and other public bodies and also by private individuals and organisation having a need for short range communication in connection wilh such activities as building construction, properly management, sporting events and for safety and rescue purposes. The extension of licensing policy lo provide for the use of common radio frequencies lor the conduct of all kinds of business and personal conversations would lead, as it has done elsewhere, to a state bordering on chaos in the frequency bands concerned to the detriment of services established to meet the important and useful public and private needs lo which I have referred. Unrestricted radio-communication would also permit the contravention of longstanding Government policy in Australia which provides that the public telephone and telegraph systems which have been provided at considerable public expense should be the normal means of communication between individuals residing in areas where these services are available. 
The Customs Department with which the question was discussed some lime ago has indicated that it is not the practice lo place restrictions on imported goods if similar articles can be freely manufactured and sold locally. The Customs Department, however, is co-operating with my Department by supplying names and addresses of individuals and firms discovered bringing these units into the country. 
Every endeavour is made through Press statements and advertisements to warn the public that use of radio transceiver equipment without a licence is illegal and of the penalties which may be imposed on offenders. A leaflet conveying this message will soon be on distribution at Post Offices. In addition a brochure is available from the Regulatory and Licensing areas of the Post 
Office in capital cities and major provincial centres which sets out the conditions under which licences may be granted for the employment of this type of radio communication. 
The Wireless Telegraphy Act as it now stands does not prohibit the possession or sale of radio-communication transmitting and receiving equipment. The Act is directed against the establishment and use of equipment for the purpose of transmitting messages. Consideration has been given to the tightening of the law to cover possession of equipment capable of being used for this purpose and enquiries are proceeding in this direction. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
lt was decided in February 1950, not to reconstitute the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Broadcasting because die functions of the Committee, advising the Postmaster-General on broadcasting matters, had been absorbed by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board which had been established in 1949. Subsequent amendments to the Broadcasting and Television Act deleted provision for such a committee. 
The Government has no plans lor reestablishment of such a committee, nor is the Government aware of any shortcomings or criticism of the services which would justify such a course, having regard to the functions and competence of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board to deal with such mutters. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (5) As the honourable member will be aware, I announced on 7th May 1970, that there will be an inquiry by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board into frequency modulation broadcasting. From the terms of reference of the inquiry which I provided in my later statement on 14th May, the honourable member will appreciate that the type of matters which he has raised in this question will be encompassed by the inquiry. 1 have already indicated that 1 will in due course make the report of the Board available to honourable members and the public. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Department has made plans to extend the Stock Exchange Recorded Information Service lo Canberra but the date of introduction will depend upon the outcome of some negotiations currently taking place with the Sydney Stock Exchange, and resolving some technical problems in Canberra. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1.) lo (3) The Television Programme Standards of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board prohibit the use of the process known as subliminal perception or similar techniques in television programmes or advertisements. It is therefore the responsibility of licensees to ensure that such techniques are not used and therefore to check that programme matter does not involve these techniques. The Board informs me that 1 there is no evidence of the use of subliminal perception techniques in Australian television programming or advertising. 
I have made statements on a number of occasions in relation to the seventh Stage of the introduction of television which provides for  38  additional stations, mainly in the lesser settled areas of Australia. A number of these, as the honourable member has said, will be in his electorate. Recently the honourable member took part in the opening of the Mount lsa station. 1 understand that the Cloncurry station will be opened within the next  3  months and  I  believe ail the stations planned for the line between Townsville and Mount Isa will be in operation by the end of this calendar year.  I  have also noted that the Norseman station is expected to be opened around about April this year. This is an indication that the Australian Broadcasting Control Board and those responsible for the erection of the additional stations are hard at it trying to bring about the result we all hope for. As for colour television,  I  announced some short time ago that the Government at this point of time had not made a decision as to when colour television would be adopted and  I  indicated that at least  3  years notice would be given of it. The honourable member may be sure that the introduction of colour television whenever it does come will not interfere with the plans adopted in relation to black and white television. 
The answer to the honourable members question is as follows:  (I), (2) and (3) At a meeting wilh the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the relevant Unions on 15th July 1970, the Board and my Department indicated that in principle they accept the concept of a 5-day week Monday to Friday or 5 shifts within a- calendar week, where such working arrangements, within the framework of the 40-hour week, ate shown to be practicable and without detriment to the services (including trading hours) and the standards of service to the public to he provided. 
Agreement was also reached between , the parties on the establishment of, 4 . Joint Working Parties to undertake detailed analyses of the practical effect, within the above framework, of the ACTU proposals. 
Following examination of the Working Party Reports, the Board and my Department met the ACTU and Postal Unions on 21st October 1970, and offered to introduce, within the framework of the existing standard working week of 40 hours, working arrangements based on ' ordinary duty over 5 days or 5 shifts per week for all staff in the Post Office not already working on this basis. 
The Postal Unions asked for time to consider the of  re  rs a nit a further meeting was held on 12th November 1970. The outcome was that some Unions accepted and others rejected the offer. Discussions are to proceed, between the parties on a bilateral basis in relation to some remaining aspects of the Unions' claims. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (.1) At a meeting with representatives of the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the relevant Postal Unions on 15th July 1970, the Board and my Department indicated that in principle they accept the concept of a 5-day week Monday to Friday or 5 shifts within a calendar week, where such working arrangements, within the framework of the 40 hour week are shown to be practicable and without detriment to the services (including trading hours) and the standards of service to the public lo be provided. 
Agreement was also reached between the parties at the -meeting on the establishment of 4 Joint Working- Parties-to undertake detailed analyses of the practical effect, within the above framework, of the ACTU proposals. 
A further meeting of parties was held on 21st October .1970, at. which the Board and Department announced that following extensive investigations of the working parlies studies, they had concluded that it .was practicable lo accept in full the ACTU representations. 
This means that the Board and me Department have offered to introduce within the framework of the existing standard working week of 40 horns, working arrangements based on ordinary duty over 5 days or 5 shifts per week for all staff in the Post Office not already working on this basis. 
The Postal Unions asked for time to consider the offers and a further conference was held on 12lh November 1970. The outcome was thai some Unions accepted and others rejected the offer. Discussions are to proceed between the parties on a bilateral basis in relation to some remaining aspects of the Unions' claims. 
On 24th September 1970, I announced that current Saturday trading hours at post offices would continue. The survey on Saturday trading showed that there was still a substantial number of people requiring postal services on Saturdays. Taking account also of other commercial practices and services to the community, the Government decided not to alter the present trading hours. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The Union of Postal Clerks and Telegraphists proposed that trading hours be reduced from 9 a.m.-11 a.m. to 9 a.m.-10 a.m. on Saturdays at post offices where trading figures indicated a strong demand for service. 
On 24th September 1970, in response to representations from various staff associations for the closing of Post Offices and reduction in trading hours, I announced that following a survey conducted of the business transacted at Post Offices, the Government bad decided that Saturday trading hours at Post Offices would continue. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) The Union of Postal Clerks and Telegraphists did request that public opinion be sampled regarding extension of Friday evening trading in post offices. This request was received  at the  time that  a  general market survey  was  being conducted by the Department of customer attitudes to postal services. On 24th September 1970, I announced that following the abovementioned survey, which showed that there was still a substantial number of people requiring postal services on Saturdays, the Government had decided that Saturday trading hours at post offices would continue. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Payments to sporting bodies for the rights to televise sporting events amounted to $137,904. To this has to be added $75,720 in direct expenses incurred in the production and presentation of sporting events on television, so that the direct expenses for these programmes totalled $213,624. 
Direct programme expenses for both radio and television amounted to $13,35S,298 as shown in Appendix 1 to the Commission's Report to Parliament. The amount paid to televise sporting events therefore represents 1.6 per cent of total programme expenses in both media. 
As the contractual arrangements with the various sporting organisations are. confidential, the A.B.C. is not free to disclose the individual amounts paid. 
For the information of honourable members, I present a financial and statistical bulletin on the activities of the Australian Post Office for theyear ended 30th June 1970. 
I am unable to answer the question at this moment. It is very difficult to keep in one's mind all the detail associated with television installations around Australia. I will consult the Australian' Broadcasting Control Board, Which is responsible for the technical detail in conjunction with the Post Office, ascertain the date of operation of the station and inform the honourable member by letter. 
Once again I say that I am surprised at the ignorance of the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating).  The honourable gentleman has suggested - I use his own term - that there has been gross violation of the Act. Let me go back a little into history because the honourable gentlemen apparently has nol gone back to what happened in 1964. Prior to 1964 a 15 per cent voting right in a television company represented a controlling interest. Many companies involved themselves in purchases of shares which on a basis of one vote per share gave them voting rights considerably in excess of 15 per cent. The articles of association of the companies were altered to provide that no quantity of shares represented more than 15 per cent of the voting rights. Therefore in legal terms these companies were quite correct and they were able to accumulate a controlling interest in more than 2 stations, which was the principle adopted in the Act and was also the policy of the Government. When I became Postmaster-General I had this matter on my plate. It had been considered by a Cabinet committee, by the then Attorney-General,  Sir Garfield  Barwick, and by the the then PostmasterGeneral, who is now  Sir Charles  Davidson. When I became Postmaster-General it was my responsibility to try to find a solution, to this problem. 
In December 1964 I made a public statement indicating that what the Government intended to do by amending the Act was nol- to cause the people who had those stations to divest themselves of the shares in companies in excess of 2, because what they had done was quite legal, but to make it impossible for them to gain controlling interest in other television stations. If the honourable member reads the Act carefully he will note that those companies which had a controlling interest in excess of 2 were protected by the Act and were not called upon to divest themselves of those additional interests over and above 2. Therefore there is no gross violation of the Act whatsoever. What was done was completely in accord with the Act as it had been passed by this Parliament. I suggest that the honourable member should read the debate which took place in 1965 to see what was done by myself and by the Governemnt when we made amendments to the Act. Also, he will be able to see what members of the Opposition had to say. lt is very easy of course to say that we must cause a company to divest itself of its substantial interests. But believe me, the television companies by their structure in those days was substantially in the hands of the Australian public. The honourable member in a speech last August spoke of the public interest. Surely the interest of shareholders, who are members of the public, is a consideration of the public interest. Therefore we took into account the public interest and we amended the Act, having regard to ali of the circumstances, in a way that we believed to be a reasonable adjustment. A similar situation developed comparatively recently in regard to broadcasting stations. Again if the honourable member reads the history of this matter and the Act he will find that those who had accumulated controlling interests in more than 8 radio stations were protected. Exactly the same principle was applied to radio stations as was applied to television stations in 1965. 
I believe that honourable members of this House should be reasonably temporate in their language. Surely if a Minister is administering an Act of Parliament in accordance with the provisions of that Act he cannot be accused of gross violation of the Act. If in fact the Act has been interpreted correctly surely imputations of contravention should not be made against a Minister. This is what the honourable member should be concerned with. If he has a view about the law being wrong he is quite entitled to express it but he is not entitled to impute wrong motives or actions on the part of public servants or indeed on the part of the Minister who is responsible for the Act. This is what I put to the honourable member the other day. I uaid that in fact the Australian Broadcasting Control Board or myself were acting in violation of the Act and we were approving contraventions of the Act we were doing so in extreme circumstances and I say extreme circumstances because this is a terribly difficult area. When the honourable member is in Melbourne he should spend an hour with the Board because this is the organisation which has more detailed information about holdings in the field of broadcasting and television than anyone else, including the broadcasting and television companies that are concerned. 
At present I am looking at a matter which arises under the Act. I refer to the situation where a company which did have controlling interests and was allowed to keep them in terms of the 1965 Act invests as part of a portfolio investment in a company which is not related in any way to it and which in fact has a 5 per cent interest in a television station somewhere. This flows back and alters the investing company's interest in television in terms of the Act. In such a course the Board would have to try to do something about it. Therefore, 1 believe from time to time there is a slight element of contravention, but I do not believe that any reasonable person would expect that we should make people sell hundreds of thousands of dollars worth of assets- 
That is pure poppycock; they do not acquire them by stealth at all. They go on to the open market and make a purchase as a portfolio investment in the same way as the honourable member invests his surplus funds. In these circumstances I do not intend to do other than endeavour to correct these small contraventions. I will endeavour to do this as far as 1 possibly can by amendments of the Act which could be regarded as reasonable by the vast majority of people within Australia. Therefore, I do invite the honourable member, quite conscientiously, to go to the Australian Broadcasting Control Board, discuss the matter with the Board, see what the implications are and see what the history is. I believe that, if he does that, he can criticise the Act and what is in the Act as much as he likes. But it is this imputing of improper motives to me, or a previous Minister or to the people who exercise these major controls that concerns me. 
1 move: 
That the Bill be now read  a  second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the financial provisions of the Overseas Telecommunications Act 1946-68 so as to provide, from 1st April 1970, for the implementation of revised financial arrangements between the Commonwealth and the Overseas Telecommunications Commission (Australia). The Bill also provides for an amendment to that section of the Act relating to retirement conditions. Since its inception the Commission's financial arrangements with the Commonwealth have been governed bv the provisions of the Overseas Telecommunications Act which are essentially unchanged since being drafted over 24 years ago. The Treasurer has provided finance in the form crf advances on terms fixed by him which have always included liability for interest. Income which the Commission mav have obtained was exempted from taxa1 ion. and the derived net profit from the Commission's operations has been used each year as directed by myself, as PostmasterGeneral, with the concurrence of the Treasurer. Up to and including 1967-68 the direction has been that the net profit be retained by the Commission. 
Treasury advances totalled S4.4m in the first 15 years of the Commission's operations and retained profits in the same period only $4. 7m. However, the total retained profits had risen to $29.5m 6 years later, whilst Treasury advances now totalled $22. 5m. This was the position as at 31st March 1968. Coming as a direct result of the employment of coaxial submarine telephone cables and satellite communications and the increasing use of services provided by the Commission, this significant change has emphasised the need for review of the financial arrangements. The significant build-up of cash from profits and depreciation recoveries has occurred despite tariffs that compare more than favourably with world rates along with a relatively heavy and continuing programme of capital expenditure on new and replacement assets. In these circumstances it is proposed that the financial relations between the Commission and the Commonwealth be altered to provide: 
that the nature of the Commonwealth's investment in the Commission be varied - from interestbearing Treasury advances to capital; 
that the Commission's income be subject to income tax; 
that in lieu- of the interest that has been paid in the past on Treasury advances, a dividend be paid each year on the capital. A commencing rate of 7i% is proposed; and 
that the Commission's requirements for new capital investment, additional to retained profits, be provided from the Budget or from authorised borrowings. 
Achievement of the reconstruction of the capital structure will be by conversion of the existing Treasury advances to capital and by transferring from the Commission's retained past profits, an amount sufficient to bring the initial capital to $35m. At present Treasury advances to the Commission stand at  17.5m, following repayment of S5m to the Treasury in 1968. The proposals were designed for introduction in the financial year which commenced on 1st April 1968, but for a number of reasons this was not achieved. However, on the recommendation of the Commission and with the concurrence of the Treasurer, I directed that in respect of the profit derived from that year, an amount of S6.47m b; paid to the Commonwealth Treasury. This represented a payment in lieu of income tax and of a dividend on the Commonwealth's funds employed. For the year ended 31st March 1970 provision has been made for a similar payment of S6.91m to the Treasury. 
The proposed financial arrangements are similar to those for other Commonwealth statutory business undertakings. In the future it is anticipated that the Commission will require only modest drawings of new capital from the Commonwealth whilst there will be from time to time a need for a review of the level of capital. The Bill provides that, with the concurrence of the Treasurer, 1 may direct the Commission to transfer further amounts to the capital account from retained profits. 
The Bill also seeks to amend section 24 of the Overseas Telecommunications Act. This section determines the conditions  under which officers of the Commission may retire or be retired. At present, whilst prescribing a maximum age of 65 for male officers, a female officer must retire on attaining an age of 60 years, lt is proposed that this restriction on female officers be removed and that in cases considered desirable by the Commission, an officer, whether male or female, who has attained the age of 65 years may continue in the service of the Commission for a period not exceeding 12 months. These amendments provide conditions which are similar to existing provisions in the Commonwealth Public Service Act. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
My Department receives very many requests for the issue of special stamps covering a wide range of subjects. However, because our production facilities allow only a few stamps to be issued each year, all of these requests must be examined on a very selective basis. 
The many requests for stamps, particularly for the recognition of worthwhile causes and organisations, present special problems in distinguishing between the merits of the various proposals put forward by the interested parties. We have had to refuse many of these requests from worthy organisations, both Australian and international, and in recent years we have been able to issue stamps for only a few organisations, such as Rotary, Lions Clubs and YWCA. In this connection, and because of the number of requests, we have had to stipulate that anniversaries of Australian significance, as a general principle, must be at least of 50 years, or multiples of 50 years. While I appreciate the position in the community of Rural Youth in Australia I am sorry that I am unable to meet this request for the issue of a special stamp. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
$42,000 
$55,000 
The telephone directory advertising referred to by the Honourable Member forms part of action taken by the Post Office to reduce the cost of providing the Telephone Numbers Information Service. This free service to callers is costing more than $1 million each year for the six State capital cities alone. Although it is primarily provided to enable callers to obtain required numbers not in their current directories, studies indicated that about 70% of inquiries received were for numbers in the directories. 
The objective of the advertising campaigns which have so far been undertaken in 'Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Perth is to motivate people to look in their directories for required numbers before deciding to call the Telephone Numbers Information Service for assistance. In Brisbane, where the first advertising campaign was undertaken last year, the volume of inquiries for numbers has been reduced substantially and it is estimated that a saving of $65,000 in running the service will be achieved over three years. In addition, the reduced traffic enables a better service to be given to callers. Although it is too early to assess the results in other capital cities, it is expected that cost savings of a similar order will be obtained. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In a letter of 11th November, I advised the honourable member in the following terms: 
Due to the nature of the industry, in which free lance activity is prevalent, it is difficult to arrive at a reliable estimate of the number of actors, writers and producers who are in full-time employment in television at any given time. I can say, however, that according to figures supplied to the Australian Broadcasting Control Board, full- time employment by television stations and independent production companies did not vary significantly in numbers over the past two years. 
I have received representations from members of Actors Equity, the Writers and Producers Guild and other industry employee organisations on the matter of the Australian content of television programmes. The matter is being investigated by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board at the present time, and because most complex issues are involved, about which there are conflicting points of view, it will be several weeks before the Board is in a position to announce its findings. 
No. As explained in the answer to question one, it is not possible to provide reliable estimates of the level of employment outside those permanently employed by television stations and independent production companies. 
Since I wrote to the honourable member, the Australian Broadcasting Control Board (on 13 th November 1970) has announced new requirements for Australian content in commercial television programmes. These involve substantial increases in the amount of Australian programmes to be televised in the most popular viewing hours from September 1971, to further increases from July, 1972. 
Once again I remind members of the House that the Australian Broadcasting Commission has almost complete autonomy in relation to its programmes. 
Well, I mean almost because if honourable members rend the Broadcasting and Television. Act - and I would have thought that most honourable members have read the Act - they would understand the exceptions. I have explained them to the House previously. I will refer to the ABC the matter of -the film raised by the honourable member to see whether it is prepared to give me the information which the honourable member seeks. 
Honourable members will realise that an industrial dispute in the British Post Office is now entering its sixth or seventh week. Of course there has been a good deal of disruption of industry in the United Kingdom and of correspondence which passes between Australia and the United Kingdom. I think it is fair to say that the British Post Office employees have no regard whatsoever for the public interest in relation to this matter nor, in some respects, have the employees of the Australian Post Office. What has happened is that no mail, telegrams or cables have been transferred between Australia and England since the Post Office industrial trouble commenced in the United Kingdom. Some mail did arrive in Australia but it has not been distributed. 
The United Kingdom Post Office is not completely responsible for the telegraph services of that country. It has granted franchises to the International Telephone and Telegraph Co. and Western Union International as well as some Canadian companies. These were in fact able to process cables irrespective of the strike in the United Kingdom and for a short period there was movement of those cables when they reached Australia. However, when the Australian Postal Workers Union realised this it declared a black ban. It removed that ban and then the Union of Postal Clerks and Telegraphists applied a black ban. The APWU then came back into the picture so that now both have applied this black ban and there cannot be any movement of these cablegrams out of the Post Office. At the moment, I understand, there are some 232 held in post offices in Australia and it is unlikely that these will be delivered to the persons to whom they are addressed until the British Post Office industrial troubles are overcome. 
I do not want to delay the House but I should make one or two comments and since the comment of the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  about New Guinea is probably uppermost in the minds of honourable members perhaps I should commence by referring to it. He said that Port Moresby is only 500 miles from Cairns, where there is a telecommunications station. Of course, there is another station at Madang. When a survey was made of the route to New Guinea and South East Asia the Port Moresby area was surveyed. It was discovered that the sea bed, with its shifting sands, was such that it was not a viable proposition to construct the station there. Expert advice was that it should be established at Madang. I appreciate that Madang is not the most populated area of New Guinea, but I assure the honourable member for Wills, and other honourable members, that discussions are proceeding and projects are in hand to have a switching station at Lae in an endeavour to connect the more populated areas of New Guinea. This is an internal matter. It will be readily appreciated that the Overseas Telecommunications Commission has a responsibility only for traffic from Aus tralia outwards. In New Guinea the traffic is from Madang outwards and it is an internal New Guinea communications responsibility to look after, those operations. 
The honourable member questioned charges. I think this matter was raised also by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean).  We must understand the organisation of overseas telecommunications. This is not an area in which Australia can act unilaterally: It must act in co-operation with other countries. Cooperation was necessary in the installation of submarine cables, in the provision of satellite communications, and, earlier, in the establishment of the radio telegraph system. With other countries, Australia has contributed to the capital cost. In the early days there was an agreement between the United Kingdom, Canada and Australia but as the communications service moved into South East Asia other Commonwealth countries were brought into the partnership. Necessarily there had to be agreement between the partners about what was done. I believe that the enhanced profit to the Australian overseas telecommunications service has come about because of the transit service that we provide between South East Asia and America and South East Asia and the United Kingdom. We get some share of the revenue from those services, although we perform little more than a switching operation. 
It may be, but nevertheless it helps to explain why there is a problem in the charging operations. Perhaps I may be permitted to use another illustration, but I should not like this to be accepted as exact. It may be that between Australia and New Zealand there is a determined rate. Australia could reduce the rate for calls outwards from Australia, but this would upset the New Zealanders because many New Zealanders, wanting to call Australia, would reverse the charges and the New Zealand Government, or the New Zealand overseas telecommunications service, would be without that revenue. This indicates that just as we required cooperation for the setting up of the organisation so we required co-operation on the charges which are made for its use. Australia is in an advantageous position having regard to the transit traffic which travels from Europe or from South East Asia through our terminal in Sydney. Honourable members will appreciate that this is not quite as simple as might have appeared on the surface. Australia does not have complete control. 
This is not to say that there have not been some reductions in charges. 1 shall not detail them all but in the telex service - and telex is one of the newer inventions in the communications area - there have been quite substantial reductions in charges. The telex in an automatic operation and originally provision was made for a minimum of 3 minutes. That minimum has been altered to one minute and the charge per minute has been reduced. The same has been done in respect of the telephone service between Australia and New Zealand. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports referred to the use of satellites and he will be interested to know that the original charge for television programmes transmitted by satellite was $1,400 for the first 10 minutes and $50 for each additional minute. Today it is $850 for the first 10 minutes and$40 for each additional minute. Those charges apply to transmission through Intelsat 3. The introduction of the Intelsat 3 satellite, which carries a lot more channels than didIntelsat 2, has given the opportunity for more economic operations in that particular area. I do not know whether the honourable member for Melbourne Ports wants me to comment on what would happen if we did reduce the charges, whether there would be more calls at lower costand whether it would affect television.I think I have made a sufficient explanation for himto appreciate the problems that exist in this area. 
Myfinal point is that this is a Government undertaking. We need not have done what is proposed in this Bill. We could have continued on the present basis. We could have paid back to the Treasury a substantial part of the profit or all of the profit if we wanted to do so without worrying about income tax or dividends. It must be appreciated that the Overseas Telecommunications Commission operates in a business area and that what we are doing is reasonably well understood as a comparable accountancy operation within the business community and is not merely a Government department involved in one total payment into and out of the Trea sury. In my view it does not much matter whether the money is kept within the OTC or it is made available to the Treasury. Money which is made by a Government organisation ought to be used for the purposes of the Australian people either through the Government or by indirect payments and that is the basis on which this organisation will continue to operate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
One of the aims of the reduced rales is to attract business at times most suited to the Post Office and give a more even spread of traffic by decreasing the peak loads at the times mentioned by the honourable member. 
These conditions are regularly reviewed and were recently confirmed in principle as being the most suitable to the Post Office. However, some limited extensions are under trial but no firm conclusions can be drawn from these at present. 
Papua and New Guinea: Investments by Superannuation Funds (Question  Nil. 2410) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information requested by the honourable member is not available to me. 
I have to admit that there is some difficulty in relation to the first account which is prepared by the computer as against the normal accounting machine, and it is a fact that the Post Office is using computers in the preparation of telephone accounts for metropolitan subscribers in both Sydney and Melbourne. Because of the varying dates on which telephones are installed and because we have endeavoured to get a fixed date for the rendering of accounts on the first account coming off a computer there is apparently a confusing debit and credit. But at the same time I understand that with items in the miscellaneous area there is more description than there was on the old accounts. 1 will speak to the Department, which is always very willing to consider representations from members of Parliament or members of the public in relation to improvements in the system which we adopt. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Officer-in-Charge of each telephone exchange is authorised to grant priority to trunk line calls where a request for urgent treatment is made and the caller indicates the nature of the urgency. For example, priority would be granted to calls concerning serious illness or death, urgent Police calls, calls in connection with the breakdown of public utility services, or other circumstances which, in the opinion of the Officer-in-Charge, warrant preferential treatment. 
In addition, telephone operating staff give priority to all trunk calls made by or on behalf of the Governor-General and State Governors, Federal and State Ministers, the  Speaker  of the House of Representatives and the  President  of the Senate, the Leader and  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives, the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate and Heads of Diplomatic Missions. All emergency calls such as those relating to the safety of aircraft or ships, bushfires, floods, cyclones, etc., where the caller indicates the nature of the call, are also given priority. 
See answer to (1.). 
There is no specific legislative provision covering priority trunk calls. The matters mentioned in the answer to (1) are covered by the standing instructions issued to all supervisory officers and operators. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The audience ratings for 'At Home This Morning' were marginally higher in some areas than for 'Morning Call'. 
The audience response to 'At Home This Morning', as shown in independent surveys taken in 1970, did not reach the level which the ABC reasonably expected. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Based on the statistics furnished to the Australian Broadcasting Control board by the commercial broadcasting and television stations following the Senate election, the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The honourable member and many other honourable members would know that the weather conditions in Queensland during the last few months have not been very suited to - 
Mount Bellenden Ker is covered by fog and mist on the average for considerable periods of every day. The weather conditions that could apply there would not necessarily apply in Cairns or along the adjacent coastal belt. In fact, weather conditions have caused delay in this project. I explained when this project was commenced that weather would be a hazard. There are also other problems associated with engineering and these are within the province of my colleague the Minister for Works in another place. I will contact him to ascertain the details and results of tenders which have been called and contracts which have been let. I will advise the honourable member of this information and the expected date of completion of the project. 
lt seems to me that this matter of public importance is very similar to other matters of public importance which have been raised by the Opposition. It is very easy for honourable members opposite to rise in their places and, having done some research and having gathered some notes together, criticise the Government for not having acted on every suggestion which they bring forward. I think there is no doubt that the Australian people, as well as the members of this Parliament, recognise the problems of pollution and the problems in the environment which result from pollution. Indeed the Government has moved in relation to various aspects of this matter. Of course no credit is given to the Government by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Vvhitiam),  but nevertheless something is being done. I shall come later to the Office of the Environment. 
I remind honourable members, as the Leader of the Opposition has done, that rivers and streams in Australia do not. flow merely within a particular State. Many rivers and streams flow into other States and they may create pollution problems in those States. I believe that it is a hopeless proposition to put before the Parliament that pollution is merely a Commonwealth responsibility and that the States must play an inferior role in this matter. We know that the substantial increases which have occurred in our population and in all of our industries have had an effect on harbours and the atmosphere, particularly in the congested areas. But there is nothing novel about this situation. The position is worse in other countries, and because they have been so seriously affected a good deal of investigation has been carried out in those countries. A good deal of information on pollution is available to the Commonwealth and to the States of Australia. In March 1970 the then Prime Minister,  Mr Gorton,  in an address to Australian Jaycees said: 
We as a Government are only too conscious that in developing this great nation of ours we must take care to protect and preserve our environment. Prosperity is of little consolation to a people who have lost those things that contribute to the quality of life. . . . 
Your organisation is to be commended for seeking to awaken in the individual a sense of responsibility for protecting his environment. Pollution not only involves governments and civicminded groups such as yours, but everyone in the community. 
The Leader of the Opposition would, of course, seek to put the responsibility completely on the Commonwealth Government. He knows that there are limitations to what can be done in so many areas which perhaps in a philosophical sense are deserving of some attention. He has no responsibility in providing the wherewithal of manpower or funds with which to deal with problems as adequately as they should be dealt with. In November 1970 the then Prime Minister charing his campaign on the Senate election made further statements in relation to this matter. He said: 
There is a mounting, and justified, concern in Australia at the risks of environmental pollution. 
Such pollution is not the inevitable by-product of advanced technology and population increase, but it does represent a failure to take fully into account the environmental consequences of our actions, and of the disposal of waste products by individuals and factories. 
The results in Australia are not yet approaching the catastrophic results which are threatening to occur in the more heavily industrialised and more heavily populated countries. 
But the time to begin to correct present pollution and to prevent increasing pollution is now. 
The State Governments are showing an awareness of this and the CSIRO has been carrying out a wide range of investigations into environmental quality, lt has indeed been engaged in some  48  projects concerned with such matters as studying biological control of insect pests as distinct from insecticide control - methods of treatment of factory effluent, control of the ash content of coal. 
But in many cases pollution can best be tackled by a National Body - since, for instance, pollution of a stream in one State can lead to pollution of a river in another State. 
We therefore have taken the decision to set up a Commonwealth Office of the Environment under the control of the Prime Minister's Department. 
This Office will be responsible for advising the Commonwealth and recommending to us action that should be taken to prevent or reduce pollution arising out of the activities of any Commonwealth Department or Authority. 
We shall also approach the States to seek the formation of a National Advisory Council to advise the Commonwealth, and the States,  on  action to be taken in areas where co-ordination can properly be achieved. 
Following that the then Prime Minister wrote to the State Premiers suggesting that there should be a conference of officers to discuss the matter of pollution and the problems of the environment. Four of the States indicated their willingness almost immediately to participate in those discussions. The Premiers of New South Wales and Victoria said that they were not yet ready but that they desired to set up their own organisations to deal with pollution and environmental problems so that they might have some information relating to the problems in their own States. They would then be pleased to discuss the matter with Commonwealth officials. As a result the Commonwealth felt there was not a great deal of virtue in discussing these matters with 4 States when the 2 major States, which everybody would agree have the grestest development in terms of industry, were not at that time participants in any discussions. 
Because of the decision of those 2 States the intention of the then Prime Minister to bring down legislation in relation to these problems was delayed. I think it is important to remember that (here is now an Office of the Environment which has been mentioned in the new administrative arrangements and. as the Leader of the Opposition said, that Office will come under the Department of the Vice-President of the Executive Council. The Leader of the Opposition may sneer at this Department if he so wishes. This new Department is something which, with a good many other things, has come about with a change of Prime. Ministership, lt may be that is not the sum total of its responsibility within that Department. I suggest that we should not accept the criticism offered by the Leader of the Opposition that the Prime Minister is indifferent to these problems. The Prime Minister is far from indifferent in regard to these problems. It is very easy for the Opposition to adopt the attitude that the Commonwealth government should do everything. The Leader of the Opposition, being a Queen's Counsel, should know that the Commonwealth has different responsibilities lo those of the States and in so many areas it is essential that there should be discussion between the States and the Commonwealth lo enable solutions to be reached so as to achieve the best possible result rather than have a fragmented type of co-operation which leads to confusion in the minds of the public and confusion in the minds of those who are responsible for dealing with the various problems. 
A report was presented to this Parliament yesterday on the threat of the crownofthorns starfish to the Great Barrier Reef. Was that a matter on which nothing was done by the Commonwealth Government? That was a problem which was regarded as part of the responsibility of the Commonwealth. Those honourable members who come from States other than Queensland may think that this matter was not important but as a Queenslander I can tell them that it was tremendously important from the point of view of the Queensland Government and it was accepted as such by the Commonwealth Government, which participated in the appointment of a committee, to inquire into the problem. The report presented yesterday clearly indicated a desire on the part of the committee 10 continue research into this matter. The Great Barrier Reef can very readily be described as a national asset. The same situation applied in relation to oil drilling on the Great Barrier Reef. The Commonwealth unhesitatingly joined with Queensland in the appointment of a committee to investigate problems which could flow from oil drilling on the Reef. To suggest that nothing has been done by the Government or that the Prime Minister is indifferent is, of course, completely incorrect. 
The Leader of the Opposition made reference to committees which had been set up by this Parliament such as the Senate Select Committee on Air Pollution, the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution and the House of Representatives Select Committee on Wildlife Conservation. The Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation - a Commonwealth instrumentality - has spent a great deal of time and money on research and its officers have been engaged in making assessments in regard to many matters adversely affecting this country. There is no doubt that there has been tremendous technological progress in recent years. Take for example the progress of the plastics industry. I do not know whether any honourable member in this House has ever tried to bring about the rotting of plastics, but I think honourable members will find that it is terribly difficult to do so. Many of today's waste products are far more difficul I to dispose of than those of 10 years or 20 years ago. lt may be- that we will need further technological development if we are effectively to dispose of our waste products. This is not a matter which we should rush into. I believe it is a matter which requires steady progress if we are to obtain solutions to the various problems. 
 I mentioned the Office of the Environment, which has come under the Department of the Vice-President of the Executive Council. There is no justification for continuing with appointments to that Office until we can meet the States. The Commonwealth has every intention of making this an important aspect of this Department's work. I took over responsibility for this Department only a week or 10 days ago. Surely the honourable member does not expect me to be a miracle worker and to solve at once all the problems which were referred to by the Leader of the Opposition this afternoon; but I can assure the House that this is a matter of importance as far as the Government and the Department are concerned. 
We must also take note that it was only last week that the present Prime Minister saw the  chairman  of the committee which had investigated the crown of thorns starfish. The Prime Minister told him that he was prepared to put before the Cabinet the question of a public inquiry into pollution. There will be not only discussions between Commonwealth and State officers but probably a public inquiry. The Leader of the Opposition may be able to give evidence, together with other people who believe that they are authorities in this field. The community could acquaint itself through the mass media with the evidence presented to this committee and be wiser about the facts. This may be the beginning of a substantial impact on the problem. I know that work on the protection of the environment has been done in the transport area and I hope that my colleague, the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon),  will participate in this debate and that he will deal with pollution in his area of responsibility. 
As I indicated after the presentation of the last Budget, there is a broad area involved in the implementation of new policy in relation to country telephone subscribers. In reply to the specific question which the honourable member has asked, I would inform him and the House that progress is being made but that there are some 25,000 people who come within this new policy, some of whom will be new subscribers and some of whom had part privately erected telephone lines which had to be upgraded by the department, and there are others in the two categories which the honourable member mentioned. It will be a considerable time - probably up to 10 or 12 years - before the full programme can be put into effect, but we are working on it. The answer to the specific question is that 551 cases have been dealt with by way of refund or waiving of debts and these cases have involved approximately $340,000. Overall, some 1,500 cases involving either new subscribers or the upgrading of PPE lines have been dealt with, at a cost in excess of Sim, since the policy was first announced. 
The question of the printing and publication of telephone directories is based substantially on economics and service to the community. It has been found in the larger capital cities that  the binding of telephone directories is a very difficult problem, particularly in Melbourne and Sydney where it has been necessary to supply a directory with the telephone subscribers and numbers and an additional book of pink pages, both being approximately the same size. However, the Department has consulted outside authorities and has looked at the economics of the provision of telephone directories. It is believed that the new basis on which they are being used is the most appropriate one having regard to usage and the economics relating to the matter. If the honourable member can give me details of particular problems in a particular area I will have them investigated. Where there appears to be an element of inconvenience for somebody frequently wanting to make calls to an adjoining area a free telephone directory for that area could be made available to such persons. 
The honourable member asked about the cost of advertising in the pink pages. I can neither confirm nor deny the amounts he indicated. 1 do know that it has been many years since an increase was made in advertising rates. Where the pink pages are printed by outside people on the basis of tenders received by the Post Office for this operation the actual costs for advertising are approved by the Post Office. Some relativity must be maintained with advertising rates charged in the commercial world. Having regard to the fact that it is probably more than 10 years in some cases since there has been an increase, merely to use a comparison between last year and this year is unfair and unreasonable. 
1 am afraid that 1 have not in my mind the detail of the answer to the question asked by the honourable member. I will obtain a statement covering the whole matter and make it in the House or make it available to honourable members. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. Disregarding any rental adjustments due to growth in individual local call areas, telephone  rental  cahrges  for pensioners have increased by between $2.09 and $4.91 since 1st May 1960. The increases quoted by the honourable member are apparently based on the misconception that the one-third pensioner rental concession was in force as at 1st May 1960. However, as the concession was not introduced until 1st October 1964. pensioners were paying the same rental in May 1960, as any other residential subscriber. 
to (6) see answer to (1). In relation to part (4) of the Question, the 165 per cent increase in telephone rentals in Canberra since 1960 is due to its inclusion in the capital city rental classification in 1964. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. The Commission has made such determinations from time to time. 
The last occasion on which the Commission made such a determination was 8th November 1967. The Commission then determined that political matter and controversial matter would be presented in its' programmes broadcast in Papua/New Guinea, accurately and impartially to ensure that a balance of views was available to its listeners. 
The Commission further determined that during the election period in .1968, it would not allocate time on its stations to political parties. This determination was made in accordance with the provisions of Section 116 of the Broadcasting and Television Act. The Commission considered that, at that time, political- parties in Papua/New Guinea were in an early stage of development, and there was evidence to indicate that the majority of candidates did not belong to a party. 
There were, moreover, too many candidates for each to be given time. 
A similar view was taken by the Papua/New Guinea Administration in respect of its radio stations. 
The Commission's stations in Papua/New Guinea broadcast news about the 1968 elections on a factual and objective basis, and also presented programmes aimed at familiarising listeners wilh electoral and voting procedures. 
The Commission will review this determination prior to the next elections in the light of developments in Papua/New Guinea since 1967. 
I do not know the full arrangements by which waterside workers are called to particular jobs on particular days.  I  understand that, generally speaking, notification of times is printed in the daily newspapers and that the custom has been for radio stations to broadcast such times. I am not sure whether the commercial stations are the ones which broadcast the times. From the honourable member's question, I assume that commercial stations made the announcements. They, of course, have the right to determine their programmes. However, I will be pleased to have a look at the matter the honourable member has put to me to see whether it is possible for waterside workers to be informed in the modern way, by radio, or by such other means as are available. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The two principal national radio programmes for which the Australian Broadcasting Commission engages commentators are 'Notes on the News' and 'News Commentary". The names of the persons, their qualifications, . and the number of limes they broadcast between. 1st January 1970 and 17th February 1971 are given in the attached list. 
Contributors are paid a standard fee. Since May 197(1 il has been $20.00 for 'Notes on the News' and $10.00 for 'News Commentary'. 
It is the Commission's policy to present a wide range of informed opinion and a balance of views. In accordance wilh this policy, ABC officers select speakers with special knowledge or long experience in particular fields, and the ability to present information and opinions in an interesting way. 
No. 
Yes. 
I am sorry, but I cannot give a detailed answer to the honourable member. 1 will treat this as a question on notice and will send him a written reply. 
 In the first place 1 should make the House aware of what was decided as the new policy by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board. At present the requirement is for 18 hours between 7 p.m. and 9.30 p.m. each 28 days with at least 2 hours each week between 7 p.m. and 9 p.m. for Australian productions. The period has been extended to the 4 hours between 6 p.m. and 10 p.m. as from September next, and 45 per cent of the programme material in this period must be Australian. This is to increase to 50 per cent as from July 1972. This was done principally because all the stations, commercial as well as those of the ABC, include within that period after 6 p.m. a half hour news broadcast which, of course, is regarded as Australian production, but which would have an effect on Australian content if the percentage had not been increased to cover other types of programmes such as drama and so on. The Board thought it fair to give fairly long notice of the increase to 50 per cent next year, but this is not necessarily the final limit to which the Board may go. 
Honourable members will appreciate that the Broadcasting and Television Act throws a responsibility on to the various television stations in relation to Australian content, but the Australian Broadcasting Control Board, which is charged with the responsibility of making certain determinations under the Act, came to the conclusion a long time ago that unless it sets down specific criteria in relation to Australian content it might be that some stations would provide it and. some would not. So for over a long period this provision has applied. As to the particular programme to which the honourable member has referred, my understanding is that when it commenced - it is a programme which has been in existence for some considerable time - it did have a rating of approximately 40 per cent but that very recently its rating has dropped to between 14 per cent and 16 per cent. So I think it can be a question of judgment for any person within the community, knowing that situation, as to whether it has been discontinued because of its lower rating or because of the new requirement of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board in relation to Australian content. It is left to every television management to determine how it will meet the Board's requirements. I think it. is fair to say that there is a legal requirement on the Board to set standards.- The Board has to set those standards having regard to what I feel sure is Government policy in terms of Australian production and what is accepted within the community generally, because it is essentia! to give an opportunity to actors, script writers, directors and others in the industry to express themselves in this area of culture. 
I am quite amazed that I should be asked whether a certain film has been shown in about 6 countries, mainly in Europe. How I would be expected to know this other than by picking it up in a newspaper I would not be sure. I have said in this House time and time again that what the ABC does is a matter for the ABC itself. I could not possibly be aware of the films which are shown by the ABC unless in fact they are a series of programmes submitted to me for my approval as to cost in the terms of the Broadcasting and Television Act. I am sure an isolated film such as this would not come into that category. I shall refer the matter to the .  Chairman  of the ABC and, as far as he is able, he will answer the question the honourable member has asked of me. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The total direct cost, excluding overheads, of televising the recent 7 Test Cricket Matches was $205,180, of which $58,000 was for the total cost of the rights to telecast the matches; $141,652 for  the  cost of relaying the matches through interstate lines provided by my Department; and $5,528 for the cost of fees, fares and travelling allowances for commentators and programme staff. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is not possible to provide an estimate of expenditure by the public on the purchase of colour television receivers for a number of reasons, not the least of which is the difficulty of predicting the likely rate of growth of colour receiver sales in Australia. However, I can say that the generally accepted estimate at this stage of the cost of a typical colour television receiver in Australia would be of the order of $700. At present, there is a total of 2,775,049 monochrome television receivers licensed in Australia. 
Capital costs involved in the conversion of existing television stations to permit colour telecasting are estimated to be between $50m and $60m. 
The answer to the honourable gentleman's question is as follows: 
Telegraphic office counter service is available continuously at the Chief Telegraph Offices in all capital cities including Canberra and at Launceston and Darwin. At Newcastle the hours of such service are Monday to Friday 8.30 a.m. to 12 midnight, Saturday 8.30 a.m. to 8.30 p.m. and Sunday  6  p.m. to 10 p.m. Whenever counter service is not available at any office for the lodgement of telegrams they may be telephoned to the nearest office which is open. If it is necessary to make a trunk call a trunk fee of not more than 15 cents is charged irrespective of the distance involved. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Because of a continuing decline over recent years in the demand for telegraph service at Townsville outside normal post office hours, the existing extended hours of service at the telegraph office can no longer be justified. It is proposed to introduce the following new telegraph office hours at that centre within the next few months. 
Monday to Friday - 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Saturday - 9 a.m. to 11 a.m. 
The office will be closed all day on Sundays. 
Yes. Where it is necessary to make a trunk call to lodge a telegram a trunk fee of not more than 15 cents is charged irrespective of the distance involved. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. Where a Western Australialian subscriber asks for a directory covering another area of Western Australia, a copy will be supplied free of charge. 
See answer to (1). 
I appreciate that in the area of art there will always be criticism and commendation. This applies in relation to the designs of Australian stamps just as it applies in other fields. From philatelists and collectors we do receive much commendation for the design of Australian stamps. The Captain Cook bi-centenary stamp series and the Australian nation series of stamps, for example, with many other designs received high commendation both inside and outside Australia. 
The Post Office and the Stamps Advisory Committee employ people who are regarded as artists of repute as designers of stamps in this particular area. This is a special area. It may be that one can design something on a large canvas or a large area but when it has to be incorporated in the size of a postage stamp it is a different type of operation. Many of those for whom commemorative stamps are issued offer designs to the Post Office but quite a number of them, particularly in the area to which the honourable member has referred, being Australian organisations tend to think in terms of their symbolism in the Australian flag. Of course, since there have been recent issues depicting the Australian flag it is not to be expected that this motif can be repeated time and time again. So my view on this matter is that while there is criticism and always will be criticism, the number of stamps issued each year makes the task of selection and design a terribly difficult one, but in general there is a good deal of appreciation expressed as to the quality and design of Australian stamps. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. In accordance with Government policy announced in August last, the Post Office now provides without cost to subscribers, lines within a radial distance of15 miles from the appropriate exchange to the subscriber's premises. It also constructs lines for subscribers beyond the 15 mile radial distance but then subscribers are required to pay a once only charge of $40 per radial quarter-mile beyond that distance. These conditions apply irrespective of the route distance of the lines along public roadways and the route distance on private property. 
Yes. 
Yes, wherever the exchange lines concerned meet departmental construction standards. However there are, throughout Australia, many thousands of such privately erected lines on private property which will first have to be upgraded or reconstructed by the Department and because of the limited resources available for this work it will have to be spread over a period of years. 
The estimated expenditure is as follows: 
A reply either of acceptance or rejection by  Mr Sweenev  has not been received as at this time. 
No reply has been received in writing from  Mr Sweeney  in relation to this invitation by the previous Prime Minister to take up appointment as Director of the Gallery. The whole question of the Gallery is at present under consideration. The interim council completes its term on 30th June. A permanent council will be appointed as from 1st July and under these circumstances it is believed that we should hasten slowly in regard to certain requirements associated with the Gallery. However, I should say in relation to the architectural design that sketch plans have been prepared. These plans have not yet been placed before Cabinet but I believe they will be at a very early date. The documents have been distributed to Cabinet Ministers. 
That is a matter we will have to look at. I could not say at this stage off the cuff. 
It is always surprising that while I am often accused of interfering with the ABC and of doing something wrong thereby, I am obviously asked frequently to do just this. In circumstances such as those mentioned by the honourable member there is always discussion between the various sporting bodies and the television stations, and frequently the ABC and the commercial stations engage in the discussions on a combined basis. Sometimes, because the fee which is requested by the sporting organisations is higher than the stations believe to be justified, no agreement is entered into. I do not know of the particular circumstances in Western Australia on this occasion, but in view of the honourable member's interest, and the interest of residents of Western Australia, I will be pleased to see whether I can ascertain what negotiations took place, the result of those negotiations, and the reasons why the parties were not able to come to a satisfactory agreement. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Esperance television station is one of 38 stations to be established throughout the Commonwealth as the seventh stage of television development. Field surveys have been carried out in all of the areas concerned but final planning based on the results of these surveys has not been completed in respect of " a number of the areas including Esperance. The honourable member may be assured mat the work is proceeding as expeditiously as possible. 
I cannot indicate the likely commencement date at this stage but an announcement in this regard will be made as soon as possible. 
The Government has approved the expenditure necessary for the establishment of these stations. 
Department of Defence: Defence Science Branch  (Question No. 2900)  Mr Barnard  asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
What is the approved establishment of the Defence Science Branch of his department. 
What is the present strength of the branch. 
What is the duty statement for each position in the branch. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The following table relates to applications for telephone services made since 18th August 1970, which, prior to introduction of the new policy announced on that, date, would have involved the applicants in meeting part of the line construction costs. The table shows the position at the end of March 1971. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) 1,290. (b) 433. 
Note- These figures refer to application received since 18th August 1970 (the date on which the new policy concerning the provision of lines for country subscribers was introduced) up to the end of March 1971. 
(a) Nil - See Note in answer to (a) above. (b) 174. (c) 1,551. 
In order to ensure best utilization of overall resources, the work involved in providing subscribers' lines must be integrated with that required for upgrading existing subscribers' lines, of which there are many thousands throughout the Commonwealth. It is necessary that the task be tackled in an orderly fashion, taking into account the rate of implementation of the automatic service programme, the development of different methods of circuit provision to meet special technical requirements in some cases, and the availability of staff for planning, designing, installing and maintaining the network. Delays will therefore be inevitable in some cases and in fact it will take some years before the full programme stemming from the new policy is put into effect. 
For all works included in annual construction programmes, the Post Office orders supplies of equipment in advance so that stocks are delivered according to planned installation arrangements. Currently, equipment availability is not  a  cause of delay in implementing the new policy. 
The demands arising from development of the telecommunications network as a whole are placing considerable strain on certain levels of technical staff resources. Shortages of resources at these levels do have a bearing on the Department's ability to cope with demands directly related to the new country lines policy as they do on many other activities in which the Post Office is engaged. Steps are being taken to strengthen the areas concerned, but it will necessarily take considerable time to achieve. 
The obvious thing to do is to check on what has taken place and what authorities have been given before one seeks to make a final judgment on the matter. This I will do at the earliest possible moment. 
This morning I received a message indicating that what the honourable member has said is true. A message has been promulgated by the Director in South Australia to the divisional heads and heads of sections within the Post Office indicating that leave without pay or leave as a deduction from recreation leave is available to anybody who wants to participate in the moratorium demonstration. The advice that I have had - and I have not been able to confirm it - is that the instruction was given as a result of a statement from the Public Service Board of its approval of this procedure. I should say, perhaps, that it is a requirement of the Board that the services of the Post Office should be continued. This obviously raises the other question which was asked by the honourable member. As Minister in. charge of the Post Office I am concerned that the staffing should be such that it is possible for people to be released during normal times of work for this sort of purpose or any other purpose other than a compassionate one. Leave to take part in this sort of demonstration would, I believe, be an unnecessary cost to the Post Office. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (4) As the honourable member will appreciate, the question of the introduction of colour television in Australia is one of some magnitude in which both technical and economic factors are involved. On the technical side the Australian Broadcasting Control Board has determined standards which have been made available to the industry. Concerning the possible introduction of a colour service, the matter was, late last year, the subject of a most exhaustive examination by the Government having regard to the wide range of information available to it, including a report from the Australian Broadcasting Control Board. As I announced on 14th December 1970, the outcome of the Government's examination of the matter was that it was decided not to declare any date for the introduction of colour television at that stage. I also said that when the Government subsequently agreed to the introduction of colour television, 3 years notice would be given in order to allow industry to prepare adequately. In the circumstances, I cannot say when colour television will be introduced to Australia, but the question will be kept under review. 
From the information available to me, which may not necessarily be complete, the following countries operate television services in colour: 
Austria, Canada, Denmark, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Japan, Mexico, Netherlands, Norway, Philippines, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, United Kingdom, United States of America and USSR. 
Once again, I appreciate the comments which are made by the honourable member in regard to television and in relation to how it conducts its operations. He knows that the Australian Broadcasting Commission is almost completely autonomous in relation to programming. He knows, probably as well as anybody in the House, the capacities of the ABC in relation to programme generation. But I think that it must be said that in all these areas there is what I might term an ebb and flow of popularity with certain programmes. From time to time a programme which has had a very high rating will find that its rating tends to reduce. I do not know the circumstances of the programme to which the honourable member has referred. I will make inquiries of the Australian Broadcasting Commission on this matter and the other comments that have been made. If it cares to make a reply to me, I will pass the information on to the honourable member. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information sought by the honourable member in respect of the period from 1st July 1968 up to the present time is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
There are 2 inter-related reasons. First, there will be 6 directories instead of 1 in Western Australia commencing with the 1971 issue and secondly, a new charging basis is being applied. 
A recent comprehensive review of telephone directory presentation throughout Australia disclosed that the areas covered by some existing directories are much larger than required to meet the actual needs of the great majority of users of the directories. It was clearly indicated that directories of a more local character would generally meet subscribers' requirements adequately. 
Telephone directories covering smaller regions than previously have already been introduced in many areas throughout the Commonwealth and the arrangement is being extended this year to 
Western Australia where, as already mentioned, 6 directories will be issued, 1 for the metropolitan area and 5 covering separate country regions. Each directory will have its own fully classified Pink Pages section. 
Telephone numbers of subscribers not in a local directory may be obtained without charge from the 'Telephone Numbers' Information Service. In addition, a Western Australian subscriber having a need for a Western Australian directory other than the one serving his own region will be supplied with it, on request, without charge. 
The rates for advertisements in Western Australian telephone directories have not been increased since 1966. The new scale of rates which takes into account the circulation levels of the directories as well as the space occupied by the different types of advertisements, is being introduced progressively throughout the Commonwealth. The new charges are considered to be reasonable as they still compare favourably with the cost of other advertising media within Australia, and with the rates applied in comparable overseas telephone directories. . 
While a half-inch single column advertisement in the Perth metropolitan directory will, in future, cost $28.20, such an advertisement will only cost $12.60 in each of the smaller circulation country regional directories. Although a firm wishing to obtain State-wide coverage of this type of advertisement will in future pay $91.20, a country businessman whose purposes may be fully served by advertising only in his local area directory, will, in fact, pay less than before for the same advertisement, that is, $12.60 instead, of $18. Any subscriber requiring advertisements in a number of directories will be able to exercise control over his directory advertising costs by being selective in regard to the directories in which he advertises and varying the size of advertisements in different directories if he wishes. 
The decision to introduce the new charging basis was taken only after a most extensive study of all relevant aspects including the possibility of concessional rates where advertisers buy space in more than one directory. However, it was considered that it would be unfair to a businessman who only required to advertise in his local directory if he had to pay more for an equivalent advertisement than a firm from outside the area which advertised in that directory as well as other directories. In the circumstances, I feel that a further review is unwarranted at this stage. 
Mercury Content in Food  (Question No. 2856) 
The honourable member and other honourable members will know that in recent years the problem of the profitability of the Post Office has been created by difficulties in the postal area. I have indicated in White Papers to the House that this is a very labour intensive industry and that 70 per cent of our cost is incurred in relation to labour. Therefore, there is a problem, particularly in giving concessions in any particular area. For a number of years a substantial concession has been given in relation to newspapers, magazines and educational and religious journals, but last year the Government decided that something should be done to reduce the loss which in that year amounted to $9m. The action which was taken had the effect of reducing this loss to approximately $4.5m. 
I remind the honourable member that there are category A and category B. The area to which the honourable member is referring would mean that a new category would have to be created. Category B represents a 30 per cent concession and there still would be in the area about which the honourable member speaks a further concession particularly related to journals for which no charge is made and which goes to what I understand is a free list. The Post Office, of course, has had to determine certain guidlines in relation to these matters. It is a requirement of the regulation that no concession can be given and that none of these can be brought into a category unless 75 per cent are in fact paid for by the individual. When 1 say that, I have in mind that it is not merely a request by the individual; it can be in relation to an organisation which appropriates a certain proportion of its membership fee adequate to meet the cost of the printing and postage of the journal. 1 can offer no hope of further expansion of the categories to other organisations. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The attached statement contains details of the applications made to the Minister during 1970, for approval of changes in the beneficial ownership of shares in companies holding licences for commercial television stations and changes in the memoranda and articles of association of such licensee companies. 
by leave - My colleague the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  has referred in his Budget Speech to new postal and telephone charges which are to be introduced during the financial year 1971-72. The legislation relating to these will be introduced during this session. For the benefit of honourable members the proposed adjustments are set out in some detail in the schedules now available to them. The increase in the charges for telecommunications and postal services are proposed to be effective in the main from the 1st October 1971. 
As recorded in my White Paper on Post Office Prospects and Capital Programme 1971-72, at the beginning of the financial year 1970-71 the overall Post Office trading profit was estimated at $30m. By the end of the year this had changed to a trading loss of $2m with a loss on postal operations of $25m and a profit on telecommunications operations of $23m. The long-term forecast for the financial year 1971-72 was a modest profit. Without an adjustment in charges the current forecast is a loss of $36m - $35m in postal and $lm in the" telecommunications side. The deterioration in the financial position is due largely to new wage awards. During 1970- 71 some 50 new awards affecting Post Office staff were granted and these will add $77m to Post Office expenditure in 1971-72, compared with a 5-year average increase of $40m. 
In addition, arbitration awards to industry generally have had an effect on prices of materials and services used by the Post Office and increased prices will add about a further 81 Om to expenditure during 1971- 72. In the face of the abnormal increase in labour and other costs which must be met in 1971-72. the continued demand for services and the excessive pressure this places on available resources, and the serious deterioration in financial prospects for the future, the Government has decided to increase certain charges for postal and telecommunication services. The proposals which I will later present to the House are expected to provide $50m in 1971-72 and $90m in a full year. The estimated overall trading position for 1971-72 will then be $36m profit with a $53m profit in telecommunications and a $17m loss in postal. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (3)I am not aware of any such announcement by television stations. However, I did receive representations from several quarters on behalf of an organisation called the TV Make it Australian Committee, which claimed that stockpiling of the Australian drama programmes Division 4' and 'Homicide' was taking place. The Australian Broadcasting Control Board has informed me that the 'Homicide' and 'Division 4' programmes are televised in two series each week by the Melbourne stations originating these programmes. One presentation comprises, designedly, repeated episodes only; the intention to do this was made clear in publicity when the presentation commenced. I presume the question refers to the other presentation. The Australian Broadcasting Control Board informs me that it has been the regular practice since the inception of the programmes in question to include some repeat episodes. The programmes are thus available to a much wider audience than would be the case if they were presented only on a single occasion and accords with overseas practices. The Board's inquiries indicate that for the time being approximately one in every 4 episodes of 'Division 4' is a repeat of an episode first televised at least 12 months beforehand. A similar proportion of episodes of 'Homicide' televised so far this year have been repeats. It is to be noted that it is the common practice, all over the world, for repeats to be included in what might be described as 'first run' series, since it has nowhere been found possible to produce such programmes on a 52-week basis. Production of new episodes of 'Homicide' and 'Division 4' is proceeding at the same rate as in past years. The present practice does not amount to any violation of the aims of the Board's requirements in regard to Australian drama programmes. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
On only a few occasions over a period of several years has the Post Office been made aware of delays in contacting ambulances along the highway. However, there is no doubt that the lack of public telephone facilities along the highway between Marlborough and Sarina could contribute to delay in obtaining ambulance service following road accidents. 
The most suitable locations for two public telephones on the highway would appear to be at the road houses near Stockyard Creek and Lotus Creek, having regard to the need to minimise the possibility of vandalism. The total cost of providing public telephone facilities at those locations would be approximately $100,000. I regret that, at this stage, such an expenditure could not be justified. However, the position is being kept under review and, when general development in the area is sufficient to warrant the extension of departmental telephone facilities to the area, the provision of public telephones will not be overlooked. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Since 1964, most of the requirements of telephone subscribers tor leased local call coin telephones have been met by private suppliers, namely, VTC Pry Ltd which markets the Victa Red telephone and GEC- Elliott Automation Pty Ltd which markets the Easiphone instrument. This arrangement conforms with the practice which has been followed by the Post Office for many years of allowing private suppliers to provide a variety of special facilities of an approved type with subscribers' telephone services. This enables known as 'permitted attachments' to be associated the Post Office to conserve capital works funds and concentrate more resources on meeting the heavy demand for ordinary telephone services. However, the Post Office still provides leased multi-coin telephones in cases where the demand for trunk calls from the services concerned justifies such instruments. It also provides local call coin telephones for certain classes of subscribers, such as Government Departments, public hospitals, public institutions, etc. In other cases, persons requiring leased local call coin telephones are referred by the Department to VTC Pty Ltd and GEC- Elliott Automation Pty Ltd. 
See Answer to (1). 
(a) The annual rental for a Victa Red telephone applied by VTC Pty Ltd ranges from $40 to $120, depending primarily on the period for which the customer contracts to lease the instrument. Lessees have the choice between two types of Victa Red telephone, one adjusted for operation at the rate of 5 cents for a local call and the other for operation at 7 cents. 
The annual rental for a Departmental leased multi-coin telephone instrument is $60. A local call from a leased multicoin telephone costs 5 cents. Trunk calls from such instruments are charged in accordance with the rates prescribed by the Telephone Regulations. 
Note: The rental mentioned in these answers is in addition to the annual charges made by the Department for exchange lines or any other associated facilities. 
(a) The Post Office receives 4 cents for each effective call made from a Victa Red telephone. This represents 57 per cent of the cost of making a call f rom a 7 cent Victa Red telephone and 80 per cent of the cost of a callfroma5 cent Victa Red instrument. 
The subscriber retains either 3 cents (43 per cent) or 1 cent (20 per cent) of the cost of a callfrom a Victa Red telephone depending on whether the instrument operates on 7 cents or 5 cents for a local call. 
VTC Pty Ltd does not receive any portion of the cost of calls originated from Victa Red telephones leased by its customers. 
(a) The Post Officereceives 4 cents (80 per cent) for each effective local call made from a leased multi-coin telephone and all of the standard fees payable for trunk calls originated from such instruments. 
The subscriberretains 1 cent (20 per cent) for each local call made from the leased multi-coin instrument on his service. Under the Telephone Regulation he may charge callers an additional fee of 2 cents for each trunk call made from bis service and retain this money. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The requirements relating to advertising permitted to be transmitted by commercial broadcasting and television stations are as laid down in the Broadcasting Programme Standards and Television Programme Standards issued by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board pursuant to Section 100 of the Broadcasting and Television Act. The amount of advertising time permitted is as follows: Broadcasting On weekdays, and on Sundays before 6.00 a.m., and between 12.00 noon and 12.00 midnight, not more than 18 minutes of spot advertising or 12 minutes of sponsored advertising may be broadcast in each hour. On Sundays between 6.00 a.m. and 12.00 noon, and on Christmas Day and Good Friday, advertising content, whether spot or sponsored, may not exceed 6 minutes in the hour. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
$5,260,368. 
The public telephone service is not costed out as part of the financial accounting system. However, special studies are undertaken as necessary to obtain such information. From these studies for 1969-70 the costs for New South Wales are approximately $6. 6m. 
Broadcasting and Television Advertising (Question No. 3319)  Dr Klugman  asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
What is the percentage of advertising time allowed under the Broadcasting and Television Act? 
Doss this time include the use of advertising signs and slogans during the actual performance of live shows. 
Does the Australian Broadcasting Control Board enforce the limit on advertising; if not, can it be asked to do so? 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
On the basis of the reply to Question No. 2563, there are no first or second division officers of my Department located in Canberra. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There has been no reduction in maintenance expenditure on telephones in public telephone booths following the action of the former Prime Minister in altering the funds allocated to various Departments. 
No public telephones in the St George Electoral Division are out of action for unduly long periods because of lack of maintenance. The inservice time of public telephones in this electorate has shown a substantial improvement over the last 12 months as a result of improved maintenance techniques. 
Ever effort is made to ensure that public telephones are maintained in proper working condition, in spite of funds restrictions. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
On the basis of the reply to Question No. 2563, the answer is that I have an official telephone service. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The cost of a half-inch single column advertisement  in  the 1971 telephone directories is: 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (l)and (2) In the last complete financial year 19 airlines carried overseas airmail to Australia and 15 airlines carried overseas airmail from Australia. The names of the airlines concerned, together with details of the amount of overseas airmail each airline carried, in the 3 financial years 1967-68, 1968-69 and 1969-70 are shown in the attached table. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The rental for a normal telephone service contains a component to cover maintenance of the telephone instrument. Therefore, as the Post Office does not have to provide telephone instruments for Victa Red services and as normal rentals are charged for services with which Victa Red telephones are associated, the agreement with V.T.C. Pty Ltd- the suppliers of the Victa Red units - makes provision for a certain number of maintenance visits to-be made each year to the premises of subscribers leasing Victa Red telephones without charge to the Company. However, the Company is required to pay $4 for each maintenance visit in excess of the number which the Department has agreed to make without charge. Under the agreement the Company is required to supply free of charge parts required for maintenance purposes and to meet the actual costs incurred by the Post Office when units require complete overhaul. The performance of Victa Red telephones has been such that there has been no need to date for maintenance payments to be made by the Company. 
See answer to (2) above. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
To date it has only been possible to carry out a preliminary study of possible adverse effects which the Clutha Development project could have on the operation of the Post Office microwave repeater at Maddern Plains. Detailed studies will be carried out by the Post Office when Clutha has completed its feasibility studies and developed firm proposals for the execution of its project. In the meantime, the Post Office is watching developments on the project through contact with the New South Wales Department of Mines. 
The preliminary Post Office study indicates that the Clutha project could possibly cause interference to the operation of equipment at Maddern Plains and require the repeater to be transferred to another location. 
The capital cost ot the Maddern Plains repeater was in order of $300,000. 
The following communications are at present passing through the repeater: 
A relay of the National Television programme to serve Canberra, Wollongong, Cooma/ Bega, Wagga, and Griffith regions. 
Two both-way interstate television relay channels between Sydney and Melbourne. 
Three broadband communications channels which carry trunk telephone channels, data links, sound programme channels, telegraph services, and private lines between Sydney, Wollongong, Canberra and Melbourne. The broadband channels also carry international traffic from Sydney to the OTC earth station at Ceduna (South Australia) for satellite transmission to Europe. In all, some 1,500 services are simultaneously carried by the repeater. 
The estimated cost of. re-locating the station would be between $0.5m and  51  -Om. 
At this stage it is not possible to give an answer to this question. The question of compensation will require examination when details of the scheme arc known. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
From 1966 to 1969 the contract for advertising rights in the Western Australia telephone directory was held by R. H. Cook Pty Ltd trading as Pink Pages Publicity (W.A.). During 1969 the contract, which expires after the issue of the 1972 directory, was, with the approval of the Post Office, taken over by a newly formed company named Pink Pages Publicity (W.A.) Pty Ltd. 
It is the practice to invite public tenders for the right to sell advertising space in the telephone directory for a period of 7 years. A contract is awarded to the tenderer who offers the Post Office the highest proportion of the value of the gross sales achieved provided, of course, the Post Office is satisfied that the tenderer has a selling capability which should ensure the best return to the Department over the contract period. The successful tenderer retains his share of the advertising sales revenue and pays the balance to the Post Office according to the terms of the contract. 
The rates for advertising space in telephone directories are fixed by the Post Office. They are designed to give advertisers good value for money in terms of the coverage secured by means of directory advertising and compare favourably with the rates charged for other advertising media and those charges for advertising space in comparable telephone directories overseas. The costs incurred by the Post Office in publishing and distributing telephone directories are also taken into account. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Several thousand persons other than A. B.C. employees have been interviewed or taken part in the Australian Broadcasting Commission's Current Affairs programmes 'Four Corners' and This Day Tonight' since 1st January 1970. It would be a major task to provide the names of all the persons concerned who come from many parts of Australia and the A.B.C. regrets that it is not at present able to divert staff to undertake the detailed research that would be necessary. Many of the persons interviewed or taking part in these programmes are not paid a fee. However, where a fee has been paid this would range from $10 to $50 depending on the contribution and expertise of the person concerned. 
'Four Corners' is shown in all States on Saturday evenings and repeated on Sunday afternoons. On Monday to Friday evenings each week a 'This Day Tonight' programme is broadcast simultaneously in New South Wales, Victoria and the Australian Capital Territory. Queensland, South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania have their own 'This Day Tonight' programmes which also are broadcast on Monday to Friday evenings each week. (The programme is called Line Up' in Tasmania). Items shown in one State can be subsequently broadcast in other States. 
No. 
Where conflicting views are involved, every effort is made to find persons for interview so that a balance of opinion is adequately presented. 
Yes. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I might first mention that official telephones are provided in the residences of key personnel whose responsibility for day to day administration requires that they be in a position to give immediate attention to official matters at all hours and whose immediate recall to duty is essential in an emergency. 
On this basis I propose to answer this question on my own behalf only and not for other Ministers. It is also not proposed to include the names of the officers concerned as the services are allocated to the occupants of particular offices. 
The reply to this question is therefore as follows: 
Private Secretary; Press Secretary; Assistant Private Secretaries. 
Not applicable. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Programme Standards of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board already contain special provisions relating to advertisements for alcoholic liquor which must be observed by commercial broadcasting and television stations. In accordance with these standards such advertisements may not be televised between 6.00 a.m. and 8.30 a.m. or between 4.00 p.m. and 7.30 p.m., Monday to Saturday inclusive, nor at any time on Sunday, Christmas Day or Good Friday. No advertisements for alcoholic liquor may be televised or broadcast in proximity to programmes for children or at times when the audience may be expected to include large numbers of young people. Young people, whether children or adolescents, must not be allowed to participate in the presentation of these advertisements. The foregoing provisions do not prevent the sponsorship of sporting events broadcast or televised live on Saturday or sponsorship identification in the form of billboards, or other forms of institutional identification which do not include a sales message for alcoholic liquor. 
The Board maintains close surveillance of the programmes of commercial broadcasting and television stations to ensure that the above requirements are observed. 
 The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have considered the right honourable member's proposal but do not intend to make any recommendation to Parliament for the establishment of such a committee. 
Recently 1 have seen 2 articles concerning a person named Cassidy but different first names were used. However, I think the articles referred to one and the same person. In the first article  the name was Jon Cassidy and in the second article it was Darce Cassidy. This gentleman has been employed as a permanent officer of the Australian Broadcasting Commision in Melbourne since 1964. He is currently employed in the capacity of making book reviews on radio and, in relation to television, has some part from time to time in a Melbourne  programe called Nightcap'. The Australian Broadcasting Commission is making investigations concerning the articles, and what was said about  Mr Cassidy.  He also, I understand, is ascertaining what redress he has legally in relation to the articles and against the publishers of the articles. I cannot give any more information than that to the honourable member. 
From time to time the Australian Broadcasting Control Board, which has statutory responsibility in this area, reviews the standards required for both broadcasting and television, particularly having regard to the Australian content of television programmes. The new requirement in relation to Australian content was announced in November last year with particular regard to drama, children's programmes and the total number of hours which were to be used in the evenings for television purposes. The Australian Broadcasting Control Board consulted many sections of the industry, including the stations and other people associated with it, md reached a judgment which it believed to be reasonable. The Board gave some 10 or 1 1 months notice in regard to its decision. The new proposal shall, therefore, apply from 21st September 1971. The Board has no reason to believe that the new requirements will not be met. Indeed, the annual report of the Federation of Australian Commercial Television Stations last year indicated that the Association saw no reason to believe that all stations would not be able to meet the new requirements. I am assured by the Board that it will do everything in its power to ensure that the new requirements will be carried out. In view of the present provisions I feel that the actors and the producers referred to by the honourable member need have no concern about this matter. 
The Government has adopted as a principle over many years that the Post Office should make a contribution from its profits and from certain charges such as depreciation towards capital investment which is essential year by year. I think that last year's capital expenditure of the Post Office exceeded $400m. Charges have been increased from time to time for the dual purpose of making a contribution in the area I have just mentioned and also because of very substantial increases in wages over the years, particularly in the postal services which are very labour intensive. In fact, 70 per cent of our expenditure in the postal services is in relation to wages. For this reason it has been necessary for us to increase charges from time to time. 
I believed last year that further increases would be unnecessary for some considerable period; but the awards which were given last year by the arbitration commission and the various tribunals which fixed wages during that year meant a carryover into this year from those awards of an additional $77m. As I mentioned in the House last week, this was some $3 5m to $40m in excess of the average increase over the last 5 years. In my view, the Government could have done nothing but increase charges for the second year in succession. I regret that this was necessary but unfortunately the matter is almost completely out of the hands of the Government insofar as the payment of wages is concerned. 
Honourable members will be aware that certain programmes of the Australian Broadcasting Commission are declared to be of national interest and the Government meets the total cost of providing the relay channels for those programmes. That was the situation in relation to the first moon landing, which was regarded as being a special occasion. The televising of subsequent moon landings has been a matter for individual stations or networks to undertake out of their own resources. The Australian Broadcasting Commission has undertaken some responsibility for televising them but some of the commercial stations have not. Commercial stations which desire to televise such a programme must in fact meet the costs of doing so. Those costs would include a charge in relation to the satellite segment of the telecast. 
The honourable member for Franklin raised the question of the Bass Strait microwave system. I point out that arrangements are in fact made by some of the networks for the leasing of television relay channels from the Australian Post Office. The Australian Broadcasting Commission has such an arrangement between 
Sydney and Melbourne and between other centres, but it does not have one between Melbourne and Hobart. It should be appreciated, .particularly in view of the White Paper that was presented to the House last week and the statement I made about the problems associated with financing the Post Office, that the Commission is not to be seen as an organisation which can on all or on many occasions make concessions, particularly concessions to organisations which charge for the time used by advertisers on their stations. It will be appreciated that the rental cost on a half-hourly or hourly basis is high, but it must also be realised that the amortisation of the capital cost together with the running cost of operating the microwave and broad band systems generally throughout Australia justify this high charge which does not yield an unnecessary profit to the Post Office. 
I noticed in one of the morning newspapers a comment which related to  Mr Willesee  standing in for someone at radio station 3AW in Melbourne. This, of course, is a responsibility of the Australian Broadcasting Commission.  Mr Willesee  would be employed by the Commission under contract. I do not know the content of the terms of the contract, but I will make investigations in relation to it if the Leader of the Opposition so desires. 
I will also investigate the other matters which he raises. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read  a  second time. The purpose of this Bill is to give effect to the Government's intention to increase the fees payable for broadcast listeners' and television viewers' licences. There will not be any change in the licence fees currently applicable to pensioners and the licences for blind persons and schools will continue to be free. The Bill proposes that broadcast listeners' licence fees, including hirers' and lodging house licences, be increased from $6.50 to $8 in respect of Zone 1 and from $3.30 to $4.25 in respect of Zone 2. In the case of television viewers' licences, including those of hirers and lodging houses, the fees are to be increased from $14 to $19. The fee for a combined receiving licence will be increased from $20 to $26.50. These proposals operate from the 1st October 1971, and are expected to provide $11. lm in 1971-72 and $15.5m in  a  full year. 
Listeners' and viewers' licences fees were last increased in October 1968. The overall financial position has deteriorated dramatically since that time. Total expenditure has risen from $60m to $82m while gross licence receipts have risen from $46m to $51m. The excess of expenditure over receipts has more than doubled, rising from $14m in 1968 to an estimated almost $31m in 1971-72. The increased licence fees proposed will thus do no more than restore the relativity of expenditure and receipts to that existing in 1968-69. It can be seen that the growth in gross licence receipts is not matching the trend in expenditure. A serious downturn was evident in 1970-71. The deterioration has been due to: Firstly, mounting wage costs flowing from arbitration awards - technician salaries have risen by 29 per cent since June 1968; secondly, development of the Darwin booster station for Radio Australia; and thirdly, extension of television and television translator services to lesser populated country areas. 
Cost increases can be expected to continue with rising wages and further expansion of the National Television Service. The Radio Australia installation at Darwin will be fully operational in 1971-72. The seventh stage of television development, extending service to a further 38 remote areas, has commenced. The estimated capital cost of these stations spread over a number of years is almost $5m, or was that amount at the time when I first made the announcement to the House. In view of the increasing costs and the continued need for substantial amounts of capital as well as the increase in total operating expenditure inherent with the opening of each new station, it is considered necessary to adjust fees for licences in order to reduce the gap between expenditure and receipts to a reasonable level. Provision has been made to introduce a combined lodging house licence. This has been done in the knowledge that television as well as broadcasting receivers are now common in hotels and other premises where lodging or sleeping accommodation is provided. I therefore commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As I announced on 14th December 1970, the outcome of the Government's examination of the matter was that it was decided not to declare any date for the introduction of colour television at that stage. 1 also said that when the Government subsequently agreed to the introduction of colour television, 3 years notice would be given in order to allow industry to prepare adequately. In the circumstances, I cannot say when colour television will be introduced to Australia, but the question will be kept under review. 
From the information available to me, which may not necessarily be complete, the following countries operate television services in colour: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
(a) Yes. 
The Department of Education and Science, the PostmasterGeneral's Department, the Australian Broadcasting Commission and the Australian Broadcasting Control Board. 
Yes. 
The first meeting of the committee was held on 15th July 1970. 
The Departments of Education of New South Wales, Tasmania and Victoria, the Department of Education and Science, the Postmaster General's Department, the Australian Broadcasting Commission and the Australian Broadcasting Control Board. 
The review of the special Committee involves a number of complex matters including investigation of technological developments and the economics of their application to Australian needs. The final report is in the course of preparation. The report by the Committee will be considered at a resumed Conference by the Federal and State Ministers concerned. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I answered a similar question from the honourable member for Riverina on 18th August 1971. 1 direct the honourable member's attention to the reply which appears on pages 284-5 in Hansard of that date. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The provisions in the programme standards of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board regarding references to liquor in broadcasting and television programmes are considered to be adequate; the Board does not have any proposal to extend the provisions. My colleague, the Minister for Health, has indicated on a number of occasions that it is the Government's policy to educate the public in the health dangers of cigarette advertising rather than to completely ban cigarette advertising. In regard to part B of the Honourable Minister's question the advertising services of broadcasting and television stations are available under the normal conditions to interests who may wish to use them for the purpose the Honourable Member mentions. The Government has no other proposals in this field. Anti-cigarette advertisements were in fact recently transmitted over Melbourne commercial television stations. 
To take the last part of the honourable member's question first; 1 am not aware that the Post Office is represented on the Committee to which he refers. As to the other aspects of his question, I can say only that we have developed in Australia a system of charging which is not dissimilar to that in many other countries. Yet, on the other hand, it is dissimilar to the system in a smaller country such as New Zealand. In Australia we are faced with tremendous distances and it is a very expensive operation to extend telephone services because of the large quantities of equipment required. Without doubt, the investigations which we have made show that on average it is cheaper to install telephones even in great numbers in metropolitan areas than it is to take the trunk channels into the country areas. On the question of charging, all I can say is that trunk channels are very expensive and it would be necessary for us to review the whole scale of telephone charges if we were to attempt making reductions in any particular area for the benefit of people who have established themselves in that area. The honourable gentleman will remember that some time ago in the House I was asked whether it was possible for us to have a single charge covering local calls and trunk calls throughout Australia. At that time I pointed out some of the difficulties and I will not repeat them now. Because of the representations received outside the House the Post Office has been studying this matter. 1 have not yet received a report. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 

 Mr Speaker, my colleague the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  has referred in his Budget Speech to new postal and telephone charges which are to be introduced during the financial year 1971-72. The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Post and Telegraph Act to introduce certain changes in postal conditions and to deal with proposed variations in charges requiring amendments to the Postal and Telephone Regulations. There will be another Bill to amend the Post and Telegraph Rates Act to impose new basic postal charges. Simultaneously certain other miscellaneous charges will be adjusted by administrative action. 
The proposed adjustments are set out in some detail in the statement which I made in the House on 17th August and in the schedules that are incorporated in Hansard. I. shall now amplify for the House the reasons for the adjustments and the main variations proposed. The increases in the charges for telecommunications and postal services are proposed to be effective in the main from 1st October 1971. At the beginning of the financial year 1970-71 the overall Post Office trading profit was estimated at $30m; by the end of the year this had changed to a trading loss of approximately $2. 5m with a loss on postal operations of about $25. 5m and a profit on telecommunications operations of about $23m. Without an adjustment in charges the current forecast for 1971-72 is a loss of $36m - $35m on postal and $lm on the telecommunications side. 
The deterioration in the financial position is due principally to new wage awards. During 1970-71 some 50 new awards affecting Post Office staff were granted and the direct costs of these will add $77m to Post Office expenditure in 1971-72, compared with a 5-year average increase of $40m. In addition, arbitration awards to industry generally have had an effect on prices of materials and services' used by the Post Office and increased prices will add about a further $10m to expenditure during 1971-72.  Mr Speaker,  this represents an increase in Post Office expenditure during 1971-72 as a result of awards and determinations of $87m or 8.7 per cent on expenditure during 1970-71, compared with an increase of 4.8 per cent in the consumer price index for 1970-71. 
The problems which confront the Post Office in 1971-72 and have caused the Government to increase certain postal and telecommunication charges could be summarised as: Abnormal increases in labour and other costs; serious deterioration in financial prospects; the level of demand for services and the excessive pressures this places on available resources. 
The proposals I am now presenting to the House are expected to provide $50m in 1971-72 and $90m in a full year. The estimated overall trading position for 1971-72 will then be $36m profit with a $53m profit in telecommunications and a $17m loss in postal operations. Honourable members will be aware that the Post Office made substantial reductions in expenditure during 1970-71 - $15m in total - in an endeavour to assist the overall reduction in Government expenditure. I should say, too, that to contain costs staff recruitment was restricted to a growth of 2.3 per cent during 1970-71 - it had been 3.7 per cent in 1969-70 - and staff growth will continue to be limited during 1971-72 to less than 2 per cent. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Post and Telegraph Rates Act to adjust basic proposal charges. The reasons underlying the decision to increase charges for Post Office services were dealt with when I spoke to the Post and Telegraph Bill. I outlined for honourable members the more significant of the changes, including those dealt with by this Bill. I will not take up the time of the House by amplifying any further on these matters. I merely commend this Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows. 
Yes. The Department has always charged a fee for supplying detailed statements of trunk calls and phonograms and since 1965 the fee has been 40 cents for each statement. These statements are required by the minority of telephone subscribers and the charge is a contribution towards the cost of their preparation. 
If the statement reveals an error in the bill, the detailed information is supplied free of charge. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) Yes.  Major items  of equipment used in the TRESS system are no longer being manufactured and expansion of the system is not possible. However, additional equipment and parts are not a problem at the moment because a downward trend in telegram lodgments has obviated a need for expansion. 
No. Adequate spare parts are held for maintenance but future difficulties are foreseen in replacing items of obsolescent TRESS equipment which are not now obtainable. 
No. However, while the present system is capable of meeting requirements for some time yet, difficulties must inevitably arise in the future because certain parts are no longer being produced. The Post Office is currently studying the question of a replacement system. 
The answer is no. 
I am aware that  Dr Delamothe,  the Minister for Justice in Queensland, has made some comment in relation to the use of the mails for the transfer of pornographic literature.  Dr Delamothe  indicated that the matter had been discussed at a meeting of Commonwealth and State Ministers - I presume, the Attorneys-General and Ministers for Justice - and that he would bring the matter up again at their next meeting. My file does not reveal any occasion on which  Dr Delamothe  has brought an individual matter to my notice nor indeed when he has brought to my notice the general situation. I am therefore a little surprised that he should be making public statements rather than a personal representation to me. Naturally, the matter will be looked at very carefully by me if representations are made by  Dr Delamothe  or by any of the Attorneys-General - Commonwealth or State - a number of whom have brought individual cases to my attention. 
Within the last 3 years in Queensland and New South Wales 14 Post Office box tenancies have been cancelled because the Post Office discovered that those boxes were being used for the dissemination of this type of literature. This area is a very difficult one for the Post Office to operate in. The Government has laid down broadly that action should be initiated by the Post Office if there is blatant evidence on the envelopes or covers of the postal articles that they contain pornographic material. Most of this literature is pasted in plain envelopes. The Post Office has no authority to open envelopes. Therefore its situation is not easy. If it is a matter of registration of books - in some cases this type of material is in book form - it is usual for the Post Office, if it has any doubts, to consult the Minister for Customs and Excise because, as I think most people will realise, the Post Office is not to be seen as another censorship authority within Australia. 
I understand that he is still in the employ of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. I understand that  Mr Cassidy  is contemplating legal action against the publishers of the articles which referred to him. I therefore feel it undesirable to make any further comment to the House. 
 Mr Speaker,  may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill,I would like  to  suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the Post and Telegraph Rates Bill 1971, and the Broadcasting and Television Bill (No. 2) 1971 as they are associated measures. Separate questions may, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I would suggest, therefore, that you should permit the subject matter of the 3 Bills to be discussed in this debate,  Mr Speaker. 
Pursuant to section 78 of the Broadcasting and Television Act 1942- 1971, I present the thirty-ninth annual report of the Australian Broadcasting Commission for the year ended 30th June 1971. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The proposed national television stations at Ceduna and Woomera are among 38 stations to be established in the seventh stage of television development. The whole task is one of some magnitude involving in many cases the provision of special relay links to the stations concerned. A great deal of work has been done in regard to technical surveys of the areas concerned, selection of sites and determination of operating conditions, but the completion of the remaining phases, including the ordering and installation of. equipment, will of necessity take further time. It appears that it would not be possible to complete the Ceduna and Woomera stations before mid- 1 973. However, the whole project is being advanced as quickly as possible, and I hope to be in a position to release, at an early date, a full timetable of possible completion dates for all stations, based on present expectations. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The requirements for Australian content in the programme of commercial television stations determined by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board are as follows: 

 - Mr Speaker, having regard to your desire that answers, to questions should be short, I think this is a matter appropriate to a statement in the House which I expect to make during this week, if I am given permission. 
This is a matter that has received departmental and my own consideration for a lengthy period. There are problems associated with it. There are some people who have the requirement that he suggests but who, because the nearest town happens to be in the direction in which they do not want to make their calls, prefer- to go in another direction. They tend to insist that they be given this facility to the area of their choice or the town of their choice rather than to that which is nearest and which makes the facilities available. 
Other problems associated with it mean that in many areas the distance would be over 100 miles and the provision of the facility is not considered reasonable having regard to other subscribers  in  the system. In addition this facility would mean a considerable increase  in  the capital required to provide additional channels. As the honourable member will appreciate, the resources available to the Post Office year by year are limited. In fact, last year we were unable, out of the resources we had, to meet the demand which the public made upon the Post Office and the same situation could develop this year! 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes, on present indications.  (2) In addition to the planning and construction of the television station, the provision of service to Esperance is dependent on the establishment of broadband telecommunication facilities between Norseman and Esperance over which programmes will be relayed to the station. The dominant delay factor is that the broadband relay equipment can only be obtained from overseas, and its supply is currently subject to a delivery delay of about two years. A period of one year applies to the importation of television station equipment. 
No. 
The station for Esperance is one of 38 stations to be established in widely separated and relatively remote areas of the Commonwealth as the current or seventh stage of television development. As the honourable member will appreciate, the whole task which also involves the provision of special relay links to many of the stations concerned, is one of considerable magnitude and will take some time to complete. Although a great deal of work has already been completed, including technical surveys in each of the 38 areas, a considerable amount of work is involved in processing the survey information before the operating conditions for the various stations and relay facilities can be determined and the necessary equipment ordered. The determination of the technical specifications for the provision of service to Esperance is well advanced, and it is expected that a contract for the broadband relay equipment will be placed early in 1972. 
No other major delays are anticipated. However, it must be realised that the provision of the broadband system between Norseman and Esperance, leaving aside the provision of the actual television station at Esperance, is a formidable task involving the construction of repeater installations at intervals of 20 to 30 miles along the route. On present indications, because of the amount of work involved and the fact that equipment must be obtained from overseas, it would not seem possible that the Esperance station would be ready for commencement of service before early 1974. However, the possibility of advancing the completion date for the Esperance station and for other stations in the seventh stage of development is being examined and a full timetable of possible completion dates for all stations will be announced as soon as practicable. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) The Winkinson's building in Grenfell Street was acquired in 1951 at a cost of approximately $401,000. Portion of a separate property also known as Wilkinson's building and fronting Wyatt Street, was acquired in 1957 at a cost of $55,000. This made a total purchase price of $456,000. (b) $571,000. 
The supply of mechanical mail handling plant and its installation was let as one contract at a cost of $272,000. It is not practicable now to separate the cost of the sorting equipment from the overall total or to indicate the particular cost for installation. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Pursuant to section S3 of the Overseas Telecommunications Act 1946-1971, I present the annual report of the Overseas Telecommunications Commission for the year ended 31st March 1971 together with financial statements and the Auditor-General's report on those statements. 
 by leave - I present to the Parliament a statement on a matter of great importance to the Post Office and the community it serves. Management authority is to be decentralised to a major extent from capital cities to country centres. Concurrently, in the country districts the existing divisional offices are to be regrouped into larger area offices. The objective of the reorganisation is to establish a number of fully equipped business management headquarters under the control of Area Managers. These will be capable of handling to finality the normal Post Office telecommunications services. 
Area Managers will produce their own works programmes and budgets and be responsible for their execution within overall guide lines and policies laid down by State and central headquarters. It is proposed for example, that the Area Manager have authority and delegations in the conduct of work somewhat similar to those now held by the State Directors. At the present time, the State Administrations, each under the control of a State Director, direct and control operations including the works programmes. 
Within the States there are currently 106 engineering divisions (SO metropolitan and 56 country) and 74 telecommunications districts (26 metropolitan and 48 country) which contain the field and operating staffs and provide the contact with our customers. In these areas there are 2 separate main elements working side by side - the engineering unit being responsible for the technical aspects and the telecommunications unit for commercial aspects and customer advisory and service functions. Each of these district units has limited authority and must refer many aspects to State Director level for decision. Also responsibility for a number of activities is shared between the engineering and telecommunications groups, while certain work affecting the area is performed by specialist groups at State head office. Under these arrangements allocation of final responsibility is difficult. 
An opportunity to review our organisational structure and working arrangements arose following a recent service-wide study of the employment of engineers by the Public Service Board. The improvement will be a re-grouping of engineering functions which will promote greater efficiency and the introduction of an area management form of organisation. Area management will provide unified control of engineering, telecommunications and associated administrative functions at area level and a more effective and business-like basis for our telecommunications operations. State Head Office staffs will concentrate on development of State plans, and on the establishment of policies and standards within the overall parameters determined by Post Office headquarters. - 
Economies will result from amalgamation and integration of functions at present performed in different sections, from the simplification of procedures by the elimination of circumlocution and from minimising reference to other functional areas. The amalgamation of the related functions of engineering and telecommunications operations will provide for more efficient use of resources and facilitate the achievement of the heavy engineering annual works programme. From the viewpoint of service to the Department's customers the proposed arrangements are designed to place responsible management of telecommunication facilities as close as possible to the customer in the interests of improved service and efficiency. 
District technician and lines staffs will be retained at existing locations. In addition, improved customer advisory service will be provided where such facilities are currently available and as the need arises these will be established at other centres. The proposal which 1 have described will have some effect on Post Office staff. I want to put this aspect into proper perspective. There will be transfers of certain administration functions from 25 of the existing 56 country district headquarters to the new country area headquarters. In each of these 25 districts there are between 300 and 400 staff employed comprising professional engineers, clerical and administrative officers, district telecommunications sales and service staff, technicians, lines and telephone operating staff. In each case between 25 and 35 positions only will eventually be transferred to area headquarters. 
The new organisation structure for engineers will provide opportunities for promotion which should encourage the willing movement of a large number of these officers. Avenues for promotion are similarly expected to be available for other designations as the new organisation is further developed. To the greatest extent practicable staff at existing centres will be redeployed on to other duties at the same locations to reduce the need for transfers. To minimise inconvenience to the remaining staff, implementation action will be phased over a period of several years, during which period it can be expected that promotion and normal staff wastage will make minimal the number of employees who may eventually need to be compulsorily transferred. During this transitional period some engineering divisions and telecommunications districts will function as outposted units of the area management. 
The establishment of area management will provide career opportunities for locally recruited staff. A similar study of the activities associated with Post Offices and mail services in the country is in hand and it is planned that these services also will be reorganised into a postal area management system. The headquarters of these postal areas will we expect be located at the same centres as the telecommunication Area Managers, and will share some of the common services. The changes are quite radical. They are designed to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of Post Office telecommunication management. They are in harmony with modern business practice of clearly identifying management authority and responsibility. 
Finally 1 would like to repeat that there will be no large scale relocation of staff. A small number of positions representing less than four per cent of total staff in country districts will be affected by the change. For many of the individual staff members affected, the change will be accompanied by immediate promotion. For all those affected the Post Office will take all possible steps to minimise personal problems. Accompanying this statement and available to honourable members, are maps indicating area boundaries and in most cases the location of area headquarters. I present the following paper: 
Re-organisation of the Australian Post Office Telecommunications Activities - Ministerial statement, 16th September 1971. 
Motion (by  Mr Swartz)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I 
101. 
Nautical Training (Question No. 4022)  Mr Whitlam  asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
What stage has been reached in the plans to establish nautical training institutions and programmes in Australia (Hansard, 2nd September 1970, page 904). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The names of the persons who contributed to 'Notes on the News', their qualifications and the number of times they broadcast between 1st January 1969, and 9th April 1971,  are given in the attached list. Contributors to the programme are paid a standard fee which, since May 1970. has been $20 per broadcast. 
The engagement of speakers for 'Notes on the News' is decided on a day-to-day basis by the ABC's Federal Supervisor. Current Affairs (Radio), in accordance with the Current Affairs policy laid down by the Commission. 
No. 
Some difficulties have arisen recently in relation to the movement of mail in the Northern Territory, particularly out of Darwin. An arrangement was entered into by the Department of Civil Aviation, Connair Pty Ltd and the Post Office for parcels to be moved by air in the Northern Territory at surface rates. Under the arrangement the Government would pay a substantial subsidy to Connair. This means that the surface rate is lower than the air freight rate and many peope who used to send by air freight are now sending by mail. Articles similar to those mentioned by the honourable member are included in that category. There was a build up of  150  to  200  articles for these areas but it has been possible in the last few days to make arrangements for special aircraft to move this mail. At the moment there is no build up at the Darwin post office. I hope we will be able to undertake operations which will avoid build ups in the future. 
I presume the honourable member is making reference to articles which appeared in the newspapers that a pirate radio station either within or near one of the universities in Melbourne hoped to go on air, first, yesterday and then again today. This matter is covered by the Wireless Telegraphy Act and the Post Office has the authority to seize the equipment. I am sure the honourable member will appreciate that if the radio station is within the university some problems may arise. Those who are responsible for the operation of the station will be liable to a penalty of up to $1,000 or 5 years imprisonment. I hope that, if we can apprehend them, they will not get off with a bond. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The Australian Broadcasting Control Board has given some consideration to the technical and economic factors relating to the possibility of authorising an additional commercial broadcasting station to serve Canberra in connection with the Board's continuing responsibilities for the development of the broadcasting services. However, a frequency has not yet been allocated and no specific proposal had yet been submitted for my consideration. 
The Board will furnish a report to me on the matter when its investigations arc completed and if, after considering the Board's report, I decide to invite applications for a licence, adequate publicity will be given to the matter so that any interested companies may apply. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The centres within the Kalgoorlie electorate at which automatic exchanges are programmed for installation during 1971-72 are: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The payments made to Trans-Australia Airlines and Ansett Airlines of Australia for the carriage of mail, in respect of the years mentioned, were: 
I know that many honourable members, including the honourable member for Chisholm, are interested in this matter. I have recently been in touch with the Board. This afternoon I hope to table the Board's report. There are some paragraphs in the Board's annual report which refer to what appears to be some delay in relation to this matter. However, the Board has many responsibilities and, in recent times, has had additional responsibilities. It is preparing a report on this subject but is not able to make it available at the moment. 
Pursuant to section 28 of the Broadcasting and Television Act 1902- 1971, I present the twenty-third annual report of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board for the year ended 30th June 1971 together with financial accounts and the report of the Auditor-General on those accounts. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Belmont Official Post Office was opened on 8th October 1936. The Norlane Official Post Office was opened on 3rd August 1953. 
Belmont Post Office opened with a staff of 9 people and now has 18 people employed. 
Norlane Post Office opened with a staff of 4 people and now has 13 people employed. 
Belmont Post Office serves 6,520 homes and Norlane 4,978 homes. 
No. However, the Department recognises that there are some deficiencies in the existing accommodation, particularly in the extent of operational areas available and staff amenities provided. Full public facilities are available at the office and a good grade of service provided to the public. 
At this stage, no definite indication can be given as to when a new post office building can be provided at Norlane. However, the needs at this centre, as compared to other centres, will be kept under notice and reviewed from time to time when building programmes are formulated. 
No. The relative priorities for dealing with post office building projects are determined basically by the extent of the accommodation need at the various centres to provide an efficient postal service. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Payments to persons in charge of nonofficial post offices are based on the volume of post office business transacted and are calculated in accordance with the scale of payments set out in the relative Determination of the Public Service Arbitrator. The determination also prescribes additional allowances to be paid to non-official postmasters for attendances to provide postal, telephone and telegraph services outside of the normal office hours. 
Pay increases were granted to non-official postmasters on nine occasions during the past five years, the dates of effect being; 1st March 1966. 14th July 1966, 26th January 1967, 26th June 1969, 24th July 1969, 11th December 1969, 25th December 1969, 24th December 1970 and 7th January 1971. The percentage increases for a full-time service non-official postmaster on the minimum point in the scale were 4.2 per cent, 4.5 per cent, 2.5 per cent, 5.9 per cent, 10.5 per cent. 5.2 per cent, 3 per cent, 9.5 per cent and 6 per cent respectively. The increase on the minimum was generally representative of the percentage increases overall but in some instances, depending on the basis of adjustment, variations occurred throughout the scale of payments. 
No. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Eyre, 104; Flinders, 66. 
Most of these applicants are located remote from existing exchanges and the provision of telephone services for them involves a substantial amount of new line construction. This work will be undertaken progressively but, as there is a limit to the resources which can be devoted to providing telephone services, present indications are that it could be several years before all of the outstanding requests can be satisfied. However, the works programme will be critically reviewed each year to see what can be done to expedite the installation of services for the applicants concerned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a)- 
A number of honourable members have taken up with me the question of weather reports over the Australian Broadcasting Commission's channels. The Commission has pointed out that only a limited amount of up to the hour information becomes available to it from the Weather Bureau - it depends on that organisation for the information - and it is not possible in general terms to cover larger areas than are being covered at the present time'. As to the particular instance which the honourable member has mentioned, I will have to make inquiries. But what I have said generally covers the situation. Many people throughout the com munity are interested in their own local area and require weather reports. It is not possible for the ABC to provide them. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
TRESS Operation was first introduced in Australia in the latter half of 1959. 
(a) The system is a composite one which was fully designed by the Australian Post Office engineering staff to meet Australian Post Office requirements and, as such, does not involve the exclusive use of one particular manufacturer's equipment. 
Manufacturers of the telegraph machine equipment employed in the system are: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The level of charges which would be needed in order to finance all expenditureon the telephone service from internal Post Office resources would vary from year to year. The number of services and movements in the wage rates of staff would influence financial needs. 
At the levels of earnings and costs estimated for 1971-72 telephone call charges would have to be increased by about 60 per cent over the charges proposed in the Budget to meet the cost of extending and maintaining the telephone service in that year. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The position as at 30th June 1971. was as follows: 
Number of new services provided - 668. 
The  answer  to the  honourable member's question  is as  follows: (1), (2) and (3). 
The television advertising of cigarettes and tobacco in Australia has been a controversial matter for a very long time. The selling and the use of cigarettes and tobacco have never been prohibited by any government. Since commercial television organisations depend upon advertising revenue to conduct their operations, it is believed by the Government that there should be no prohibition on advertising of cigarettes and tobacco. The Government has been advised through the Department of Health, which in turn has received advice from the National Health and Medical Research Council, and the views . which have been expressed have been taken into consideration by the Government. Discussions have taken place between the Department of Health, the Australian Broadcasting 
Control Board and the cigarette and tobacco companies. The latter have developed a voluntary code which was brought into operation on 1st October. I should like to let the honourable member have a copy of the new code. 
Included in it is a requirement that there should not be advertising of cigarettes and tobacco in close proximity to children's programmes but in any case that there should not be a telecasting of this advertising between 4 p.m. and 7.30 p.m. The honourable gentleman asked whether the Board indicated that 37 per cent of 13-year olds are watching television at 9.30 p.m. The answer, of course, is yes. But I do not believe that this necessarily has a relationship because, as has been explained by the Board and by me, the Broadcasting Control Board believes that adults substantially undertake viewing from 7.30 p.m. onwards and that the responsibility for children watching television after that hour lies with parents. It is not the responsibility of the Broadcasting Control Board or the Government. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Telephone service was extended to Kambalda in 1967 under the policy in force at the time relating to the provision of telecommunication facilities for single industrial undertakings at Company towns in areas not connected to the public trunk line system. Briefly, this policy required that the industrial undertaking should accept responsibility for the provision and maintenance of the telecommunication services in its development area, including the necessary spur links to the public trunk line system. Accordingly, Western Mining Corporation Ltd has been responsible for the provision of subscribers' telephone services in the area. There are nearly 280 services connected to the Company's switchboard in the township, including services to shops, the supermarket, school, hotel and other business premises, as well as to private residences. The Company advises that, although no applicant has been declined a service, seven applications are outstanding at present pending the installation of additional cable. A public telephone is associated with the Kambalda Post Office and another public telephone is to be provided at the Kambalda West Post Office when it is established. There are no spare circuits on the spur line system to Kalgoorlie to enable further public telephones to be provided at present. However, six telephone services with multi-coin attachments have been provided at various locations by Western Mining Corporation Ltd. 
See (I) above. 
In 1969, the policy governing the provision of telecommunication facilities in remote Com pany towns established by industrial undertakings was revised and is now as follows: 
Where justified, a public exchange and associated subscribers' services are provided, operated and maintained by the Post Office in the Company town. 
The Company concerned is required to make an unconditional contribution of the capital cost incurred by the Post Office in providing the initial trunk route (normally adequate for five years' growth) between the Company town and the public telephone network. 
In May this year, preliminary discussions were held with Western Mining Corporation Ltd on the application of this revised policy at Kambalda. On 28th September, further discussions were held with the Company as a result of which the Post Office is preparing a proposal for the establishment of public exchange facilities at Kambalda for consideration by the Company. 
Sec (3) above. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The licensee of A TV has endeavoured to the best of its ability to comply with the Programme Standards of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board, which is the only obligation imposed on it. 
The answer to the honourable member's question  is  as follows: 
and  (2h- 
The answer to the honourable gentleman's question is: Yes, together with all other persons who might be eligible for consideration. 
Pursuant to section 96l of the Post and Telegraph Act 1901- 1970, I present the annual report of the Australian Post Office for the year ended 30th June 1971 together with financial statements and the report of the AuditorGeneral on those statements. 
by leave -  Mr Acting Speaker,  on 16th September 1971 I informed the House of the decision to reorganise the telecommunications services of my Department into 32 management areas, 6 metropolitan and 26 country. I have since received many inquiries and representations from honourable members,town councils and others concerning the economic and social effects of the withdrawal of staff and their families from country towns, some of which are already quite seriously affected by circumstances within the primary industries. I have therefore explored ways in which area management headquarters staff might be decentralised without serious loss of efficiency in that organisation. I would like to explain the change in arrangements which has been decided on. At the same time I would like to remind the House of the principles of area management and to clarify one or two points which may have been misunderstood. 
_ 
At present the telecommunications service is represented in provincial and rural areas by 2 relatively small and quite separate units - the district telephone office responsible for commercial and customer advisory functions and an engineering unit responsible for the technical aspects cf the service. As I explained previously each of these district units has limited authority. There is shared responsibility for some activities and official co-ordination and final authority rests at State headquarters in the capital city. Under area management co-ordination and authority in respect of most of the functions involved in providing and maintaining the telecommunications service will be transferred from the capital city to area headquarters. Thus those activities, instead of being managed by 6 very large State units at capital cities, will be largely managed in a town within each of the 32 areas. I will not repeat the advantages of this change except to say that it is designed to improve the quality, the efficiency and the economy of the service and it has been developed in the public and national interests. 
To obtain the full advantages from decentralisation of authority, responsibility and accountability, it is necessary to place a management unit in an area geographically larger than existing districts. In general, a new area embraces two or three districts. A small proportion of existing district staffs would need to be grouped eventually at area headquarters. It is this factor which has given rise to most representations. It is on this point also that there could have been some misinderstandins Staff responsible for commercial and customer advisory functions are not affected by the establishment of area headquarters. That is. almost all members of the district telephone office - telephonists, lines staff and installation and maintenance staff - will remain in their present locations. Engineers and some supporting staffs, and a small commercial group would be concentrated at headquarters. On this basis the original plan would have involved the eventual movement of about 25 to 35 staff positions from a district centre not selected as area headquarters over a period of several years. This was clearly stated by me on the 1 6th September. 
As I mentioned at the outset in this statement, the matter has been further investigated to determine whether or not it would be both feasible and practical to decentralise within each country area some of the positions carrying out area head- quarters functions. 1 have concluded that decentralisation of a high proportion of these area headquarter functions would be possible without too significant an effect on the economic benefits and increased business efficiency which would have resulted from the original scheme. 
The results of this change will be fourfold. Firstly, approximately two-thirds of district staff that was proposed to be transferred or moved by promotion or otherwise will remain where they are at present located. They will operate in circumstances or in a situation similar to a business branch. Secondly, the effect on the town not chosen as the management centre will be minimal, both commercially and socially. Thirdly, it is expected that all staff changes that do occur will be achieved by normal promotions, voluntary transfers, normal staff wastage and by local recruitment. Fourthly, personal economic problems of most members of the staff who are not promoted will be overcome or certainly alleviated in substantial degree. in addition 1 should again explain that the changes even on the new basis will be gradual and spread over several years. The decentralisation of authority, responsibility and accountability for telecommunication services to 32 business units of adequate but manageable size is in harmony with the modern business practice for the control of large organisations. I am satisfied that the introduction of area management in the Post Office will have considerable advantages in terms of service, efficiency and economy. The modification to !he original arrangements will enable the benefits and advantages of area management to be substantially achieved whilst ensuring that community needs are met. I present the following paper: 
Australian Post Office, Telecommunications Activities, Reorganisation - Ministerial Statement, 26 October 1971. 
Motion (by  Mr Howson)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
When I made my first statement to the House on 16th September indicating the area management concept and principle I did indicate that consideration was being given to something similar in terms of the postal services, separated from the telecommunications area. I have since had a look at this aspect and I have come to the personal conclusion that there would not be the same justification for area management in the postal services area as there is in the telecommunications area. I have therefore indicated to my Department that while it may prepare a report, it must be submitted to me and I will make a decision as to whether it should be submitted to Cabinet before any action is taken in the postal services area. 
-The answer to (he honourable member's question is as follows: 
Continuing records under States and Territories are not maintained of inquiries by subscribers concerning their telephone accounts. Sample studies are. made periodically. 
Individual subscriber account records are noted as to inquiries which result in adjustment of accounts but consolidated totals of such adjustments are not kept. 
The Department issues over 5.5 million telephone accounts each year and the high cost of maintaining continuing records under Statesof all inquiries, and the results of those inquiries, is not justified. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question, is as follows: 
$38,770,864. 
For some considerable time we did have difficulty in relation to the transmission of 'Radio Australia' from Darwin. The plant which had been ordered gave some trouble, but concentration by Post Office engineers, together with the contractor, enabled us to get this project completed and in full service comparatively recently. 
Apparently the Leader of the Opposition has heard a rumour of which I have no confirmation. I am not aware of any equipment disappearing. But I would indicate that at this point of time the basic installation, including the aerial plant, has been completed. As from 1st July last the transmitter was operating at full power of 250 kilowatts. In September there was in fact an increase in transmission time to 20) hours a day to meet the Australian Broadcasting Commission's programming requirement. Reports which have been received from overseas indicate that we are giving a very efficient, acceptable and satisfactory service to the areas of Asia which this equipment is intended to serve. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. However, the costsinvolved in establishing such a service are high and the profitability is doubtful. The British Post Office lost approximately $A13m in 1969-70 on its Giro system. About half of the main Giro systems in the world operate at a loss. 
The Australian Post Office will continue to observe progress overseas. 
No. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In its original application for a commercial television station licence, Universal Telecasters Qld Ltd (licensed to station TVQ Brisbane) staled that it proposed that the proportion of Australian content of programmes would reach approximately 40 per cent in the third year of operation, based on a transmission schedule of 61 hours weekly. 
In July, 1968, following the completion of 3 years operation, 51.1 per cent of the weekly 87 hours transmission of TVQ was occupied by Australian programmes. 
Station TVQ is at present credited with televising Australian programmes for 54 per cent of transmission time of about 97 hours weekly. 
Australian programmes at present televised by station TVQ consist of Drama, Light Entertainment, Sport, News, Children's, Family Activities, Current Affairs, Religious Matter and Education. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Close liaison is constantly maintained with metropolitan, provincial and country planning authorities in matters of mutual concern affecting Departmental plant and property and discussions with State planning bodies ensure the coordination of long-term planning. Liaison is also maintained and close co-operation given to highway, railway and public utility authorities and, wherever possible, the Department complies fully with the requirements of these authorities and development groups. 
Some examples of the liaison channels used are the Local Government Engineers Association, the National Association of Australian State Road Authorities, and the Central and State Joint Committees which comprise representatives of the Electricity Supply Association of Australia and of the PMG Department. 
and (3) My Department co-operates with electricity authorities, private subdivides, municipal councils, etc, in providing underground reticulation. Where this is not the most economic construction, the extra cost incurred must be reimbursed to the Department by the requesting party. 
Visits to China by Qantas Employees (Question No. 4509) 
Some views have been expressed recently in relation to censorship of films, particularly in the area which concerns me and which is my responsibility, namely, the area of television. There are 2 bases of censorship of films existing at the present time in Australia. One is in relation to imported films which becomes the responsibility of the Commonwealth Film Censor and is covered by my colleague, the Minister for Customs and Excise. The other is in relation to television particularly, which relates to the responsibility of the Broadcasting Control Board under the Broadcasting and Television Act to determine standards of programmes and advertising. It has always been accepted that in determining standards of programmes, there must be some control or supervision to enable the Control Board to determine whether the standards have been adhered to, and in that situation one might say that censorship is applied. There have been discussions between the Department of Customs and Excise and my own Department of areas within my responsibility. Apparently the Film Censor takes into consideration the standards of the Broadcasting Control Board in determining admission or other wise, or acceptability or otherwise, of imported films. That does not apply to films produced in Australia. However, in regard to the recent statements that have been made, many people in various age groups have raised with me their concern at the possibility of removing censorship or the exercise of a control - whether you call it censorship or not - from the control of the Board and I have arranged to see representatives of the commercial television interests and receive a written submission from them. If I believe it is necessary to take the matter to the Government, this most certainly I will do. 
I do believe that it is impossible for the Control Board to determine standards adequately unless those standards are policed. I mention a recent incident in which 3 entertainers were brought to Australia by one of the commercial television stations and appeared live on television. That station subsequently made a public apology for some of the statements made during the programme and it also apologised to the Control Board. Without some element of control by the Board, it may be that such apologies would not be made. Under those circumstances, the Board merely indicated that in future that group was to put its programme on tape and the manager of the station himself was to determine whether it went on the air. It was therefore not a complete censorship so far as the Board was concerned but it was an endeavour by the Board to ensure that the standards which, by statutory requirement, the Board is called upon to set down are in fact kept. 
I am not aware of the Minister for Health passing on to me a report of the National Health and Medical Research Council in relation to this matter. My memory is - I may be very much mistaken - that when the portfolio of Health was held by a Minister in this House that Minister indicated that the Council had said that there was a danger in smoking but it believed it was desirable to have an educational policy rather than the complete abolition of cigarette advertising on television. I understand that the Broadcasting Control Board and the tobacco manufacturers have got together and that the tobacco manufacturers themselves have adopted a voluntary code for the advertising of cigarettes on television which is being implemented at the present time. I will inquire of the Minister for Health whether my recollections are correct or whether I am under a misapprehension in relation to this matter. 
I am afraid that it will be impossible to deal with all the items that have been raised during the debate this afternoon, but I would like to take the opportunity of referring to what I might term the 'main matters' and leave some of the lesser items for subsequent comment, perhaps by letter after the House has risen. I may not take the items that have been raised in any order of importance but rather in the order of the speakers who have participated in the debate. The honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison)  was the first to make a contribution on behalf of the Opposition. He raised the old problem which has confronted the Post Office for many years and which has been discussed in debates of this nature over a long period. I refer to loan repayments, interest charges and so on within the postal organisation. 1 do not think it is my duty this afternoon to try and go through the whole operation. I think it is sufficient for me merely to refer to the figures which were given by the Assistant Minister assisting the Postmaster-General  (Mr Robinson).  This year the Post Office will spend approximately $424m on capital works. It will borrow $255m of that from the Treasury, which leaves approximately $170m to be financed from its own sources. This will be mainly in the area of depreciation provisions on plant and one or two other items such as furlough. 
The question of interest charges enters into these considerations. The honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Jeff Bate)  raised this matter this afternoon. In doing so he went back to the report of an earlier committee. The extraordinary thing about the comments of the honourable member was that he was not interested in the majority view of the committee as expressed in that report but in the minority view. I have been a member of this place for a long while. In that time 1 have generally found honourable members to expect a majority report to be implemented and not a minority report. It might be convenient for some honourable members to have 50c each way, but that is not possible in this instance. If the interest, which this year will be S140m-odd, is not paid to the Treasury - it is of course complained that the money comes from the taxpayer and we are therefore charging the taxpayer twice - the Treasury will be $140m-odd worse off and will have to go to the taxpayer to recover that money. It is a matter for personal judgment whether one looks at it from the point of view of a subsidy through the Post Office or a direct charge in taxation by the Treasurer. I merely make reference to that matter. 
I was interested in the comments of the honourable member for St George about the inflationary factor in increased charges and his reference to the setting up of a statutory corporation. Let us have a look first at the inflationary factor. For some months now I have been indicating publicly that as a result of awards made last financial year - that is. prior to the end of June - the Post Office will this year have an increased wages bill of $77m. The honourable member for St George suggested that increased charges are the inflationary factor. I think he should have gone into the matter a little deeper. If he had done so he would have found that wages, which are responsible for the increased charges, are really the inflationary factor. I think he actually made the admission which we on this side of the chamber have been making for a very long period of time. 
I cannot give the honourable member for Wilmot the actual figure for the interest which is paid, but 1 think it could be about $18m more this year than last year. There is no logic in comparing that as an inflationary factor with the $77m increased wages bill. 
I turn now to the question of the replacement of the Post Office with a statutory corporation. We have heard this argument expressed ad nauseum over the years. Members of the Opposition have praised the British for making their Post Office a statutory corporation. It became a statutory corporation following a report to a Labour government in the United Kingdom on the nationalised industries in that country. Targets were set in relation to the Post Office in the United Kingdom. The target which was set for the postal services - I am not referring to telecommunications - was a net profit equal to 2 per cent of the turnover of the postal services. I have just received information on what happened last year. It shows that there was a loss of  Stg62m in the postal services conducted by the statutory corporation in the United Kingdom. The Opposition has been suggesting that a statutory corporation would be the solution to all the ills of operating a postal service. I suggest to honourable members opposite that they should have a very close look at what has happened in the United Kingdom. Indeed, to have achieved the 2 per cent profit which was the objective the statutory corporation would have needed an additional revenue of Stg81.5m in the last financial year. 
The honourable member for St George spoke of the use of the coaxial cable between Sydney and Melbourne by commercial stations. As I recollect, he did not mention that there was an off-leasing to the Australian Broadcasting Commission in relation to one of these transactions. The honourable member said that whilst the licence fee charged to householders had gone up the Government had not done much about the licence fee charged to television station owners. It should be appreciated by every honourable member that there is in fact a sliding scale of fees in relation to the holding of television station licences and that this goes up to a maximum of 4 per cent of the total revenue of the station. Revenue from that source last year was $1.7 12m, which was an increase over the previous year. I do not believe that there is to be any going cap in hand, as he used the term, to commercial stations in relation to use of the coaxial cable. What was the situation? We put down a coaxial cable from Melbourne to Sydney through Canberra. There are 6 tubes in that cable. At the time it was put down and for some time afterwards 2 tubes were surplus to Post Office operations. They were spares. We have been able to gain revenue by leasing them to commercial television stations. What would the Australian Labor Party have done in the same circumstances? Would it have allowed them to lie idle or would it have felt that substantial sums of money could be added to the revenue of the Post Office by their use? I believe we made what the community would say was the correct judgment when we leased them to a commercial station. 
Because the ABC did not make a request for them. The application came from a commercial station, which then approached the ABC. Under the provisions of the agreement the ABC sub-leased one third of the time on that coaxial cable and later another commercial station also entered into a leasing agreement. So the ABC did not at any point of time approach the Post Office for a separate, independent, full time lease of the coaxial cable or for the microwave facilities. 
I cannot spend all of my time commenting on the remarks of the honourable member for St George. However, I do wish to say that it is possible - I go to his comments in relation to private telephones - for private individuals to lease a meter from the Post Office at $15 a year and a $10 installation charge. So if the people who believe they are being substantially overcharged by the Post Office want to make a check this can be done through the resources of the Post Office. 
The honourble member for Macarthur  (Mr Bate)  made particular reference, as did one or two other members, to the closure of small post offices - mainly nonofficial - or their reduction in status from official to non-official. I know this has been done, but in general terms - and I do not say absolutely - this has been associated with the installation of automatic telephone facilities where an exchange happens to have gone into the area which has reduced the responsibilities of the post office keeper or the telephone office keeper and we have been able to make a variation in terms of the delivery of mail, in most cases very satisfactorily from the point of view of the individual. But I assure the House that these things are not done lightly. They are done with great care and consideration for the people who are concerned and in very few cases, in my view, would there be any substantial detriment to individuals within the community. 1 move on to the points made by the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Sherry).  He made certain references to television. He referred, first of all, to the criteria apply,ng to the appointment of commissioners of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. 1 do not think it is appropriate for me at this moment to endeavour to go through all the criteria which one might use in determining the suitability of a person as a commissioner. But 1 do point out that it is a part time appointment and, because it is a part time appointment, there is a much smaller field to choose from than there would be if these were full time positions. The honourable member also made reference to directions that were given within the ABC. I point out to the House that the Commission - that is, these 9 commissioners - in fact has almost complete autonomy in terms of programming. 
I believe that many employees of the ABC believe that they too have autonomy in relation to programming and I suggest that the autonomy given to the 9 commissioners is not passed down in terms of licence, or whatever you may call it, to the employees. The employees of the ABC are in exactly the same situation as the employees of any other organisation. They are there to be given instructions and. indeed, it is the responsibility of the commissioners to determine what shall bc the guidelines or the instructions under which employees will work. I understand that in recent months the Commission has given considerable time to the discussion of new guidelines or new terms of instruction. So that if in fact - as the honourable member for Franklin said -  Mr Hutchinson,  the controller of programmes, gave a direction to  Mr Carleton  here in Canberra then he was no doubt acting within the responsibility which had been passed down to him from the Commission through other senior officers - the general manager, etc. - into what 1 might term the other areas of ABC activity. I would be very surprised if there were real criticism of this situation because it was included in the Broadcasting Act in the days when the Labor Party was in power. Therefore 1 do not believe there is justification for criticism by the Opposition of a principle which it accepted and which we too have accepted in this area. 
They do change, and that is one reason why we have television today although we did not have it in the days when the Labor Party was in power. Nevertheless responsibility for running the ABC services is a matter for the Commission. Surely the honourable member would not suggest that some person at some other level, even down to a little above the office boy, has autonomy or licence in relation to his personal activity within the organisation of the ABC. Of course he has not. The honourable member also asked about the frequency modulation inquiry. I can only tell him that the Australian Broadcasting Control Board is still sifting the evidence. At present it cannot give me a date when the report will be available but 1 know that it is not wasting time having regard to the other responsibilities which are placed upon it. 
The honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  raised the question of a commercial television station at Roma. This matter is still under investigation. The installation of a commercal television station at Roma would require the use of 3 frequencies in relation to the translator hops from Toowoomba to Roma. We are not yet in a position to offer a final judgment in regard to the matter. Several honourable members representing country areas made reference to decentralisation, decentralisation of authority, area management - whatever term may be used. Having regard to the sense in which the expressions were used I can only repeat what I have already told honourable members by letter or in statements made in the House, namely, that no decision has yet been made as to where area headquarters will be situated. I appreciate that an advertisement calling for applications for the positions of area manager was in fact placed in the Commonwealth 'Gazette' but I have requested that these be not necessarily considered as definite. 
When area managers are appointed within the next few months they will make a personal inspection of the area, have a look at the facilities available and at the prospective comfort or otherwise of those who may move into an area, and then make recommendations as to where the headquarters should actually be placed. I believe that there need be no fear on the part of the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  in relation to this. We made an adjustment 20 years ago, and in terms of this new operation we are moving back to what applied 20 years ago. The honourable member must surely appreciate that the technical aspects of communications have advanced quite considerably. Let it not be forgotten that the number of people who will move - and most move voluntarily - will be no more than perhaps eight or ten out of 300 or 400 people who are working in a particular district at the present time. My time has almost expired and it is impossible to deal with all of the other matters which are before me. I give an undertaking that I will look at the other matters and that answers will be given, as usual, in letter form to comments which have been made by honourable members. 
I am pleased to say that the answer is, yes. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Connection to the national STD grid is dependent upon the installation of a new telephone exchange at Port Augusta. It is tentatively planned that connection to the national STD grid will take place in the first half of . the 1973 calendar year. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Private telephone meters for use on certain telephone services have been available since February 1971. In the home situation, they are suitable for use by most subscribers who have access to S.T.D. 
Several different types of meters were tested. The type selected was imported from Britain. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following are the details of outstanding applications for telephone services in the subdivisions of Dundas, Greenough, Merredin and Yilgarn in the ElectoralDivision of Kalgoorlie: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In its original application for a commercial television station licence, United Telecasters Sydney Ltd (licensee of station TEN Sydney) stated it proposed that during the third year of operation Australian programmes would amount to 37.5 per cent of transmission time of 79) hours weekly 
In May, 1968, following the completion of three years operation, 46.3 per cent of the weekly 100 hour transmission of TEN was occupied by Australian programmes. 
Station TEN is at present credited with televising Australian programmes for 52 per cent of transmission time of about 122 hours weekly. 
Australian programmes at present televised by station TEN consist of Drama, Light Entertainment, Sport, News, Children's, Family Activities, Current Affairs, Religious Matter and Education. 
Television Programames: Station SAS 10 (Question No. 3814) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Television Features Department of the ABC. 
The ABCs Director of Television Features. 
Yes. The producers also sought and included in the programme the comments of the following distinguished members of the Australian Scientic community: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Consolidated Press Ltd, on behalf of Television Corporation Ltd, in its original application for a commercial television station licence indicated that it planned to provide approximately SO per cent of live programmes. 
At the start of transmission on15th September 1956, approximately 12 per cent of the 14 hours transmission time per week was occupied by Australian programmes. This figure rose to approximately 20 per cent of 24 hours per week of transmission time after six weeks operation. The Australian Broadcasting Control Board estimated that at 30th June 1957, when the station operated for 39 hours per week, 45 per cent of programmes consisted of Australian programmes. 
Station TCN is at present credited with televising Australian programmes for approximately 56 per cent of transmission time of 122 hours weekly. 
Australian programmes at present televised by TCN consist of Drama, Light Entertainment, Sport, News, Children's, Family Activities, Current Affairs, Religious Matter and Education. 
Television Programmes: Station HSV  7 (Question No. 3579) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In its original application for a commercial television station licence, the Herald and Weekly Times Ltd indicated that 'Seventy-five per cent of the programme material envisaged would be initiated by us with the assistance of Australian artists, musicians, technicians and contributors, both professional and amateur'. The figure was based on an initial transmission, schedule of 35 hours weekly. 
At the start of transmission on 4th November 1956, approximately 21 per cent of the 28 hours transmission time per week was occupied by Australian programmes. The Australian Broadcasting Control Board estimated that at 30th June 1957, when the station operated for 414 hours per week, 45 per cent of' programmes consisted of Australian programmes. 
Station HSV is at present credited with televising Australian programmes for approximately 56 per. cent of transmission time of 125 hours weekly. 
Australian programmes at present televised by HSV consist of Drama, Light Entertainment, Sport, News, Children's, Family Activities, Current Affairs, Religious Matter and Education. 
Television Station ATN  7 (Question No. 3580) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In its original application for a commercial television station licence Amalgamated Television Services Ply Ltd (licensee of station ATN Sydney) indicated that it planned to provide 67 per cent live programming each week, based on a weekly transmission schedule of 25 hours. 
At the start of transmission on 2nd December, 1956, approximately 44 per cent of the 37 hours transmission time per week was occupied by Australian programmes. The Australian Broadcasting Control Board estimated that at 30th June, 1937, when the station operated for 47 hours per week, 66 per cent of programmes consisted of Australian programmes. 
Station ATN is at present credited with televising Australian programmes for approximately 33 per cent of transmission time of about 120 hours weekly. 
Australian programmes at present televised by ATN consist of Drama, Light Entertainment, Sport, News, Children's, Family Activities, Current Affairs, Religious Matter and Education. 
Television Programmes: Station GTV 9  (Question No. 3581) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In its original application for a commercial television licence, General Television Corporation Pty Ltd (licensee of station GTV Melbourne) indicated that after 3 years of transmission it proposed to televise five programmes amounting to 62.8 per cent of transmission time based on an estimated weekly transmission time of 271 hours. 
Station GTV Melbourne commenced transmission on 19th January 1957. The Australian Broadcasting Control Board estimated that at 30th June 1960, when the station operated for 681 hours weekly, GTV was providing approximately 36.7 per cent Australian programmes. 
Station' GTV is at present credited with televising Australian programmes for 56 per cent of transmission time of 1264 hours weekly. 
Australian programmes at present televised by Station GTV consist of drama, light entertainment, sport, news, children's, family activities, current affairs, religious matter and education. 
Television Programmes: Station QTQ 9  (Question No. 3746) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In its original application for a commercial television station licence, Queensland Television Ltd (licensee of station QTQ Brisbane) indicated that after 1 year's transmission it proposed to televise live programmes for 43 per cent of transmission time of 36 hours weekly. 
QTQ completed its first year of transmission on 16th August 1960. At June 1960, 29.4 per cent of the weeky 60i hours transmission of QTQ was occupied by Australian programmes. It should be noted that in 1960 the Minister laid down a minimum requirement of 40 per cent Australian programmes for stations which had completed 3 years operation and because QTQ had not completed 3 years of transmission in I960, the station was not obliged to meet this requirement. 
Station QTQ is at present credited with televising Australian programmes for S3 per cent of transmission time of about 98 hours weekly. 
Australian programmes at present televised by station QTQ consist of Drama, Light Entertainment, Sport, News, Children's, Family Activities, Current Affairs, Religious Matter and Education. 
Television Programmes: Station BTQ 7 (Question No. 3747) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In its original application for a commercial television station licence, Brisbane TV Limited (licensee of station BTQ Brisbane) indicated that initially it proposed to televise live programmes for 50 per cent of transmission time of 31 hours weekly. 
BTQ commenced service on 1st November 1959. At June 1970, 21.1 per cent of the weekly 56 hours transmission on BTQ was occupied by Australian programmes. It should be noted that in I960 the Minister laid down a minimum requirement of 40 per cent Australian programmes for stations which had completed 3 years operation, and because BTQ had nol completed 3 years of transmission in 1960, the station was not obliged to meet this requirement. 
Station BTQ is at present credited with televising Australian programmes for 44 per cent of transmission time of about 98 hours weekly. The matter is being pursued with the station. 
Australian programmes at present televised by station BTQ consist of Drama, Light Entertainment, Sport, News, Children's, Family Activities, Current Affairs, Religious Matter and Education. 
Television Programmes: Station NWS 9  (Question No. 3748) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In its original application for a commercial television station licence Southern Television Corporation Ltd (licensee of station NWS Adelaide) indicated that initially it proposed to televise live programmes for 45- per cent of transmission time of 37 hours weekly, and it was hoped to increase this percentage as the station developed. 
NWS commenced service on 5th September 1959. At June 1960 27.8 per cent of the weekly 54) hours transmission of NWS was occupied by Australian programmes. It should be noted that in 1960 the Minister laid down a minimum requirement of 40 per cent Australian programmes for stations which had completed three years operation and because NWS had not completed three years of transmission in 1960, the station was not obliged to meet this requirement. 
Station NWS is at present credited with televising Australian programmes for 53 per cent of transmission time of about 99 hours weekly. 
Australian programmes at present televised by station NWS consist of Drama, Light Entertainment, Sport, News, Children's, Family Activities, Current Affairs, Religious Matter and Education. 
Television Programmes: Station ADS 7 (Question No. 3749) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In its original application for a commercial television station licence, Television Broadcasters Ltd (licensee of station ADS Adelaide) stated that initially it proposed to televise either live or recorded Australian programmes for 40 per cent of transmission time of 36 hours weekly. 
ADS commenced service on 20th October 1959. At June 1960 25.2 per cent of the weekly 58 hours transmission of ADS was occupied by Australian programmes. It should be noted that in I960 the Minister laid down a minimum requirement of 40 per cent Australian programmes for stations which had completed three years operation and because ADS had not completed three years of transmission in 1960, that station was not obliged to meet this requirement. 
Station ADS is at present credited with televising Australian programmes for 60 per cent of transmission time of about 100 hours weekly. 
Australian programmes at present televised by Station ADS consist of Drama, Light Entertainment, Sport, News, Children's, Family, Activities, Current Affairs, Religious Matter and Education. 
Television Programmes: Station A TV 0  (Question No. 3751) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In its original application for a commercial television station licence, Austarama Television Pty Ltd (licensee of station ATV Melbourne) stated that it proposed to televise Australian programmes for 58 per cent of transmission time of 42 hours weekly in the first year. The proposals of the company were stated to be dependent to some extent on the establishment of a system of programe exchange on a network basis with stations to be established in other capital cities. 
ATV commenced service on 1st August, 1964. At 1st August, 1965, ATV televised Australian programmes for 25.5 per cent of total transmission time, lt should be noted that in 1965 the Minister laid down a minimum requirement of 50 per cent Australian programmes for stations which had completed three years operation and because station ATV had not completed three years of transmission in 1965, it was not obliged to meet this requirement. After three years operation ATV met the requirement of 50 per cent Australian programmes. 
Station ATV is at present credited with televising Australian programmes for 59 per cent of transmission time of about 116 hours weekly. 
Austraiian programmes at present televised by station ATV consist of Drama, Light Entertainment, Sport, News, Children's, Family Activities, Current Affairs, Religious Matter and Education. 
Television Programmes: Station TEN 10 (Question No. 3753) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In its original application for a commercial television station licence, South Australian Telecasters Ltd (licensee of station SAS Adelaide) stated it proposed that during its -second and third years of operation, Australian programmes would occupy 53 per cent and 50 per cent respectively of . transmission schedules of 49 and 72 hours weekly. 
In July 1967, following- the completion ot two years operation, 48.0. per cent of the weekly 117 hours transmission of SAS was occupied by Australian programmes. In July, 1968, when the station operated for 119) Hours weekly, SAS was providing 52.1 per cent Australian programmes 
Station SAS is at present credited with televising Australian programmes for 50 per cent of transmission time of about 100 hours weekly. . 
Australian programmes at present televised by station SAS consist of Drama, Light Entertain? ment, Sport, News, Children's, Family Activities, Current Affairs, Religious Matter and Education. 
Television Programmes: Station TVT 6 (Question No. 3815) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In its original application for a commercial television station licence, Tasmanian Television Ltd (licensee of station TVT Hobart) indicated that it proposed to televise live programmes for 40 per cent of transmission time of 31 hours weekly. 
TVT commenced service on 23rd May 1960. At June 1961, 25.3 per cent of the weekly 39) hours transmission of TVT was occupied by Australian programmes. It should be noted that in 1960 the Minister laid down a minimum requirement of 40 per cent Australian programmes for stations which had completed three years operation, and because TVT had not completed three years of transmission in 1961, the station was not obliged to meet this requirement. 
Station TVT is at present credited with televising Austraiian programmes for 63 per cent of transmission time of about 70 hours weekly. 
Australian programmes at present televised by station TVT consist of Drama, Light Entertainment, Sport, News, Children's, Family Activities, Current Affairs, Religious Matter and Education. 
Television Programmes: Station  STW  9  (Question No. 3816) 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In its original application for a commercial television station licence, Swan Television Ltd (licensee of station STW Perth) indicated that it proposed to televise live programmes for 48.8 per cent of transmission time of 43 hours weekly. 
STW Perth commenced service on 12th June 1965. During the year ended 30tb June 1966, an average of 34.7 per cent of the average of 58 hours weekly transmission of STW was occupied by Australian programmes. It should be noted thai in 1965 the Minister laid down a minimum requirement of 50 per cent Australian programmes for stations which had completed three years operation and because station STW had not completed three years of transmission in 1966, it was not obliged to meet this requirement. 
Station STW is at present credited with televising Australian programmes for 59 per cent of transmission time of about 94 hours weekly. 
Australian programmes at present televised by station STW consist of Drama, Light Entertainment, Sport, News, Children's, Family Activities, Current Affairs, Religious Matter and Education. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In its original application for a commercial television station licence, TVW Limited (licensee of station TVW Perth) indicated that it proposed to televise live programmes for 41 per cent of transmission time. 
TVW Perth commenced service on 16th October 1959. At June 1960, 28.1 per cent of the weekly 444 hours transmission of TVW was occupied by Australian programmes. It should be noted that in I960 the Minister laid down a minimum requirement of 40 per cent Australian programmes for stations which had completed three years operation, and because TVW had not completed three years of transmission in 1960, the station was not obliged to meet this requirement. In 1962 TVW provided 42.8 per cent which met the requirement. 
Station TVW is at present credited with televising Australian programmes for 52 per cent of transmission time of about 94 hours weekly. 
Australian programmes at present televised by station TVW consist of Drama, Light Entertainment, Sport, News, Children's, Family Activities, Current Affairs, Religious Matter and Education. 
Television Station GTV 9  (Question No. 4469) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
General Television Corporation Pty Ltd (GTV 9), Melbourne and Herald-Sun T.V. Pty Ltd (HSV 7), Melbourne lease separate television relay facilities between Sydney and Melbourne under agreements with the Post Office. 
The terms of the agreement between General Television Pty Ltd and the Post Office provide for en average usage of the facilities of 70 hours weekly in each direction whilst the agreement between Herald-Sun T.V. Pty Ltd and the Post Office provides for an average usage of 35 hours weekly in each direction. The rates for the leases of these facilities are matters for private negotiation between the Post Office and the parties concerned and it would not be proper for me to release publicly in the House the information sought by the honourable member. 
General Television Corporation Pty Ltd is authorised to make arrangements with Television Corporation Limited (TCN9), Sydney and the Australian Broadcasting Commission for joint-use of. the facilities leased by General Television Corporation Pty Ltd, such arrangements to be mutually agreed upon by General Television Corporation Pty Ltd, Television Corporation Limited and the Australian Broadcasting Commission. However, the charge in this respect is a matter of private negotiation between the parties. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The cost of the letter coding system was $3.58m. 
Public tenders under Schedule C.8754 were called on 21st July 1961 and closed on 3rd October 1961. 
(a) Telephone and Electrical Industries Pty Ltd, Faraday Park, Meadowbank, New South Wales (Now - Plessey Telecommunications Pty Ltd). (b) Conditions - Supply, and installation of a total mechanised mail handling system. Contract 26145 was issued on 19th June 1962 and provided for completion of the entire project by May 1965. The letter coding and decoding system formed a major part of the overall system. 
Eight other companies tendered letter coding equipment, generally to overseas designs. It is not Post Office practice to make public the names of unsuccessful tenderers. Under Item 1 of the Schedule, for which there were six offers, tenders were called for the supply and installation of a complete mechanised mail handling system to cater for letters, newspapers and packets, parcels and inward and outward bag handling. The lowest tender was rejected because the equipment offered would not have had the capacity to meet the specified loads. The additional equipment necessary to meet those loads would have carried the total price above that of the next lowest tenderer, Telephone and Electrical Industries. The other tenders under this item were unsuccessful because of higher prices. Item 3 of the Schedule, for which there were eight offers called for the supply and installation of a letter coding and decoding system complete with automatic letter transfer between stages. After close analysis of the offers for letter coding equipment, the offer by Telephone and Electrical Industries was chosen because the letter handling systems offered by other tenderers did not meet the Australian Post Office requirement for a completely integrated letter coding system. In addition Telephone and Electrical Industries tendered proven equipment for the rest of the project and it was judged advantageous for all mail exchange equipment to be supplied and installed by the one contractor. 
(a) The total operating cost for the letter coding system during 1970-71 was $2,067,000. (b) The total maintenance cost for the letter coding system during 1970-71 was $1,142,000. 
(a) All mail handling plant, including the letter coding system, is maintained by departmental staff, (b) After the equipment was installed, a contract was placed with Telephone and Electrical Industries for specialist advice in the care and maintenance of the system, but departmental staff were already carrying out most of the actual maintenance work. The contract was for the period 1st December 1966 to 29th June 1968 and involved a total cost of $134,343. It was not renewed in 1968 as specialist support was no longer necessary. 
Mail traffic, like vehicular traffic or telephone traffic, fluctuates in intensity throughout the day, with the heaviest surge occurring in the late afternoon and early evening. Mail is also subject to seasonal peaks, the most intense of which predictably occur in November/December and at Easter time. In designing equipment to handle mail traffic, the seasonal peak hour load is the criterion the designer must use in dimensioning the system. 
For Redfern a figure of 300,000 letters per hour was quoted as the maximum theoretical throughput, to enable tenderers to determine the required number of coding positions and decoding machines, and the carrying capacity for the letter distribution network. This figure was derived from a projection of actual traffic counts, and provided for reasonable traffic growth and the fact that 100 per cent machine utilisation cannot be achieved in practice, because: 
tea and health breaks for the operators account for 10 minutes non coding time in each hour per position; 
there are always some rostered coding operators absent, e.g. because of illness. The average absentee rate during week days is 8 per cent; 
operators cannot sustain maximum performance for long periods of time; 
some of the positions are out of service for maintenance purposes; 
mail to be coded is not always available. 
Taking all technical human factors into account, the practically, achievable peak hour throughput currently is around 180,000 letters per hour. 
During a normal day the number of positions staffed varies up to a maximum of about 120, and the number of letters coded per hour varies up to a maximum of about 120,000. During the peak season all the available positions are staffed for lengthy periods during the day and the load coded during the day and the load coded during a peak hour approaches 160,000 letters. During a normal day, a load of around 1.5 million is coded and during a peak period this has been increased to a maximum of 2.4 million. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I understand that  Mr Packer  has made certain comments relating to control of commercial television stations by newspaper groups. 
and (3) I can deal only with that part of the question which relates to the interests of newspaper companies in commercial television stations. The statement attributed to  Mr Packer  does not reflect the existing position in relation to the interests of newspapers in the fifteen metropolitan commercial television stations in operation, suggesting that the relevant provisions of the Broadcasting and Television Act, which are admittedly complicated, have not been understood. Basically, under the present legislation, no person (or company) is permitted to have a prescribed interest in more than two television station licences. However, the 'aw affords protection to those persons who held interests at the time the present legislation was introduced i.e. 17th December 1964, in excess of those now permitted, but which were within the bounds of the law then existing. In general terms, a 'prescribed interest' is a shareholding, voting or financial interest in excess of 5 per cent, held directly or indirectly, ia a licensee company. In relation to the question of control' of licences, it should be explained that under the present law, a person (or company) is deemed to be  a position to control a company if he is, broadly, in a position to control more than 15 per cent of the shares or votes in that company, either directly or indirectly. Full details of the interests of capital city newspaper groups in commercial television stations are contained in Appendix J of the Annual Report of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board. It is to be noted that the following metropolitan newspaper companies have, within the meaning of the Broadcasting and Television Act, a controlling interest in more than one metropolitan (capital city) commercial television station - such interests being as indicated: 
The answer to the honourable member's questions is as follows: 
The ABC has never provided direct telecasts of local football matches in Perth city areas, except in the case of Grand Finals which have been telecast direct in some years by special arrangement with the football authorities. 
Prior to this year it was the practice of the ABC and commercial stations to play videotape recordings of Perth football matches on the evenings of the match days on payment to the local football authorities of a negotiated fee for the rights. This year however negotiations for these rights failed, although the ABC was able to arrange for direct telecasts of Perth football matches to be transmitted on the ABC's country stations throughout Western Australia. 
As indicated in the answer to Question 1, the ABC has never been able to negotiate with local football authorities rights for direct telecasts of football matches in Perth city areas. 
See Answer (1). 
I am afraid this is a somewhat difficult question to answer in detail during a period of questions without notice. However, I will answer briefly to the effect that early in 1959 the Government set up a committee of 5 people to investigate the capital structure of the Australian Post Office and that committee made a recommendation as to a commencement point in terms of capital at that particular point of time. It was not necessarily the amount of money that had been advanced from the Treasury, less any profits which had been made or money which had been repaid to the Treasury up to that time. It was a new commencement point and, since then, advances by the Treasurer have been shown as part of the capital of the Post Office and any payments that have been made - that is, in terms of profits made - have been deductions from that particular amount, so that the figure which the honourable member first mentioned, which I believe to be approximately correct if not completely correct, would represent the summation of these figures from the time of that independent committee. 
On Tuesday of last week, there was a 'This Day Tonight' programme which involved a draft resister by the name of Matteson and the Federal 
Attorney-General. I did, as the newspapers have indicated, ask for a written report from the Australian Broadcasting Commission, believing that as the Minister responsible for administering the Broadcasting and Television Act I was, in my own ministerial right and also on behalf of the Parliament, entitled to seek a report. For the benefit of members - I believe that they will be interested - I might summarise shortly the report that I received. 
The overall programme content was in general terms discussed with the AttorneyGeneral who consented to participate. Within the ABC, consideration was given to the question whether there was an obligation on the ABC to inform the police of Matteson's appearance. Advice was given by the ABC's own internal legal adviser that there was no obligation to inform the police. The ABC employee who contacted Matteson had been a fellow student with, him at school and the Sydney University. This employee, after several hours wait at Sydney University, saw Matteson there and when extending the invitation for Matteson to appear cautioned him that the ABC could offer him no protection from the police, and did not qualify such warning in any way. 
After Matteson had been interviewed, final comment was sought from  Senator Greenwood.  At that point and without warning, Matteson left the studio by the means of his earlier access. He was seen to have passed through a door in the viewing gallery which automatically closed behind him. He apparently was not further seen or recognised by any other staff member, some of whom at that time were involved in discussion or were directing members of the Commonwealth Police within the building. The means by which Matteson left the building are not known. 
I am advised by the General Manager of the Australian Broadcasting Commission that the Commission is conducting a research, having regard to the introduction of daylight saving, to ascertain what are the broad wishes of the community in relation to news and other regular broadcasts or telecasts. When the research is concluded the Commission will make a judgment. But I realise as does the honourable member that not only farmers are perhaps inconvenienced. A good many other people, particularly those in the southern section of Australia, find the daylight hours convenient for sport and other activities and would prefer a telecast or broadcast of the news to be later than it is at the present time. 
About 2 years ago I indicated that some 38 additional stations in stage 7 of the provision of television would become available in due course. I am afraid that there will be delay before some of those stations can be brought into operation. At the  moment  I am having discussions with my Department and the Australian Broadcasting Control Board, with a desire on my part to have the stations erected at the earliest possible moment. I hope that before the House rises I will be able to indicate the actual programme. But I want to be sure that when I indicate the programme, the completion dates that I give to the House will in fact be achieved and there will not be further delay beyond those points of time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Demand for telephone services involving the provisions for new lines or equipment in 1970-71 after allowing for withdrawn applications which numbered 43,672 was as fallows: - 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
Details of payments received from each of the Departments concerned are as follows. The amounts shown represent the payments received for the various functions performed on behalf of the Departments concerned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Royal Cypher is displayed with the words Royal Mail' on mail vans but not on other vehicles as their use is not restricted to mail services. Post Office policy also provides for the Royal Cypher to be displayed on letter receivers. Although many receivers do not at present portray the Royal Cypher, this is being progressively corrected in conjunction with routine maintenance. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
None of the present 70 District Postal Managers were designated Postmaster immediately prior to promotion as District Postal Manager. However, earlier in their career, 23 held an appointed position of Postmaster and a further 40 acted as Postmaster. 
Postmasters are eligible for promotion  as  District Postal Managers but selections are usually made from officers who have the wider administrative experience as an assistant to a District Postal Manager. It is the usual practice for officers who wish to make  a  career in district management to move from a Post Office to a District Office at an early stage so as to gain administrative experience. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) There are no firm proposals at this stage for further development of television services in Western Australia. The Australian Broadcasting Control Board has under continuous review the possibilities of the further extension of televisionto areas for which service has not yet been authorised but, as the honourable member will appreciate, there are both technical and economic difficulties involved in the further extension of television to relatively remote and sparsely populated areas such as those, generally, remaining without service. The Board's engineers have made investigations in relation to  a  number of such areas throughout the Commonwealth including some areas in Western Australia, but it istoo early at this stage to indicate the likely outcome of the Board's studies. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The technical operating conditions for the Southern Cross-Bullfinch stationwere recently determined by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board. Detailed planning for the provision of (he station is currently receiving the attention of my Department. 
While it is not expected, because of the distance involved, that Koolyanobbing will be served by the Southern Cross-Bullfinch station, the operating conditions determined by the Board will permit the establishment of a translator station at Koolyanobbing at a later dale if such a station can he justified. At this stage it would appear that the costs of a translator station would be prohibitive having regard to the fact that the population which would be served is of the order of 300 only. 
As the honourable member inaware, the Southern Cross-Bullfinch station is one of 38 stations tobe established in relatively remote and widelyseparated areas throughout the Commonwealth as the current or seventh stage of television development. The whole task is one of con siderable  magnitude and it  would notseem practicable on present  indications,for  the Southern Cross-Bullfinch station to  be  completed before mid 1973. However,  every endeavour  is being made to achieve an  earlier  commencement date. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) Sixteen. 
Eight. 
(a)Cannington, Como, Manning, Redcliffe, South Perth, Queenspark, Maniana, Bentley, Cloverdale,Rivervale, South Guildford 
Cannington, Como, Manning,Redcliffe, South Perth, St James, Wilson. 
The 3letter receivers were removed from points at which little use was being made of them. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Observations by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board indicate that the voluntary code is being observed by all stations. 
Yes. Under the Television Programme Standards of the Australian Broacasting Control Board there are restrictions on the televising  of  these types of advertisements in periods before 7.30 p.m. 
A recent survey conducted by the Board in Melbourne indicated that about 40 per cent of 13-year-olds were viewing  at  9.30 p.m. I must emphasise that it is inherent in the Board's pro' gramme standards that parents will supervise the viewing of their children after the close of evening family and children's viewing time at 7.30 p.m. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
 Yes. In addition, however, the survey necessarily took into account the technical advantages lo be gained from the fact thai a main telecommunications switching centre is located at Kadina. The relative merits of the initially nominated and possible alternative centres for Area Headquarters are to be personally studied by the New Area Managers immediately after they have taken up duty, probably by about mid- 1972. lt is then expected thai a final selection of the centres to become Area Headquarters will be mads either late in 1972 or early in 1973 
I would also refer the honourable member to the statement I made in the House of Representatives on 26th October 1971 regarding an important change lo the original scheme outlined in my previous statement in the House on 16th September last. This change will very substantially reduce the possibility that a centre not chosen as the Area Management Headquarters would be adversely affected to any great extent 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Many thousands of people have been interviewed in 'Four Corners' and 'This Day Tonight' since January, 1970. The time and the administrative cost involved in providing the information requested would be considerable and beyond what might be reasonably expected of the ABC. 
The ABC determines fees paid having regard to its assessment of the value of the particular contribution and the expertise of the person interviewed. It regards this information as confidential and believes its publication could prove embarrassing to the ABC and the people concerned. 
I am not aware of the assertions made by the honourable member. However, he will know that the categories attracting special postage concession relate to educational and scientific areas and that many of the journals which are published by parents and citizens associations are notices concerning meetings, social activities, etc., which could not be regarded by anybody as being related to the dissemination of educational material. 
The answer to the honourable member's question- is as follows: 
and (2) Four written quotes were obtained on the 10th September, 1971, for the conveyance of mail by road between Melbourne and Adelaide as from the 14th September, 1971. This was an interim arrangement pending the calling of public tenders which closed on the 24th September, 1971. The lowest written quote and the lowest tender were accepted. 
The successful tenderer was Ansett Transport Industries (Operations) Pty Ltd who tendered at the rate of 0.9  cents  per lb. 
Twenty-seven tenders were received. It is not Post Office policy to make public the names and prices of unsuccessful tenderers. 
Pre-war Commonwealth, State and  Municipal Debts  (Question No. 3730) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) Owing to the wide disparity in the volume and nature of postal articles handled in the Mail Exchanges concerned and the problems of cost escalation over the period, the figures are expressed in terms of directly classified operating costs per dollar of postage revenue received. The costs used are those incurred for operations performed at the Mail Exchange and do not include those incurred in transportation, delivery, handlings at all post offices and administration. Comparative figures for the Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane Mail Exchanges between 1965-66 - the last financial year prior to the introduction of the letter coding system at Sydney - and 1969-70 are as follows: 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The assumption of the Honourable the Leader of the Opposition is entirely incorrect. No direction in writing or otherwise was given by me to the Australian Broadcasting Commission. 
The circumstances were that having received an indication from the Right Honourable the Prime Minister on the 22nd November 1971 of a desire to address the Australian nation by the use of television,I spoke to the General Manager of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. I asked if he would consider it appropriate that the Prime Minister, following his overseas visit, should be given the opportunity to use the National service for that purpose. 
The General Manager informed me that the matter would be considered. 
Later on the same day the General Manager advised me that he bad consulted the  Chairman  of the Commission and that a telecast could be arranged for the evening of either the 25th or 26th November. 
For the information of honourable members, I present a financial and statistical bulletin on the activities of the Australian Post Office for the year ended 30th June 1971. 
I am, of course, aware that a programme, 'Monday Conference', is televised by the Australian Broadcasting Commission on most Monday evenings. 1 did not see the programme which featured Professor Ogg. I think there would be no difficulty in arranging with the ABC for the scripts of both the programmes mentioned by the honourable member to be made available to honourable members. 
 I am. rather surprised that the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  should raise this matter at this, point in the parliamentary sessional period.. I made a statement on it in September and another in October. Since then 1 have not had one question from honourable members opposite in relation to any aspect of the matters which were included in those statements. I believe it is fair to say that there has been no request from the Opposition to the Leader of the House  (Mr Swartz)  - 
I was commenting on the fact there had been no questions directed to me in relation to either of those statements on area management since they were made in September and October. Is this to be an indication of the real interest of honourable members opposite in this matter or are we to remind ourselves that 2 or 3 days ago there were sitting in this House and consulting with a large number of members, as is their right, representatives from the Post Office unions. Representatives on the unions sent to every member large screeds of Untruthful comment on area management. These representatives have been consulting with honourable members opposite and it has pleased honourable members to back up what has been said to them by representatives of the unions with a motion for the suspension of Standing Orders. 

 Mr Speaker, 1 do not know how far you would allow me to go in relation to this question of area management, but it did seem to me that the. honourable member for Dawson was allowed a good deal of latitude in discussing this important proposal. I believe the statement which 1 made in October was a pretty clear indication of a slow process of implementation, giving every opportunity to the staff to make representations and giving every consideration to the staff during the process. It is very easy for the honourable member for Dawson to raise all sorts of bogies in relation to the problems which may or may not develop. But, as 1 said* in my last statement on this matter, practically every member of the staff who will go from his  present location to an area centre will in fact go of his own choice. 
When did you arrive? 
I thought about half a minute in this debate. 
Motion (by  Sir Alan  Hulme) agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question put: 
by leave -  Mr Speaker,  in May 1969, I announced the Government's plans for the seventh stage of television development, involving the establishment of 38 low-power stations at relatively remote centres throughout the Commonwealth, at a cost of almost $5m. It was generally accepted that the stations would be provided by mid-1973 although it was realised at the time that, in view of the .great amount of work involved, this goal might be difficult of achievement. As honourable members may recall, the stations were to be established on the basis that programmes would be provided by stations utilising, wherever practicable, Post Office broad-band communications systems, either existing or proposed, and that where such links were not available, special minimum- type micro-wave links would be specially provided to carry programmes to the areas concerned. It will be appreciated that the task of establishing the 38 stations concerned in widely separated areas throughout the Commonwealth is one of considerable magnitude, involving not only the planning and establishment of the television stations themselves, but the construction of the various programme relay links required over long distances. In fact, this project virtually doubles the number of stations in the national network bringing the total to 82. The project has involved the carrying out of extensive engineering surveys by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board in conjunction with my Department in each of the 38 areas concerned, in order to obtain the basic information for determining technical operating conditions. In addition, it has been necessary for my Department to conduct detailed field surveys along the lengthy routes over which the micro-wave links are to be established. lt has, however, already been possible to bring 5 of the 38 stations into operation, namely those at Cloncurry, Julia Creek, Richmond and Hughenden in Queensland, and Norseman in Western Australia. The Mary Kathleen station will commence service shortly. The earlier establishment of these stations was made possible by the fact that these centres were situated along existing Post Office communication links with television programme relay capabilities. The present position with regard to the remaining 33 stations is that most of the technical specifications for the stations have now been determined by the Board and action is being taken by the Post Office towards obtaining the equipment for the establishment of the stations and associated micro-wave links. It must bc pointed out, however, that some of the specialised equipment required for the project must be obtained from overseas. 
Due to the complexity and great extent of the work involved, together with shortages of key staff, it became apparent earlier this year that the project could not possibly be completed by mid-1973 and that unless special procedures were adopted, a delay of some 2 years on the originally expected completion date for the project might be involved. Accordingly, I directed my Department which, as I have indicated, is responsible for the actual establishment of the stations following receipt of the technical specifications from the Board, to examine the possibilities of reducing any delays to the minimum practicable. The Post Office has now completed its studies and I have received from the Australian Broadcasting Control Board a revised timetable showing the dates by which the various stations are expected to be completed. I seek leave to incorporate the detailed schedule in Hansard. ifr SPEAKER-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 

<graphic href="075131197112090_109_2.jpg"></graphic>

In summary, and providing no unforeseen difficulties arise, particularly in relation to overseas equipment, it is expected that all of the Queensland stations will be completed by the end of 1973 and that the Western Australian stations will be established progressively up to July 1974. If should be noted that a special trunk line and television relay system must be provided for the Esperance station, hence the expected completion date for this station is July 1974. The 2 South Australian stations, namely at Woomera and Ceduna, will be completed by October 1973. The Alice Springs (NT) station will operate with the use of taped programmes because of the lack of a Post Office broadband communications link to the area, and will be completed by December 1972. The King Island (Tasmania) station will commence operations in February next year. 
Honourable members may be assured that the Government, the Board and  my  Department all fully appreciate the desire of residents of relatively remote areas to have television available to them as early as practicable. The time-table which has now been determined is the most expeditious that can be arranged on the basis of present expectations. 1 would point out that it has only been possible to achieve these targets by the adoption of certain special procedures which, although involving some additional expenditure, will enable earlier establishment of the stations. 1 have, in addition, asked my Department to remain alert to take advantage of any possibilities which may arise that could lead to earlier completion dates, especially for these Western Australian stations presently scheduled for completion in 1974. I present the following paper: 
Progress with Seventh Stage of Television Development - Ministerial Statement, 9th December 1971. 
Motion (by  Mr Garland)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
The answer to the honourable member's  question  is as follows: 
Yes. 
The  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board has informed me that this claim was made in the recent Annual Report of the Anti-Cancer Council of Victoria, although the actual reference in the report was to the removal of cigarette promotion rather than the removal of cigarette smoking. 
I understand that the Canadian Government has decided to prohibit all advertising and promotion of cigarettes from January next year. 
The United Slates of America have already banned cigarette advertising on radio and television. 
The ban which has been placed on cigarette advertising in certain overseas countries appears to vary somewhat from country to country. From information available to me there are currently some 13 countries in which a ban on cigarette advertising has been imposed to some degree; in some cases the ban applies only to television advertising, in other cases to television and radio and in a few cases to all advertising media. Although I am aware of only 13 countries applying a ban, the honourable member has no doubl noticed that the most recent Annual Report of the Anti-Cancer Council of Victoria suggests that cigarette advertising on television is now banned in 17 countries, including Britain, America and Canada; the ban in the case of Canada is, of course, to apply after 1st January, 1972. I am not in a position to provide any accurate information on whether the ban on cigarette advertising in the countries concerned was applied voluntarily or compulsorily, although 1 understand that in the case of Denmark the ban on cigarette advertising on radio, television and in the cinema, was voluntarily applied. 
This portion of the honourable member's question presents an opportunity for me to correct a wrong impression which seems to have been gained from an answer I gave recently at Question time on this subject. Initially it mu-i be understood that the question of any controls on cigarette advertising or distribution is basically one for my colleague, the Minister for Health, and his department. The mailer has been considered several times by the National Health and Medical Research Council, and the implementation of some of the recommendations made by that body is a matter for Slate Government* s far as the Federal Government is concerned, the Cabinet has carefully considered the submissions made to it, and has firmly decided that the situation is best handled by tin education cam&gt; i"n regarding the hazards of smoking, and by a voluntary agreement regarding some forms nf advertising. 
It follows therefore that the production and marketing of cigarettes is an entirely legal operation, and to ban their advertising on radio and television only would be ah act of discrimination against some media, to (he very great advantage of others. In the United Slates, for instance, two surveys have recently been published showing the startling increase in the advertising of cigarettes in magazines since such advertisements were banned in the broadcast media. Such advertising in most leading magazines increased by well over 100 per cent compared with the same period the previous year, and in one case the increase was 533 per cent. 
In the light of this information it is apparent, that any action to ban cigarette advertising on radio and television would only have the effect of very substantially redistributing advertising income among the media, which depend on that revenue for existence, without bringing about any change in the total volume of such advertising 1 should add that the voluntary code governing the advertising of cigarettes, recently revised by the industry, in consultation wilh the Department of Health and the Control Board, appears to have achieved its object in that no advertising of this nature is now broadcast or televised in proximity to programmes which are addressed to young people. 
It is not for me, of course, as PostmasterGeneral to determine the matter of any health hazards which may accompany the smoking of cigarettes. What I am attempting to do is to put forward the argument that discrimination in respect of one section of the advertising media - because it is one over the which the Federal Government can exercise some controls - cannot bo justified. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Some limit has to be placed on the distance over which local calls be allowed, having regard to the economics of plant provision and the costs of operating and maintaining the telephone network as a whole. Adoption of the proposal recommended by the Victorian Decentralisation Advisory Committee to include Ballarat, Bendigo. Latrobe Vasey, Portland and Wodonga Albury in the Melbourne metropolitan area for call charging purposes would entail an extension of the limits of the existing Melbourne local call area which simply could not be justified on economic grounds H .would also entail a heavy increase on the rentals for telephone services in those country areas, which, although offset lo some degree- by a reduction in call fees, would be objected to strongly by those subscribers who did not have a marked community of interest with the metropolitan area and therefore did not call Melbourne subscribers very often. Moreover, the granting of any preferential treatment to. the centres mentioned would have far reaching repercussions so far as the Post Office is concerned since 01 ner centres - not only in Victoria,' but also in the other States - would seek similar treatment in respect of telephone calls to their capital city. similiar comments also apply in the case of telex charges except that the charging districts are somewhat larger. Ballarat, Bendigo and Latrobe Valley telex subscribers are already included jin the Melbourne charging district and, consequently, calls between these subscribers and Melbourne are at the minimum rate. Calls from Portland and Wodonga.'Albury te'ex subscribers to Melbourne fall within the 101- 200 miles category and because nf the distance involved their inclusion in die Melbourne district could not be justified. In any case, such action hardly be taken without due cognizance being given to the claims of other centres. 
No. the many implications of the proposal to introduce a uniform charge for all telephones are still under examination by my Department. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The basic policy of the Government in relation to educational television, following its consideration of the report of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board's Advisory Committee on Educational Television Services (the Weeden Committee), was outlined in a statement which I made in Parliament on 11th May, 1966. 
Whilst the Government supported the Committee's views that instructional television programmes ought to be developed as an integral part of the Australian education system, and agreed that education was primarily a matter for State Authorities the Government did not accept the proposal of the advisory Committee that' a separate network of educational television stations was necessary. It considered that the facilities of the Australian Broadcasting Commission and those of commercial stations, if required, were adequate for the forseeable future to provide satisfactory educational television services. lt was considered by the Government, that, as education was a sovereign responsibility of the States, an essential first step in assessing the requirements for educational television was to first obtain from State Governments details of their needs and priorities, and the extent to which they would be prepared to incur expenditure on educational television services. For this purpose, the Government initiated discussions between Commonwealth and State Ministers at a conference held in 1966 and the State Governments have since been examining their individual positions in this matter, bearing in mind' their heavy commitments in the field of education generally. The Commonwealth had previously indicated that it was prepared to provide some additional finance for expanding instructional television programmes if such expansion were desired by the States, and if the States were also prepared to contribute resources for the purpose. 
A further conference took place on 17th November, 1969. by which time it had become apparent that overseas development of new techniques in electronic aids to teaching, particularly advances in television recording and renlay requirements, had become a significant consideration in relation to any planning for the future development of educational television services. 
Accordingly, it was agreed at the 1969 Conference that a Special Committee comprising Commonwealth and State representatives should be established for the purpose of investigating technological developments with a view to reporting back to a further meeting of Federal and State Ministers. Whilst the committee's investigations are still continuing, they have been complicated by the fact hat a system for the recording and replaying of educational television programmes, to be effective, must meet the every-day educational requirements of simplicity in operation, interchangeability between reproducing units and maximum reliability with minimum technical maintenance. 
On present indications, it would seem possible that the use of recorded programmes and playback machines may be the answer rather than the use of a transmitted system of educational television programmes; this bears out the wisdom of the Government's original decision not to proceed with the establishment of a transmitted system of educational television services. 
Whilst it was recognised that a study of the technology developments would not be a short term project, it is essential, nevertheless, to have an informed view on the various issues relating to educational television prior to any decision being taken as to the manner in which educational television services might most appropriately be developed. 
The position is therefore that the whole question of educational television is still under consideration both from a technological viewpoint and from the aspect of the needs and priorities of State governments in this field. As the Honourable member will be aware, the Australian Broadcasting Commission is* continuing to provide a considerable number of hours of educational television programmes. 
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (Question No. 4184) 
The information which was given to me by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board following an inquiry which the Board conducted into the introduction of colour television was that in relation to the national service, the total cost over the first 6 years would be approximately $46m. In relation to the commercial services over the same 6year period I am speaking in terms of capital and recurrent expenses the expenditure would be approximately $70m. I believe that colour television is desired by the vast majority of the Australian people, many of whom have seen it overseas. Representations have been made to me for the introduction of colour television. These have come from private individuals within the community rather than from commercial interests or the media. They have suggested that the Government should indicate, as it has now done, a date on which colour television will commence. I believe that colour television can be of great value to the Australian people in terms of culture, but that depends to some degree upon the quantum and the quality of the colour television films becoming available around the world. Today most television films are produced in colour rather than in black and white, although when seen on a black and white set they come out as black and white pictures. 
Honourable members will be aware that the Australian Broadcasting Control Board held an inquiry into colour television some 2 or 3 years ago and more recently an inquiry in relation to frequency modulation broadcasting. I think the honourable member did not mention the word 'sound' when he spoke about fidelity. I emphasise this because television will give a picture but frequency modulation broadcasting will only give sound. I think therefore it is fairly obvious to most honourable members who have read the details of the evidence that it would be cheaper to install a system of frequency modulation broadcasting than it would be to introduce colour television. 
There are problems associated with frequency modulation broadcasting. There are 3 particular areas - the AM or amplitude modulation area which is used in broadcasting and the VHF or very high frequency area which is used for television. When television was introduced in approximately 1956-57 there was on the VHF band a reservation for use of frequency modulation at a later point of time. The demand for television in Australia was such that the Huxtable Committee, I think it was, offered advice to the Government that in fact that section should be used for additional television stations. Therefore there is not room at present in the VHF band for frequency modulation because this band is taken up with television. 
Throughout the world there has been very little, if any, use made in the UHF or ultra high frequency band for frequency modulation broadcasting, although I believe there is some use being made of this band in relation to television. I understand that very little evidence was given to the Board in its inquiry as to the use of either television or FM in these 2 bands. So the Board has been forced to seek technical advice through its own officers overseas and use its personal knowledge before it is able to issue the report. I believe that the matters I have mentioned are quite important in terms of the introduction of FM. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 

 Mr Speaker, the purpose of this Bill is to amend the Television Stations Licence Fees Act. Machinery amendments are necessary to this Act because of the proposed amendment of the Broadcasting and Television Act which I have introduced concerning the period for which commercial television station licences may be renewed. At present, licences may be renewed for only 1 year and thus the annual fee is automatically related to the renewal date. However, in view of the possibility of licences being renewed for periods of other than a year or years, it has been necessary to amend the Licence Fees Act to ensure that licence fees continue to be payable annually during the continuing currency of the licence. 1 commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr  Stewart)  adjourned. 
I will not detain the House for long on this matter. I merely express surprise that, a matter having been raised from this side of the House, the opportunity was taken without any previous thought by the Opposition to try to make political capital out of this important issue. 
I know that the honourable member for Grayndler would not do it. I just wish to indicate that the Government will not support 'he motion to suspend Standing Orders. I have pleasure in moving: 
That the question be now put  (The bells being rung) 

<graphic href="076131197202233_56_3_3_P.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="076131197202233_56_3_2_N.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="076131197202233_56_3_1_A.jpg"></graphic>

Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 

 Mr Speaker, the purpose of this Bill is to amend the Broadcasting Stations Licence Fees Act. Machinery amendments are necessary to this Act because of the proposed amendment of the Broadcasting and Television Act which I have introduced concerning the period for which commercial broadcasting station licences may be renewed. At present, licences may be renewed for only 1 year and thus the annual fee is automatically related to the renewal date. However, in view of the possibility of licences being renewed for periods of other than a year or years, it has been necessary to amend the Licence Fees Act to ensure that licence fees continue to be payable annually during the continuing currency of the licence. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Stewart)  adjourned. 
I am indebted to the Opposition for allowing me to speak next, with 15 minutes at my disposal, with 2 . members of the Opposition following, each with a lesser number of minutes available to him. The peculiarity of this debate is that the mover of the resolution and the 2 Opposition speakers will be against me in this instance. I believe this to be a most extraordinary debate. It is extraordinary in the way in which it comes before the House. Only one member on this side rose to support it. He is relying on the Opposition to do so. 
I did not look behind me but I would be very surprised if that were not so. 
I appreciate the interjection. It is an extraordinary debate in that the mover of the motion did require the support of the Opposition. That reminds me that this is an election year. I know why the Opposition joined him. I am not quite sure of the motive of the mover, but it may be that that also is associated with this being an election year. I think that, rather than going into ali the detail that the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Jeff Bate)  went into, we should try to see the Post Office as it is. It has 2 functions. It is first of all a business undertaking. I do not think anyone in this House would deny that that is a basic function of the Post Office. The Post Office is also a service organisation for the community. In either area it is necessary that there be business judgments and that there be judgments in relation to the elements of service which are to be provided for the community. If anyone believes that the latter is not taken into consideration, I would remind th.e House of merely one thing, that is. that there are some parts of Australia where it costs up to 54c fo deliver a mail article, the basic postage rate for which is 7c, from the local post office to a person's residence. I believe that that is sufficient indication that the Post Office is regarded as a service organisation and thai the motive of profit is not considered in relation to (hat element of service to the Australian community. 1 say that as a business undertaking it requires business judgment. If anybody says he can find better managers of the post offices than those who are employed in the Post Office, whose daily task is to look after the interests of the Post. Office, that is a criticism of the employees of the Post Office, and I resent and reject any such criticism. The recommendations for closures come from that area, notwithstanding that the final judgment may be mine, as the Minister, and 1. accept it. The honourable member for Macarthur commenced his address to the House by saying that over 200 post offices will be closed this year. It is interesting to look at the statistics and to note why this discussion is taking place in an election year. In 1968, 189 were closed; in 1969, 214 were closed; in 1970 the number was 191 and in 1971, 226 were closed. This trend is continuing during this year. Why has this matter been brought up in an election year? Why has it been put forward as something quite extraordinary in relation to the administration of the Australian Post Office? 
I want to say to the honourable member for Macarthur and to the House that the criteria in relation to whether a post office stays open or is closed is a matter for determination by the efficient officers within my own Department and under no circumstances is a post office or a postal service to be seen to be a drain in relation to wasteful expenditure within the community. I will give to the House more evidence to justify that statement. But let me go right back to the beginning when post offices were established in so many of our small areas at the beginning of this century and a few years later. At that time what was the method of transport in the Australian community? It was by push bike or horse. One might readily refer to this period as the 'horse and buggy days'. What was the condition of roads in Australia at that point of time? It was necessary to serve a small community with a post office because it was virtually impossible, due to the condition of the roads and the method of transport, for people to move into the larger and more populated areas. 
At that time communities were small. But what is the situation today? Is it still the horse and buggy days? Are the roads still in the condition that they were in in those days or are people readily able to move into areas where there are large shopping complexes to cope with people's requirements instead of depending upon the one local store or at the very best, perhaps, two or three local stores? This is part of the changing scene which makes it unnecessary in my view to serve a small community with a post office. I appreciate the social circumstances referred to but it is not the responsibility of the Post Office to provide somebody to look after people's income tax returns. It is not the responsibility of the Post Office to provide a meeting place for local people who want to have a chat or a chin wag at any time they choose. 1 say that the changes which have taken place within the community have justified a new approach to be adopted by the Post Office in its administration of postal services. 
How do we move into the closing of a post office? It is not done willy-nilly. There is a district postal manager in every postal district throughout Australia. The district postal manager is charged with a deliberate responsibility to determine whether a post office should be closed, whether a new one should be established as a non-official post office, whether a non-official post office should become official or whether there should be a reduction in the status of an office. I have already indicated that 1,000 post offices have closed in 4i years. I have been the Postmaster-General for over 8 years and I have had very few complaints from local communities because a post office has been closed. In many cases these post offices have been a post office cumtelephone exchange and the person who had to look after the post office was also the telephone office keeper when it was a manual exchange. We have had another change with the introduction of automatic telephone exchanges and so the person who had a double job has been left only with the post office. 
I do not accept the figures given by the honourable member for Macarthur in relation to the Beaumont Post Office. I inform the House that approximately $1,000 a year has been lost in respect of each one of the post offices which have been closed. We accept through the district postal manager a report as to what should happen about postal services in small areas. The district postal manager goes in to these communities and meets the local people. He informs them that instead of their having to come to the post office to pick up their mail it will be delivered to them and the residents in general accept this situation as being more convenient to them than collecting their mail at the post office. I have already said that 1,000 post offices have been closed in 4i years and that the average loss for each has been $1,000 a year. Perhaps it docs not matter to members of the Opposition or to the honourable member for Macarthur that Sim per annum could be lost to the postal services if those 1,000 post offices were to be kept open. It is not my responsibility nor is it the responsibility of the Post Office to maintain that sort of loss situation throughout the community. 
So far, we have only heard of those post offices that have been closed. There has been no mention of the recommendation by district postal managers that 175 post offices should be opened over the same period of  4i  years. I refer to new post offices in new suburban areas and new country areas which have expanded. Townsville is an excellent illustration of the establishment of new post offices. This is what is going on. There is a plus sign as well as a minus sign in relation to this matter. I believe that there is no justification for having this matter of public importance before us today. But I have not dealt with the whole of the wording used in proposing this discussion. The concluding words read: 
. until a parliamentary committee examines the whole question. 
That is a very interesting phrase - 'the whole question'. Where does a parliamentary committee start in relation to the whole question? Does it really mean that the whole question concerns the annual closure of 200 post offices and that the parliamentary committee would make a judgment after visiting every one of these small communities so as to make an analysis of the situation? I point out to honourable members that on any occasion on which I have received a deputation, including the one by the honourable member for Macarthur in regard to the Beaumont Post Office, 1 have had in front of me the business transactions covering the last 3 years of the post office in question and I have provided the information to the deputation. 
Let me give the House an illustration of what takes place in some of these post offices. I do not accept the figures which were given other than those that have flowed from my own Department. One example is a post office which had total receipts of $79 for 12 months wilh a total running cost of $1,361. As a substitution, the Post Office was able to provide a mail deliver)' service at a cost of S200 per annum. What is the judgment of the House in relation to that sort of situation? Another example is a post office with an income of $300 and a running cost of $2,014. A mail service can be provided at a cost of $300 per annum. What is the judgment of the House on this discussion of a matter of public importance? What would be the advice of a parliamentary committee if it were to make an investigation? Would it say that the Post Office must accept a liability of $1,000 or $1,500 a year merely to serve a community of 30 or 40 people who, generally speaking, find it more convenient to travel to a larger place to carry out their postal business? 
I have not the figures for Beaumont in front of me but the loss for Beaumont is over $1,000 a year. I will not be more precise than that. There is no justification for the action suggested in this discussion of a matter of public importance. There is no justification for setting up a committee of this House to examine this matter, f believe that the competency of those who work in the Postmaster-General's Department is such that we can rely on the advice which they give in relation to this matter. I am sorry that no other speaker from (his side of the House will have an opportunity to reply to subsequent speakers but I am sure that anything they say will be judged within the context of what I have said to the House against the idea of opposing what the Department is doing at the present time. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill,  Mr Speaker,  is to amend the Broadcasting and Television Act to alter the period for which commercial broadcasting and television station licences are now renewed; to make certain changes relating to the ownership and control provisions in regard to commercial broadcasting and television stations; and to make some adjustments to the provisions relating to the broadcasting or televising of political and current affairs material. Dealing first with the renewal of licences for commercial broadcasting and television stations, section 84 of the Act at present provides that such licences shall be granted for an initial period of 5 years and for periods of one year thereafter. There is no provision for renewals for other than one year periods. 
It is now proposed to amend section 84 of the Act to provide that a licence may be renewed for a period of not less than 6 months or more than 3 years, on the basis that the normal licence period will be 3 years instead of one year after the initial introductory period for the new provisions has passed. With the steady increase in the number of commercial stations operating in the Commonwealth - there are 117 broadcasting and 48 television stations now established - it has become clear that the retention of a yearly renewal period has become burdensome and that, in fact, no real advantages accrue from the procedure. Under the Act, as it now stands, the Australian Broadcasting Control Board is required to make a report and recommendation to the Minister in respect of each application for the renewal of a licence. The position has, however, now been reached where the Board would need to expand its staff considerably if the comprehensive technical aspects and other investigations, upon which its reports are based, are to continue on an annual basis. As 1 have said, this does not seem to be justified in the light of present day conditions. 
A renewal period of up to 3 years will also enable action to be taken on the first renewal of licences after the amendment of the law to vary licence renewal periods so as to distribute the work load, not only of the Control Board but also of the licensees concerned, more evenly over the 3 year period, bearing in mind particularly that it will permit all licences held by one group of interests to be considered together as a total operation. At present, the position is that in the case of a company holding licences for a number of stations which expire on different dates, the Board is faced with the unsatisfactory situation of preparing separate renewal reports in the case of each licence. Under the amended provisions, it will be possible to vary the period of the renewal of the licences in question so that they expire on the same date, thus permitting a single report to be furnished to the Minister with respect to the total operations of the group. This procedure will be particularly relevant to the operation of television stations and associated translator - relay - stations. 
I might say that the position with respect to the renewal of licences in overseas countries is that in the United States the licensing authority may now renew licences for a period of up to 3 years, whilst in Canada licences may be renewed for up to 5 years. Honourable members will, of course, be aware that the Act provides for the suspension and revocation of licences in specified circumstances. Provision therefore exists for special action to be taken in respect of a licence should the occasion arise and this is not affected by. the proposal to provide for a longer licence renewal period. 
Turning now to the provisions of the Act relating to the ownership and control of commercial broadcasting and television stations, some difficulties have been experienced by the Control Board in its administration of one particular aspect of these provisions. Section 92 of the Act, which deals with limitations on interests in commercial television stations, provides that a person may not have a prescribed interest, as defined, in more than 2 commerical television station licences. However, protection is afforded to persons or companies having interests in excess of those permitted, provided such interests were held before 17th December 1964, which was the date on which I announced the Government's intention to amend the legislation. Under the present law this protection is afforded, however, on the condition that the protected interests are not increased and tha* there is no change in the circumstances in which such interests are held. In addition, should any reduction in these interests occur, there can be no subsequent recapture of the interests previously disposed of. 
The legal position is, therefore, that any change in the circumstances under which interests are held, even though the amount of the interests does not change, leads to a loss of the protection afforded by section 92(3). A parallel situation applies in regard to section 90c dealing with broadcasting station licences. For example, if a company having such protected interests desires that such interests be held by, say, a wholly-owned subsidiary, such a change could not be effected without loss of the protection. In addition, because of the far reaching provisions of the Act, which require, inter alia, the tracing down of interests through interpolated companies and that indirect shareholding relationships must be taken into account, it is possible for a person having protected interests to be inadvertently placed in contravention of the Act through no fault of his own and no action on his part. Even though the increased interest indirectly attributable to a protected person may be extremely small and could .be remedied as to quantum by the sale of possibly a single share of his direct holding, it is not possible for such a person to correct the situation in this manner because of the present prohibition on changing the circumstances in which the interests are held. The only alternative under the present law could be the sale of substantial investments in companies through which indirect interests are held and through which the inadvertent contravention has occurred. 
This rather complex matter has been most carefully examined by officers of the Attorney-General's Department and by Parliamentary Counsel in consultation with the Board, and I am satisfied that the proposed amendment will not lead to any loopholes in the Act. I was most anxious that no weaknesses should be created in the present legislation which has been most effective in enforcing the Government's longstanding policy with respect to the ownership and control of commercial television stations. The Government feels that the intention of the law can be fully achieved by providing that a person shall not lose his protection as a result of a change in the manner in which such interests are held, providing the quantum of such interests is not increased. 
The opportunity has also been taken to remedy a possible weakness in section 92(3) (c) of the Act relating to television licences and section 90c of the Act relating to broadcasting licences to ensure that these provisions, which give some protection to new issues with respect to shareholding interests held prior to the prescribed date, do not extend further than was intended. In relation to the broadcasting and televising of addresses or statements of a political and current affairs nature, section 117(4) provides that where the address or statement is in excess of a hundred words, the name of the  speaker  and, the author of an address or statement, where appropriate, shall be announced both before and after the address or statement. lt has been represented that this provision has taken up a considerable amount of time in a one-minute political announcement, and in response to requests from all parties, and from licensees, it is now proposed that section 117(4) be amended to provide that the announcement need be made only after the address or statement. To ensure that the provisions of section 117(5) regarding the keeping of a record of the name and address of the author of such statements shall be fully effective, it is also proposed to amend the section to provide that in response to a written request to the Australian Broadcasting Commission or the licensee concerned, any person may be provided with the name, address and occupation of the author, and of the  speaker  if he is not the author. The existing provisions require only that the Control Board may obtain a copy of the information. It seems clearly equitable that any person should be able to obtain details of the information in question. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Stewart)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows. 
No. 
Dampier, Exmouth, Fitzroy Crossing, Halls Creek, Kununurra, Marble Bar, Newman, Onslow, Paraburdoo, Roebourne, Tom Price, and Wittenoom. 
Wherever possible delivery of a telegram is effected by telephone and a confirmatory copy posted. If this method is not possible hut the area is served by a mail contractor, telegrams arriving up to the time of the mailman's departure from the post office are delivered by him. In cases where such a service is non-existent, a card notifying that a telegram is on hand is placed either in the addressee's private letter receiver at the post office or the poste restante box. At s-)me offices the listing of names on the notice board is a further means of indicating that telegrams await collection. 
A special arrangement at company-owned towns is for telegrams of an urgent nature to be passed to the Company Supervisor or his delegate in the town so that delivery may be expedited where this is possible. 
Al Dampier, Newman and Tom Price, telegram delivery officers are employed part-time and provide an additional measure of service during the periods they are available - week day afternoons and Saturday morning. 
Subject to recruitment difficulties being overcome, the introduction of a full-time telegram delivery service is possible during the period 1972- 73 at Dampier and Newman. Similar arrangements could be provided in 1973-74 at Paraburdoo and Tom Price depending also upon the availability of labour. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
New South Wales 1; Western Australia 5; Other States nil. 
Although no firm plans have been made to discontinue deliveries at any other centres, the services operating at one small centre in New South Wales and two in Western Australia are under consideration. 
No. They were discontinued because of difficulties in recruiting suitable delivery staff and because the number of households is insufficient to warrant a letter delivery service. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Category A registered publications are confined to country newspapers and periodicals and newspapers and periodicals published by religious, charitable and welfare organisations and by educational, scientific or technical organisations having the dissemination of knowledge as their principal object. Other registered newspapers and periodicals are placed in Category B or Category C. 
The special concession rate of postage for Category A publications is as follows: - 
Rate to 29th February, 1972- 6c per 12oz of aggregate weight of articles subject to a minimum charge for each article of1c whichever is the greater. 
Rate from 1st March, 1972- 7c per 12oz of aggregate weight of articles subject to a minimum charge for each article of1c whichever is the greater. 
The official journal of the New South Wales Federation of Parents and Citizens Associations was accorded Category B classification. A number of representations were subsequently made by the Federation and on its behalf for the journal to be classified as Category A. My Department was unable to agree to so classify the journal ofthe Federation because if is not regarded for the purpose of postal registration as an educational organisation. 
The publications of parents organisations associated with (a) public schools and (b) church schools are similarly not eligible for Category A registration. 
At the presenttime there are approximately 7500 registered newspapers and periodicals. When the registers were first divided into Categories A and B in 1970, all the publications on the registers were given provisional classifications by the Post Office and the proprietors, printers or publishers were given an opportunity to appealto the appropriate State Director against the classification. In a number of cases, when the appeal was refused, further appeals were made either to the Director General or to myself. As a result, some classifications were changed while others were not. Considering the number of publications involved it would place a very considerable workload upon the Post Office to meet the honourable member's request for specific details about individual applications. 
The number of Category A publications currently onthe registers is a little more than half the total number of registered publications. Consequently, the publishing organisations of more than 3800 publications can be regarded as successfully obtaining the Category A concession either by Post Office decision at the time the Category A classification was introduced on 1st October 1970, or subsequently. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Collie-Cardiff Non-official Post Office closed on the 20th December 1971. It is intended to close the Wellington Mills Non-official Post Office also but a firm date has not yet been set. It is the usual practice to review the need to retain Post Offices in small country centres when the Postmaster resigns, automatic telephone working is introduced, or some other significant change takes place. Where suitable alternative mail delivery arrangements can be made and little use is being made of the counter services it is often unnecessary to keep the post office open. This situation could apply at a few of the other smaller settlements in the Electorate of Forrest during 1971-72. 
It is not intended at this stage to close or reclassify any official post offices as non-official in the Electoral Division of Forrest during 1971-72. 
Notes on the News'  (Question No. 4287) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
No. I refer the honourable member to my answer to Question No. 3151 (Hansard pages 1594-1596). Out of a total of 565 'Notes on the News' sessions presented in 1969, 1970 and 1971,  Dr Emery  Bares was engaged 22 times,  Mr I.  Bennetts 8 times,  Mr D.  J. M. Jackson 28 times and  Mr J.  D. Pringle 5 times. 
See answer to No. 2. 
No. The engagement of speakers for 'Notes on the News' is a matter for the ABC to determine. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Tentatively programmed for first half of 1974. 
Tentative programming envisages the provision of STD facilities at Albany in mid-1973, at  Mr Barker  during the first half of 1974 and at Esperance in mid- 1974. 
Albany and Mt Barker were previously programmed for connection to the STD network in late 1972 or early 1973 but, because of delays associated with the manufacture of the special equipment, the works programme has had to he re-appraised. The provision of STD facilities at Esperance has also been re-scheduled because of unavoidable delays in arranging delivery of essential equipment from manufacturers. 10157/72-  R~  Jil] 
Post Offices: Coober Pedy and Andamooka  (Question No. 4894)  Mr Wallis  asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Does his Department intend to establish official post offices at the opal mining townships of Coober Pedy and Andamooka in South Australia? 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There are no immediate plans to change these post offices to official working. Both offices are operating under non-official control at present and are giving a satisfactory service to our customers in the areas concerned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Charges for trunk calls by STD are recorded by an appropriate number of units on the subscribers meter which is also used to record the number of local calls made. Therefore, it is not possible to identify all trunk revenue but it is estimated to amount to between 35 and 40 per cent of the total revenue for the telephone service. 
Similarly, on the cost side much of the equipment is common to both local and trunk calls, consequently there is no clear division of costs. However, ft is estimated that the cost of the trunk network would be between 30 and 35 per cent of the cost of the telephone system. 
The level of uniform charge that would be necessary will not be known until a study being made by the Post Office is completed. 
When I made my statement at the end of last year giving a programme for the completion of stage 7 of television it was certainly the intention of the Government that that should be completed within the time that I mentioned in my statement. I think it must be appreciated that when we are dependent upon supplies of electronic equipment, particularly from overseas, a written guarantee cannot be given that this equipment will be supplied on the stated dates. Consequently, I cannot give a written guarantee that the dates that I gave will, in fact, be the dates of commencement of those additional 33 stations. 
I checked and rechecked with my Department before the statement was made and I am assured that without unforeseen circumstances arising those dates will be adhered to. I remind the House that the completion of the 7th stage will give 98 per cent of the Australian public the opportunity to view television. I give the House and the community the assurance that the completion of the 7th stage, or even further advancement in terms of extension of national services to the people of this country, will not be interfered with by the introduction of colour television on 1st March 1975. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The areas mentioned by the honourable member are serviced by installation teams covering larger area or activity groupings, and employ ees are frequently redeployed between exchanges within these groups to meet fluctuations in telephone demand. The average number of staff engaged on installation activities in exchange groupings has therefore been supplied. 
The telephone installation for these exchange areas is divided between the Metropolitan area of Brisbane, in which 19 employees serve the areas of Bulimba, Capalaba, Camp Hill, Coorparoo, Mount Gravatt and Eight Mile Plains, and the Outer Metropolitan Area where 6 staff serve Cleveland, Redland Bay, Wellington Point and Wynnum. The staff employed on the installation of underground cables are subdivided into local engineering groupings, the staff presently; employed being, Cooparoo, Camp Hill and Bulimba area, 18; Cleveland, Capalaba, Redland Bay and Wellington Point, 7; Mount Gravatt and Eight Mile Plains, 12; and Wynnum 5. In addition specialist teams of employees are presently engaged on major underground cable projects at Capalaba, Mount Gravatt and Wynnum (7 employees each) and Bulimba (12 employees)'. 
New telephone exchange equipment installation in these exchange areas is carried out by a team of 14 specialists, who also serve the whole of the Brisbane metropolitan and outer metropolitan areas. 
The telephone installation staff servicing the Brisbane metropolitan exchanges listed in (1) above numbered 18 in 1969-70 and 19 in 1970-71, whilst in both previous years 6 employees installed telephones in the outer metropolitan exchange areas referred to in (1). 
The staff employed on the installation of underground cables in both 1969-70 and 1970-71 was: 
Coorparoo, Camp Hill and Bulimba area, 18; 
Cleveland, Capalaba, Redland Bay and Wellington Point area, 7; 
Mount Gravatt and Eight Mile Plains area, 12; Wynnum, 5. 
The installation of telephone exchanges iu the Brisbane area was carried out by a staff of 30 in 1969-70 and 1970-71. 
Variations in the pattern of demand for new services render it difficult to predict future employment levels in specific exchange areas.It is known however, that 16 employees, presently engaged in other activities, will be redeployed to meet exchange installation programmes during the balance of this financial year. This action will result in the exchange installation team being restored to 30, the level maintained over the previous 2 years. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) Applications received 1.11.70 to 31.10.71 (details of applications are recorded only in respect of telephone zones and not under individual exchanges in each zone). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The number of Federal Ministers and Members was: 
in the last three months: 
Country Party 4; 
Liberal Party 3; 
Australian Labor Party 3; 
in the last six months: 
Country Party 4; 
Liberal Party 4; 
Australian Labor Party 4; 
in the last twelve months: 
Country Party 4; 
Liberal Party 5; 
Australian Labor Party 5. 
The names were Rt Hon. D.  J.  Anthony, L. H. Barnard, G. W. A. Duthie, The  Hon.  J. M. Fraser. A. J. Grassby,  Hon.  P. R. Lynch, Rt  Hon.  W. McMahon,  Hon.  P. Nixon,  Dr R.  A. Patterson,  Hon.  I. M. Sinclair,  Hon.  B. M. Snedden, A. A. Street, Sen. J. J. Webster, E. G. Whitlam. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) Applications received 1.11.70 to 31.10.71 for Brisbane zone  -  28,537 (details of applications are recorded only in respect of the Brisbane telephone zone and not under indiviual exchanges in the zone). 
(b) Installations completed Brisbane zone 1.11.70 to 31.10.71 are as follows: 
(c) Apart from those applications on which work was proceeding to provide service, there were 601 deferred applications on hand at 16.11.71 in the Brisbane telephone zone, to be provided as follows: 
Every effort is made to provide service to applicants with the least delay possible and in the Brisbane telephone zone more than 95 per cent of all applicants are provided with service within 3 months. 
Those not satisfied within this time have been delayed pending the provision of external plant and/or exchange equipment. In some cases considerable works will be needed to satisfy the outstanding applications and these will be put in hand as resources can be made available. For example, relief programmes at Apsley, Eight Mile Plains and Mitchelton to cater for waiting and future applicants will involve expenditure  of  $140,000, $120,000 and $144,000 respectively. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have no evidence to this effect particularly since the programme is not designed to be such a forum. 
The same policy as it follows in all its programmes with topical content, i.e. to present a balance of views on issues of concern to the community. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have no evidence to this effect particularly since the programme is not designed to be such a forum. 
The same policy as it follows in all its programmes with topical content, i.e. to present a balance of views on issues of concern to the community. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is  as  follows: 
It is not possible  to  provide transmitters for both ABC Radio Networks in country areas as the additional frequencies required are not available. The present ABC regional service in Queensland and other States, comprises programmes drawn from both the networks currently available in the cities. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
(a) During January-March 1970. 
March 1970. 
November 1970. 
$19,029. 
Yes. The music was composed by  Mr Richard  Connolly who was paid a fee of $425. 
(a) John Power, 
John Power. 
The film was made as a biographical study of a man who was involved in important national and international events of the recent past. 
Yes. 
Yes, from  Mrs Evatt. 
The ABC has not received any such request. 
No. The producer alone visited the United Kingdom and France. 
The film has now been shown. 
No. 
The film was telecast from all ABC stations throughout Australia on Monday, 14th February 1972. Its distribution is a matter for the ABC to arrange. 
 Mr Speaker,  may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the Broadcasting Stations Licence Fees Bill and the Television Stations Licence Fees Bill as they are related measures. Separate questions may, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest, therefore,  Mr Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the 3 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
 It seems to me that we have a peculiar amendment before us. The latter part of the amendment deals with only one matter, that is, a committee which it is suggested should inquire into and report upon the conditions under which television and broadcasting station licences are granted and renewed. It seems to me perhaps appropriate that one should first of all remind the House of what is contained in the Bill itself. The first thing that is contained in the Bill is a provision for licences to be renewed not for one year as provided in the Act at the present time but for a period of not less than 6 months nor more than 3 years. It has been obvious to me from that which has been said in the debate this evening that not a great deal of concentration has been given to the provisions of the Bill. 
I indicated In my second reading speech why it was believed that the provision relating to the period of renewal was necessary. Firstly, the Australian Broadcasting Control Board, which has the responsibility of making inquiries and recommending to the Minister renewals of licences and which also makes recommendations in relation to initial licences, has a fairly substantial job on. its plate. Honourable members perhaps do not appreciate that no fewer than approximately 160 television and broadcasting licences come up for consideration of renewal each year on a yearly basis. So the suggestion of a 3-year licence fee was to distribute this work more evenly and to enable the Board to concentrate on other important matters which it has before it constantly. One may say: That is all right as to the 3 years. What about the 6 months?' Of course there has to be an interregnum. We have to do some work to try to bring the renewal of licences for groups of stations together at the one time. As there are groups which control 6 or 8 broadcasting stations or a number of television stations surely it is desirable that those groups be looked at by the Board at one time instead of having one station in the group considered in March, another in September and this process being followed through the 3-year period. It seems to me that to bring consideration or these groups together and to make the work of the Board satisfactory - I emphasise the word - for the benefit of the community and the Parliament, first of all, it is desirable that there be a spread of work and, secondly, it is necessary to have this 6 months to 3 years provision to enable the groupings to be made and dealt with in the future satisfactorily. The amendment really says that the Bill should go to a select committee. The amendment has nothing to do with the 3-year aspect. It is interesting to note that there is already in existence an appropriate Senate committee. The mover for the establishment of this Committee was the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Murphy).  While that committee deals with a number of matters its terms of reference specifically mention that it is to inquire into all aspects of television and broadcasting, including the Australian content of television programmes. Is it suggested - apparently it is 
It is suggested that we have a joint committee representing both Houses to deal with the provisions of the Bill on the terms of renewal or granting of licences, lt seems to me to be a strange suggestion which the Opposition has put before us. Why should not this become part of the inquiry of the present Senate committee? In fact, this is in the terms of reference of that committee. One would expect us to avoid duplication in the taking of evidence. The present Senate committee has already been to the head offices of the Broadcasting Control Board in Melbourne to investgate the basis on which the Board makes investigations concerning the renewal of licences or the granting of them. Should we have a committee representative of both the Senate and the House of Representatives to do almost the same thing? I do not understand this sort of approach from the Opposition. It seems to me that the Opposition is only trying a delaying tactic. This could be inferred from the remarks of the honourable member for Lang when he first spoke some highfalutin nonsense: 'In a few months we will be the Government and therefore wc will take charge of this Bill. We will take charge of this Act and everything in the. garden will be lovely'. 
I pass on to the second section of this Bill which relates to the situation which has developed concerning those whose interests were frozen by the 1965 legislation in terms of television, and I think the 1969 legislation in terms of broadcasting. When I introduced the 1965 legislation I assured the House then - and I say it again now - that I had endeavoured to make that legislation so tight that those who were benefiting from the freezing provisions could not find an easy way to increase their holdings. This point has been proven. We have often seen legislation brought into this House only to find that it is inadequate to do the things which we had hoped would be done, but that legislation was the exact reverse. It was made so tight in 1965 that in fact hindrance has been created 

 Television Bill 449 
One company has control of the maximum number of braodcasting stations. For certain reasons the Broadcasting and Television Act required the company to amend its articles of association. It is a very old established company, lt did not want to alter its articles of association and so it went to the Board with a suggestion that it might form a holding company and that the shares which it held in the broadcasting stations might be transferred to the holding company. There was no addition to the company's shareholding; no reduction in its shareholding and no alteration or variation whatever. For some reason the company did not want to alter its articles of association. It merely wanted to create a holding company to look after these particular interests. The legislation of 1969 was so tight - and it was similar to the 1965 legislation in relation to television - that it could not be done. 
The honourable member for Capricornia may say that it is a good idea but I notice that his name is not on the list to speak in this debate to justify the stupid remark which he has made by way of interjection. That is one situation which we find. The second one I want to mention may be difficult to understand. Let me put it on this basis: Company A has a small shareholding interest in company B. I am speaking about television. Company A also has a large shareholding interest in company C. Company B purchases some shares also in company C. It so happens that company C holds a large number of shares in company O. Company A holds shares in company D, and it did hold them in December 1964, which gave it a protection interest. The purchase by company B of some shares in company C meant (he carrying through of that additional interest and this meant that it had lost the right to freezing. Do you know what difference it made in terms of the shareholding? There was no control  1  March 1972 because it was only a small interest in the company. It meant a difference of .0002 per cent. 
Surely honourable members opposite are not going to suggest to me that the .0002 per cent is going to make a substantial difference in terms of the interest that company holds in company C. It would in fact mean that the company would have to sell one share in company D. But it could not sell one share in company D because it was protected. That was an area of protection in 1965. The Act says that there cannot be any change in circumstances. To sell one share would be a change in circumstances. In this situation to correct the position the company must sell 417,000 shares. Surely honourable members opposite are not going to suggest to me that the 1965 legislation applied to that situation is reasonable. This is what the Bill proposes to correct, at least from the point of view of those companies which had a protected interest. 
I had no hesitation in bringing this Bill before the Parliament not to protect people but to adjust an anomaly. If it is believed by the honourable member for Lang - he mentioned this - that our only concern through our legislation is protection, let me remind him that 3 of the companies that were protected by the 1965 legislation have of their own free will lost by selling shares the protection which they had gained. He suggests, of course, that these are great monopoly interests which have no interest on behalf of the community. This is the sort of problem with which one is faced. One could give illustrations of portfolio investment. Many people have portfolio investments. They exist among members of the Australian Labor Party as well as among other people in the community. If a company which is protected in terms of the legislation were to buy shares in a company on the stockmarket, not knowing whether in fact that particular company had interests in television, it could be caught under the legislation, even to the minimum degree to which I have referred in these 2 particular cases. So, I suggest that there is no justification whatever for members of the Opposition telling us that they want the whole of this Bill, including the 3-year renewal period and this particular matter, referred to a special select committee of both Houses to deal with it. 
The third matter which is dealt with in the Bill relates to election telecasting or broadcasting and there is no objection to that. For the benefit of honourable members who were not present when the second reading speech was made, I remind the House that, in the case of announcements of 100 words or less, it is necessary to identify the author and the  speaker  at the end of the announcement. If the announcement is in excess of 100 words, it is necessary to have the identification at the beginning as well as at the end and the adjustment in this Bill is merely to require identification at the end in all cases where the announcement exceeds 100 words. I had the experience of a telecast of 5 minutes which, because of the announcement at the beginning and the end, left me with only 4 minutes 20 seconds. So, to all honourable members who will be involved in the next election, I can say that they will be able to have an extra 20 seconds in a 5-minute telecast as a result of this amendment. 
Other matters have been referred to in this debate. I suggest that there is no justification for the amendment which has been put before the House tonight in relation to the second reading of the Bill. There are other matters to which I will refer later. They concern amendments which will be moved at the Committee stage, but I have no desire to speak of them at the moment because of the time factor. Perhaps in the 2 or 3 minutes remaining to me I can deal with one or two matters which were referred to by the honourable member for Lang. I think it is fair to say that he made substantial criticism in terms of the Board's reporting to Parliament in its annual report. How many times has the honourable member for Lang spoken to the  chairman  of the Board? How many times has he spoken to a Board member? How many times has he rung the Board or written to the Board for information? How many times has he had any discussion with an officer of the Board? 
The honourable member says quite honestly that he has not had any communication with the Board, yet he is prepared to come into the House and criticise the Board for giving insufficient information. It seems to me that if one is to criticise the Board at least one should put oneself in the position of setting down some criteria which should guide the Board so that it can help whoever is a critic in the future. I think that those who might be listening or who might read Hansard will- 
They are not listening over the air, but people are listening nevertheless. I think that they would come to a conclusion. The person who never has sought to make inquiry other than to read the Board's report is hardly in a position to criticise the Board for inadequacy if he believes that there are inadequacies. I will leave other matters to the Committee stage when I hope to have a good deal to say. 
 I will not delay the House for much longer but I would like to acknowledge I think I did so earlier but I do it again the comments of the honourable members for Franklin  (Mr Sherry),  La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  and Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron).  1 indicate to them that copies of their remarks will go to the appropriate quarter and give my assurance to push as hard as I can for some real consideration of the suggestion which is put up in this proposed new clause. 
Proposed new clause negatived. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Well, I think I have only to look at members of the Opposition to find a few when we are discussing television and broadcasting, because the Government and the Opposition have views which are poles apart in this field. 
The honourable gentleman may have a little more intelligence than his colleagues. Not only does the Board monitor programmes and send officers to visit the stations; it also is available at any time to have discussions with anybody. Many complaints which come to me as Postmaster-General I pass on to the Board and replies are given by the. Board in relation to these specific matters. Groups see the Board at quite frequent intervals. It does not matter whether they are groups from trade unions associated with the total industry, from the Commercial Telecasters Federation or from the. Commercial Broadcasters Federation, there are regular conferences between the Board and these people, each putting to the other their point of view in relation to particular matters. I cannot believe that a public inquiry into those who have, a particular interest in the operating of broadcasting and television would serve any purpose. 
I mentioned last night, and apparently it has been accepted, that we should have 3- year licensing. However, if the Board is to conduct a public inquiry, let us consider some of the factors which will arise. Where is the inquiry to be held? Is it to be held in Melbourne? Are the people from Charleville to go to Melbourne for this public inquiry, or is the Board to go to Charleville? I mentioned last year that there would be public inquiries in relation to over 50 stations per annum, which is an average of one a week. If the Board must visit the local area at the time, of application for licence renewal, as it now does at the time of an initial licence issue, a good deal of time will be taken up unnecessarily by the Board in visiting local areas in our widespread community. I believe it would become impractical unless we were to add substantially to the number of Board members and to the staff of the. Broadcasting Control Board. If the number of members were doubled, the Board could be divided into, say, 2 boards which could function simultaneously. If the staff were increased people would be available to service these 2 sections. If 3-year licensing were, not accepted and it was on an annual basis, as the Act now provides, it would be necessary to increase further the number of Board members and staff. But would the cost be justified? Do members of the Opposition have no regard for the costs of maintaining these operations and can they not make an assessment between the costs and the virtue or the value that is obtained from the extra expenditure I say to the Committee, as I say to the Australian community, that I do not believe there is any justification for increasing the number of Board members or the staff of the Broadcasting Control Board and, therefore, the cost to the community of maintaining this organisation. On this ground I believe that the amendment must fall. 
Briefly, these are the reasons why the Government will not accept the amendment which has been moved by the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart).  We believe that what now happens in terms of the Board's consideration prior to a licence renewal and prior to a recommendation to the Government or to the Minister in relation to renewal is adequate and it is a strange thing- 
Approximately 160 in the total area of television and broadcasting. That is a fair number of renewal applications and I receive detailed reports on each of the matter which 1 have, been discussing. I do not believe that there is a competency amongst the general public nor, I might add, would there be an interest, to go before the Board in a public inquiry and make submissions which could affect the rejection or the acceptance of the renewal, as the case might be. 
I would not like to be held to this, but I do not know whether there has ever been a rejection or whether there has been only one over the period. Do not let us overlook the fact when the Opposition criticises from the Opposition benches that for many years it had control of this Act and its operation, not in relation to television but certainly in relation to radio and broadcasting, and it did not dawn on the Opposition then that there should be anything more than an annual renewal of licences. It did not dawn on the Opposition then that there should be an open inquiry in relation to renewals. What I would like, rather than merely looking at what I would call the broad unstated principles on which the Opposition is submitting this amendment, is to be told specific things in which we can see justification for what is being sought. I suggest that that has not been done this afternoon and is again a reason why the Government is not prepared to accept the amendment that has been moved. 
I will not take very much time in reply. I do not know whether the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Sherry)  asked his question because he knew it was so difficult to answer and was therefore seeking to embarrass. The Board's report does not give statistics in relation to the number of complaints that are received from time to time, but the Board's report does give an indication of the real trouble spots. I draw his attention to paragraph 564 on page 133 of the Board's report for the year ended 30th June 1971. It contains some comments in relation to Station TEN Sydney and stations ATV and HSV Melbourne.. He will also see on page 118 a tabulation in relation to Australian content and a record of whether the stations have met the 50 per cent requirement. Some stations have not. Many have failed by a very small margin. Nevertheless, they are tabulated. In paragraph 360 on page 84 he will see further comments in relation to HSV Melbourne. 
I am sorry I cannot give him an answer in any more depth. I suggest that he might discuss it with the staff of the Board, although 1 do not believe that they would have a statistical tabulation of the number of complaints received. 
Of course the Board is frequently getting complaints. I frequently get complaints from people. Some go to the Board, some go to the Australian Broadcasting Commission. Of course the community has differing views about programmes and advertising content. The majority of people do not take out a stopwatch and test the actual advertising time. I must confess that after watching a commercial station for an hour or  i  hours the advertising time seems to become much greater than the programme time. We are very often under a misapprehension about it. 
The honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  raised the question of the number of stations. The number of licences is 162; 45 are television stations and 117 are broadcasting stations. There are slight variations in some of these figures. In one case a licence has been issued but the station is not yet on air. I appreciate that there is a figure of 165 but it includes 3 stations which are not yet on air or may be temporarily off air. 1 do not think there is need to continue other than to say in reply to the last comment of the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart)  who pointed out that there would be very few complaints and therefore very few hearings, that it would seem that the present Act is adequate. 
Complaints can be made to me or to the Board. If we believe that there is justification for a public hearing - in other words, that the complaint is sufficiently serious - we can ask for a public hearing to be held by the Board. It is not necessary to go through the mechanics of a public hearing for 162 stations. It may be necessary only in relation to 2 or 3 stations. I suggest that the judgment of the Board is reflected in its performance over a period of very many years. On behalf of those people who preceded me as Postmaster-General, and myself, I say that nobody could accuse us fairly of not acting in the interests of the general public in relation to this matter. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 5 to 8 - by leave - taken together. 
It is interesting to hear the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart)  endeavouring to explain my explanation of last night. Of course, it is very easy to pick up a few words from my speech and say 'There is the story'. Let me go back a little further in relation to this matter. It was I who, realising that the control of television was being accumulated in the hands of a few, introduced into the Parliament in 1965 amendments to the Broadcasting and Television Act to correct this situation and to encourage the diversification of television ownership. So I do not think the honourable member for Lang can criticise me in relation to judgments which I made or actions which I have taken. I am one of the most unpopular persons in the eyes of these substantial companies because I introduced a few crippling provisions into the Act. Again, in 1969 I took the same action in regard to broadcasting stations. Those provisions have stood the test of time. 
As I mentioned last night, it was not a situation, as applies in much of our legislation, that we did not go far enough and further amendments were needed to tighten it a little more. In the case of this legislation, it was made very tight and it was intended to be tight because I and the Government had no desire, that people should be able to get out the back door. We wanted the doors closed. The legislation was made so tight that that was impossible. But in the history of operation of the Act a few small things have happened outside the control of those who received protection in 1965 in the case of television, or in 1969 in the. case of broadcasting, which creates an embarrassment for them. Last night, I gave the illustration of a company. 1 will not go through the matter again in detail because it is necessary to use the names of 5 companies to explain the position. But a company which had a small interest in one company found that, in fact, that company in which it had the small interest had bought shares in another television company in which the first company already had shares. So that the enormity of increase in terms of holding can be tested there is a calculation which means that every interest in every shareholding must be accounted for. The Act refers to a change in circumstances. Without those words in the Act the company would have been required to sell only one share. But because the sale of one share, altered the circumstances, it became necessary for the company to sell approximately 417,000 shares. 1 introduced the legislation in 1965 and, in fact, wanted it tight at that point of time. Surely the Opposition will not tell me that I am getting on side with the big companies in encouraging them to obtain increases - perhaps substantial increases - in television ownership in Australia. It is just so much nonsense and it is not acceptable. That is the last thing I would do in relation to television or radio. If I had not acted quickly, radio would have been in a similar situation. I did not do this because of any complaint from the Opposition. I did it because I knew what was happening and regarded it as my responsibility to take action. But I did not need any prompting to do it. So I do not think the bone can be pointed at me in relation to my acceptance of responsibility to control the ownership of television or radio in Australia. I could give other illustrations in relation to this matter. I have no desire to weary the Committee. But I do not understand how what the Government has done in the field of social services can be compared to what has happened in regard to the ownership of radio and television stations. I do not think the honourable member for Lang has been here long enough to make such a comparison. The Government has introduced the merged means test, extended the means test and introduced increases in pension rates. Yet the honourable member suggests that the Government has never done anything. In my view it is not worth more than merely mentioning the incongruity of the honourable member's suggestion that these. 2 matters are related. I acknowledge that the Opposition will oppose this part of the legislation and 1 am sure that Government supporters will accept the proposition which I am putting forward. 
I can give more than lip service to the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Sherry)  in relation to this matter, because, to be quite candid, I have been working on it for a long while. It has always seemed to me unfair that a person who is defamed in a newspaper, where there is a permanent record of what has been said, has an easy manner of obtaining a record of what has been said whereas a person defamed on radio or television has a very difficult job in finding out what in fact has been said. In many cases it is not just a question of testing the memory of the person about whom something has been said, because frequently that person receives information from someone else. A member of the Press Gallery came to speak to me on one occasion. He had been told that some defamatory remark had been made about him on such and such a station and he wanted to know whether I could get a copy of it for him. It will be appreciated that I cannot get copies of scripts in the area of commercial television or broadcasting other than for official purposes. I can obtain them for my own personal information or for the information of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board in administering the Act. 
The Australian Broadcasting Commission has never raised any objection to a script becoming available not only to me but to any other person who has sought a copy of that script. One of the real problems, and perhaps the real problem, in the commercial area is that most of these companies - probably all of them - have an insurance policy of indemnity against this sort of action which might be taken. One of the conditions of the insurance policy is that no scripts may be given to anybody who requests them. So this is the difficulty that one has to overcome. If was explained to me several years ago that a person could make an application to the court for a court order to require the station to make the script available, provided that there was reasonable evidence that such person was the person defamed and that there was a prospective action in relation to the words stated. This was not supposed to be an expensive operation. It would have cost perhaps 15 or 20, though for some people that would be expensive. But I am informed that today such an application requires a barrister to go to the court. The person could be involved in a cost of up to $200. This does not seem to me to be reasonable. 
What worries me is that, while the principle may be accepted, it must be remembered that we are dealing with a Commonwealth Act but in relation to the action taken we are dealing with a State court. What is the evidence? As the honourable member for Franklin would know, there are various ways of recording programmes on a broadcasting or television station. They can be recorded on tape. They can be transcribed into type. There is a new method by which a full 24 hours programme can be recorded on one small tape. Will this be accepted by the courts of the States? I do not know. I want to be sure that I do know it will be accepted before I put something into the Act which causes broadcasting and television stations to make scripts available for people who have a rightful claim for them in relation to defamation. 
I have been in touch with the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Greenwood)  in relation to this matter and we are trying to sort it out. If we can sort it out and if the Government gives approval to an amendment to the Act to cover this matter - I have no hesitation in saying that I would recommend it to the Government - this is what will be done. But until I have virtually dotted that 'i' and crossed that 'f in terms of the evidence in the State courts, I would not be prepared to put this in the Act because it would, in the Act at the present time, perhaps mislead those who took action. They might find that having involved themselves in substantial cost, having obtained the script, having made their application to the court and having come before the court, they had failed in terms of the action and that we should have taken the opportunity of ensuring that the evidence they produced was acceptable in that particular court. 
I am not aware that  Mr Laurie  Carmichael is in fact responsible for the proposed amalgamated union. My understanding is that he will be one of the 3 assistant secretaries. Nevertheless, not having seen the programme mentioned by the honourable member, I will refer his question and suggestion to the Australian Broadcasting Commission which, I am sure, will give consideration to the suggestion if it believes that the programme and the statements  Mr Carmichael  made in it make some contribution to the community understanding of the amalgamation which is to take place. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Earnings for 1970-71 were $530,014,123. 
The cost of operating the telecommunication service. not including interest, was $403,077,300. 
The difference between earnings and costs, excluding interest, was $126,936,823. 
The total interest payment due to Treasury was $123,701,127. Of this $111,993,070 related to Telecommunications and of this amount $103,090,917 was charged to profit and loss account and the balance to asset accounts. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Earnings for 1970-71 were$185,599,026. 
The cost of operating the postal service not including interest was $199,815,753. 
Costs, excluding interest, exceeded earnings by $14,216,727. 
The total interest payment due to Treasury was $123,701,127. Of this $11,708,057 related to Postal and of this amount $11,271,934 was charged to profit and loss account and the balance to asset accounts. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The Board has informed that, in its opinion, Station TEN has endeavoured, to the best of its ability, to comply with the programme standards of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board which is, in fact, the only obligation the station is required to fulfil. 
I cannot provide a definite or even an approximate date when this report is likely to be made to me. This is not merely a question of adding together the charges for telephone calls, estimating what the total number of calls would be and dividing the charges by that number to get an average price of telephone calls. There must be associated with this factors which relate to increased capital expenditure. The telephone system in Australia has been developed on the basis of the variation of charge which, 1 think, everybody understands very well. Having regard to that, it means that there has not been the same necessity for channels to be provided for calls over longer distances as would have been essential if in fact these places had had a low call charge and, as a result, had a substantially increased number of calls being made. Without trying to give any precise estimate, I believe that it would cost $100m or perhaps $200m to alter the telephone system outside its present working situation to enable this function to be undertaken if it were decided that some approach to a common charge would be made throughout Australia. I do not think that this is a matter which can adequately be answered at question time because of the many factors involved in it. 
This morning I received a request to see a deputation of representatives of Post Office unions while they are in Canberra this week. I arranged that I would see a deputation at 4 o'clock this afternoon. The letter which came to me inviting me to do so suggested that the deputation would represent 6 Post Office unions. I am informed that 3 of the most important unions in the Post Office - the Amalgamated Postal Workers Union, the Postal Telecommunication Technicians Association and the Australian Postmasters Association - have dissociated themselves from the deputation to me and to honourable members during this week. The 3 unions I have named represent approximately 70,000 members of the staff of the Australian Post Office, so I think it will be seen that the representations are in fact coming to honourable members from a comparatively small area of Post Office unions, and not the broad area. 
The letter asked me whether the representatives could see me in connection with several matters - area management, mail centres, the closing of non-official post offices, and also an investigation into the central administration of the Post Office. In relation to the first 3 matters I have mentioned, the union that is most prominently represented in the deputation - the Union ot Postal Clerks and Telegraphists - has, I understand, no members employed. It is therefore a little strange to me that that union should be sending representatives in a deputation to discuss these matters. Indeed, I am given to understand that that union has been substantially responsible for encouraging the number of petitions which are circulating in the community at present. 
As to the closure of small non-official post offices, a meeting was held on the south coast of New South Wales some little time ago. Unfortunately, following the meeting a Press report was issued which suggested that a Post Office spokesman at the meeting had indicated that all non-official post offices would be closed. That is incorrect. No such statement was made. In point of fact, the then Director of Posts and Telegraphs in New South Wales, who Fs now the Director-General, represented the Post Office at that particular meeting. He has assured me that no statement of that nature was made at the meeting. 
In recent years an investigation has been conducted by district postal managers through to the head office of the Post Office arising from the economic situation. Members of this House will realise that the basic postage has been increased twice within the last 2 years and that questions of efficiency should be looked at within the Post Office, having particularly in mind the closing of inefficient post offices, non-economic post offices, but at the same time, the investigation should include inquiry into the necessity for additional post offices to be opened. 1 think it is fair to say that what has been done has been done in the interests of the Post Office itself. Looking into the foreseeable future, I believe that a very minimal number of non-official post offices throughout Australia will be closed. I have given these details in answer to the honourable member's question believing that they may be of some help to all members of this House to whom deputations seek to speak this week. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
The Post Office already publicises its various postal services, drawing attention to their advantages over alternative services. The particular aspect raised by, the honourable member will be taken into account in preparing the 1972 advertising campaigns. 
Having regard to the fact that the Australian Broadcasting Commission is an autonomous body, if the Leader of the Opposition will put his question on the notice paper I will answer it for him in due course. 
I know that within the Commonwealth Public Service, and I believe also in the State public services, a permanent officer desiring to stand for Parliament has the opportunity to stand down from his job for a period. If he is unsuccessful at the election, he is reinstated. I am sure that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition will appreciate that some of the staff of the Australian Broadcasting Commission are permanent public servants, some are employed under contract and some are employed on a casual basis. I am not certain of the category of the person to whom he refers but I shall have inquiries made. If he is a permanent public servant I would expect him to be reinstated. 
The Prime Minister informs me that he has been reinstated. If there are difficulties in relation to his reinstatement, 1 do not understand why they should occur. 
I appreciate the sensitiveness of current affairs, particularly so far as the Australian Broadcasting Commission is concerned, because it is the national service which I believe concentrates more attention and greater expenditure on providing this type of programme for the Australian public. I know that from time to time accusations of bias are made against the Australian Broadcasting Commission one way or the other, and I have even known the Leader of the Opposition to present an argument against a particular programme from a political point of view. I know that honourable members on both sides of the House from time to time disagree with the programming arrangements made by the ABC, but I am still prepared, as the Act requires, to leave that section of its operations to the Commission itself. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows, showing in brackets after the name of each office the approximate average daily sales of postage stamps for the last complete financial year before the office was closed: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have sought advice on this matter from the  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board. 
In reply to the honourable member's question, it is first necessary to emphasise that colour transmissions can only be viewed in colour by using a colour receiver. It is not feasible to modify existing receivers to display coloured pictures. It will therefore be necessary for viewers who wish to receive colour television to purchase a new receiver. 
However, the P.A.L. system chosen for Australian colour transmissions has been designed to provide good colour reception and at the same time produce satisfactory black and white pictures on existing receivers. There should thus be no need to make alterations to either the receiver or the aerial to continue to receive black and white pictures. It is known that some viewers presently tolerate mediocre picture quality arising from poor performance aerials or receivers which are in need of adjustment. In such cases the colour transmission may cause some further reduction of what is already poor picture quality. These cases are expected to occur in only a small percentage of existing homes and the remedy would be an adjustment, of the receiver by a serviceman or in fewer cases, the replacement of the aerial. 
In order to obtain satisfactory reception of colour pictures using a colour receiver the existing aerial should prove satisfactory provided the black and white picture is presently of good qual ity It is expected that this will apply to a majority of homes in Australia, but for. others it could be necessary to replace the aerial "and aerial connecting cable. In the case of receivers in blocks of flats and similar situations, where a number "of receivers take their signal from the one aerial, satisfactory colour pictures should be received without alteration, if the installation has been engineered to give a high quality of black and white reception. 
In general, it is expected that' the- great majority of viewers will need to make no alteration to their receivers or aerials if they. wish to receive colour transmissions in black and white. As indicated above, to receive colour, all viewers will need to purchase a new receiver, and in order to get satisfactory colour pictures, it is probable that a small proportion of the viewers will need to replace their existing aerials. It would seem desirable that before replacing an aerial to receive colour, viewers should await the commencement of colour transmissions. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1:111. This ratio is based on the number of public telephones in operation at the time of the latest statistics which have been released on private dwellings, ie., the 1966 Commonwealth Census. 
(a) 1:66. 
1:256. 
(a) Puckapunyal- 8. 
Certain power and authority are given to the Australian Broadcasting Control Board in relation to stan dards for programmes and advertising. The Board laid down certain conditions in relation to television on Sunday mornings, but the Board had some doubt as to the reality of the power which it was endeavouring to exercise. It may be said, therefore, that the stations were accepting overall the authority of the Board until recently when there was a testing of that authority by one of the commercial television stations in Melbourne which decided that it would telecast football matches played on the previous afternoon, as I understand it. I might mention that if this practice were to be adopted by the 4 television stations in Melbourne it would mean that of approximately 20 hours of telecasting between 5 or 6 o'clock on Saturday afternoon and through the evening into Sunday no less than 10 or 11 hours would be given to retelevising football matches. Many people have objected to me about the time taken up in this manner, many of them wishing to see other programmes. The Board brought the matter to the attention of the Acting Postmaster-General, in my absence, who has taken the matter to Cabinet. 
Cabinet reviewed the situation having regard to what had been said by the Board and to advice given by the Attorney-General that it was doubtful whether the Board had the power to insist. However, the Acting Postmaster-General did indicate publicly what the decision of Cabinet was, that additional power to control Sunday morning telecasting could be given to the Board so that telecasts at that time would conform to a standard developed by the Board, namely that Sunday morning might be given to the particular considerations of minority interests or groups within the community, to religious services and items of that nature. The Government made a decision that the power would be given to the Board and this decision was announced so that we might avoid further difficulties and perhaps have the co-operation of that one station. However, apparently the station has indicated that it will continue with this type of telecast. I cannot at this moment say when the legislation will be before the Parliament because in the last few weeks of the session the Parliamentary Draftsman will be under considerable pressure and it may not be possible to introduce legislation until early in the following session. 
I think that what the honourable member has said is perhaps not exactly correct. I do not think that it is a matter of my Department coming to  a  decision; it is a question of the Government coming to a decision in relation to this matter. It has not been an easy matter to resolve, even at the officer level. A submission has now been prepared and it is available for Cabinet. I have no doubt that it will be considered as soon as the Prime Minister believes that it can take its place alongside other business. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now  read a second  time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to require licensees of commercial radio and television stations to arrange that every advertisement on radio or television for cigarettes or cigarette tobacco is followed immediately by an announcement warning of the dangers to health of cigarette smoking. The relationship of cigarette smoking with pulmonary and cardiovascular disease, including lung cancer, heart disease, chronic bronchitis and emphysema, is accepted beyond doubt by major international and Australian medical organisations and the National Health and Medical Research Council. 
With cigarette smoking so widely indulged in throughout Australia the health hazard presents a public health problem of such a dimension as to impose a significant social cost on the community in both resources and money. However, this Government's philosophy rates very highly the freedom of individuals to decide for themselves, within the broad framework of our democratic society, matters concerning their own wellbeing. Accordingly it is .not recognised as a role of this Government to impose prohibitions on people's freedom of choice except for the most compelling national reasons. 
In deciding on a programme of action which will contribute effectively to alleviation of the problem without, at the same time, unduly trespassing on people's personal liberty of choice the Government has decided that its proper role is that of taking steps available to it to ensure that all people are fully and properly informed of the dangers to their health of cigarette smoking. It is this Government's view that the most effective contribution to the problem is a concerted programme by both the Commonwealth and the States to educate and inform the population, particularly young people, of the danger of the health hazards of cigarette smoking. 
The Government therefore has decided on 3 immediate measures. Firstly, it will conduct through the Commonwealth Department of Health, in association with the States, an education programme aimed at informing the public of the dangers to health of cigarette smoking. The Commonwealth will provide $500,000 a year for 3 years commencing on 1st July 1972 for this purpose. Secondly, it has decided to legislate within the Australian Capital Territory and Northern Territory to require health warning labels on cigarette packets, and thirdly, to legislate to require warning announcements on radio and television immediately after cigarette advertisements. 
The Bill now before the House has been introduced to implement the third part of the Commonwealth decision, whilst there has been general agreement between the Commonwealth, the tobacco industry and the radio and television media concerning certain aspects of cigarette advertising as formulated in the Voluntary Code for Cigarette Advertising it is the Government's view that this does not go far enough, and that a more positive presentation of the dangers of cigarette smoking is necessary. The Bill therefore requires the following announcement to be given after each advertisement: 
The National Health and Medical Research Council warns that cigarette smoking is dangerous to health. 
The announcement is to be clearly enunciated, without any extraneous sound, over a minimum period of 5 seconds. It is to he delivered at the level of sound normally used by the station for spoken announcements and is to avoid any element of ridicule, irony or humour. If the advertisement is in a foreign language then the announcement must also be in that language. With television, visual announcements will be shown on the screen during the period of the spoken announcement. The message is to be in simple bold print clearly legible, without any other image. The measure will therefore provide for a direct message informing people of the dangers of smoking immediately following each cigarette advertisement. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Stewart)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
Three positions of Engineer were provided in Post Office Headquarters early in March1972 and will be retained at least until the completion of State 7 of the Television Extension Plan. 
A reallocation of priorities in planning work being undertaken by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board was effected late in 1971 to advance the finalisation of technical plans for the Stage 7 stations. In the case of a number of the stations proposed for Queensland, a decision was made that the work be contracted on a 'turn-key' basis and a Specification and Tender Schedule were produced accordingly as a matter of urgency. Tenders were left open for a period of only eight weeks, which is considerably less than the time normally afforded for tendering. The Tender Schedule was issued early in January 1972 and tender assessment is now nearing completion. For certain stations in South Australia and Western Australia requiring special technical solutions for which normal equipment is not available, it . was decided that Departmental staff would adapt commercial equipment to make it suitable rather than accept the long delays which could be expected if special equipment had to be developed by industry in the usual manner. Furthermore, financial authorisation was obtained as a special measure from the Treasury early in 1972 to enable' ordering of equipment to proceed in advance of finalisation of the budgets for 1972-73 and 1973-74. This is expected to result in an improvement in the equipment delivery situation, particularly with supplies from overseas. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes, the fee is  a  'once-only' charge and represents a contribution by the applicant towards the cost of providing service at premises located beyond15 miles radially of an exchange. 
Yes. A standard contribution is considered to be the most equitable arrangement because the choice of the type of connecting link provided in  a  particular case depends on factors beyond the applicant's control. 
The cost of extending  a  radio telephone service beyond the15 miles radius depends on such factors as whether power is available, the type of country involved, the type of towers required, and the need or otherwise for repeater equipment. Generally, the cost of  a  radio circuit is constant up to a distance of15 miles but beyond15 miles costs can increase, with such increases ranging up to over $4,500. Similarly, the cost of physical line plant can be affected by the size and type of cable or aerial line plant utilised and the type of terrain over which it is provided. For extensions beyond the 15 miles radius cable costs could vary from about $210 to $1,300 per subscriber per mile. 
The following tables gives a comparison of cable costs and radio circuit costs over distances of 2, 4, 6, 8 and 10 miles: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The  Chairman  of the A.B.C.,  Sir Robert  Madgwick, has informed me that the decision not to devote the entire 'Four Corners' programme of 18th and 19th March to an edited version of a meeting in the Sydney Town Hall at which one of the speakers was  Dr Germaine  Greer was properly made within the A.B.C. having regard to the many opportunities given to  Dr Greer  on A.B.C radio and television during her Australian visit to present her views on a wide variety of subjects. 
No. 

 Dr Greer's main address was broadcast throughout Australia in 'Fact and Opinion'. The Question Time from the Town Hall was not advertised for the following week. In all A.B.C. announcements, it was made clear that the other speakers in the Town Hall debate would take part in a discussion of the issues raised during Question Time.  Dr Greer  was also invited to take part but could not do so as she was then leaving Australia, and  Mrs Brigid  Gilling, a Vice-President of the Abortion Law Reform Association took part in her stead. 
No. 
Not applicable. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The monthly average for 1972 so far is 9,225 letters. 
Virtually all letters require and are given some form of response. Fewer than 5 per cent require  a  fully written answer. Almost without exception, listeners ask that they be sent one or more items which Radio Australia makes available on request These include: Programme Guides, booklets showing how to erect  a  radio antenna for better reception, booklets for use in conjunction with the English language programmes broadcast by Radio Australia, fan card photos of Radio Australia staff, picture postcards of Australia and scripts of past programmes. If all items sought by the listener are available, they are sent by surface mail as soon as possible after receipt of the letter. 
Most listeners address their letters to a Radio Australia post office box in Djakarta. The mail is opened in the ABC's Djakarta office, read, and coded to indicate specific requests. Once a week, the letters are air-freighted to Melbourne, where the process described in the reply to Question (2) begins. When all requests in the letters have been met, they are destroyed. Some letters are replied to in Indonesian language programmes. These include letters asking questions about Australia and on general topics, as well as letters requesting music to be played in the programme listeners' Request'. 
A specific answer is difficult because of the process outlined in the reply to Question (2). Frequently, letters dated 3 months previously are received in Melbourne with letters 10 days old. The delays often seem to occur in the Indonesian postal system. The processing of letters begins within hours of their arrival in Radio Australia's Melbourne office. Because surface mail is used in the main to send the replies, it could happen that from the time  a  listener writes until he receives  a  reply, up to 6 months could elapse. 
The time lag is not generally excessive. But to minimise the delay in forwarding replies, staff has been appointed in the ABC's Djakarta office to handle as much mail as possible in Djakarta, and thus speed the answering process. Bulk supplies of items asked for by listeners have been and are being sent to Djakarta for this purpose. In addition, an outside contractor is being engaged in Djakarta to help with some aspects of the operation, particularly the distribution of English language lesson booklets. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Board's report for 1967-68 shows that both TEN and TVQ failed during that year to meet the Australian Broadcasting Control Board requirement that not less than two hours of Australian drama should be televised each month. The only other occasion on which either of these stations failed to meet the drama requirement was in the case of TEN in 1969-70. 
The Board's reports for the four years in question show that in each of these years, station TVQ failed to meet the requirement that 50 per cent of transmission time should be occupied by programmes credited as being Australian in origin, whilst station TEN did not reach the 50 per cent content requirement in the years 1967-68 and 1968-69. In addition, the Board's reports show that station TVQ failed to provide the required hours monthly of Australian programming in peak viewing time in 1967-68, 1968-69 and 1970-71. 
The effective loss in screening time of Australian drama was approximately 14 hours and 18 hours for station TEN and TVQ respectively in 1967-68 and 3 hours for station TEN in 1969-70. Both stations met the requirements in 1968-69 and 1970-71. 
In its report for 1967-68 the Board stated that the more recently established metropolitan commercial television stations (including TEN Sydney and TVQ Brisbane) were experiencing difficulties in meeting the Board's Australian content requirements, particularly that for two hours per month of Australian drama. In response to special representations which put forward in detail the financial problems facing stations TEN and TVQ, the Board, in February 1968, decided to waive the drama requirement for these stations for the remainder of the financial year. Since that time, station TEN has met all requirements, except for two hours monthly of Australian drama in 1969-70. The Board took up this failure with station TEN and the following year the station exceeded the requirement by a substantial amount. Station TVQ has operated under severe financial difficulties but nevertheless has responded to the Board's directions for an improvement in its Australian content performance. Both TEN and TVQ are at present meeting all the current requirements of the Board which call for 50 per cent overall content, 45 per cent content in peak viewing time from 6.00 p.m. to 10.00 p.m., six hours of first release Australian drama each month in peak viewing time, and four hours each month of constructive programmes for schoolage children. 
 At the end of proposed new section 100a (1.) these words appear: 
The National Health and Medical Research Council warns that cigarette smoking is dangerous to health.' 
Earlier I had circulated to honourable members an amendment which I had proposed to move and which would have deleted those words and inserted in lieu thereof the words: 
The Australian Government warns that smoking is a health hazard.' 
Since that proposed amendment was circulated the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  has circulated a proposed amendment which seeks to insert the words 'Medical authorities warn that smoking is a health hazard.' I believe that the amendment foreshadowed by the honourable member for Isaacs is preferable to the one which I had intended to move. J believe that the words which are at present in this part of the Bill place the responsibility on an Australian organisation. I do net under any circumstance denigrate the authority of the National Health and Medical Research Council. But I think that honourable members and the public will appreciate that there is a broad area of medical opinion throughout the world on the question of smoking and its effect on health. The amendment I had proposed to move was based on that proposition but I believe that the warning is better expressed in the terms used in the amendment to be moved by the honourable member for Isaacs. Also in relation to clause 3 of 'he Bill, it has been suggested that the period of time in which the announcement is made in regard to the warning should be reduced from not less than 5 seconds to not less than 3 seconds in view of the number of words which are now proposed to be used in the warning announcement. We believe that a period of not less than 3 seconds is more appropriate in view of the changed wording that we believe will be accepted. 
When I became Minister for Supply in 1958, members of that Department spoke to me about satellite communications and pointed out to me that eventually Australia could have a communications system which provided for satellites spread at 120 degrees 22,300 miles from the Earth so that they would be stationary in relation to Earth. As honourable members know, that system has come into being. When I became PostmasterGeneral some 8 years ago I made a representation to Cabinet that Australia should become a member of the international satellite consortium and the Government agreed that 3m, as it was at that time, should be made available as Australia's contribution to the capital of that organisation. Australia is now a member of the consortium and the 3 earth stations which we have in Australia at Moree, Ceduna and Carnarvon on the west coast are an indication of Australia's increasing interest and dependence, if I may use the term, on satellite communications. 
It has been suggested that Australia is an ideal country for national satellite communications. I think that this may be correct. The PostmasterGeneral's Department and other organisations within and outside the Government have interested themselves in this science, knowing that there are thinly populated areas of Australia for which satellite communications of one type or another will be the only means by which they will receive appropriate telephone and television services. So, investigations have continued in relation to the matter. As I understand it, there are 2 types of satellites. There is the one to which I have referred, which is stationary in relation to the Earth and which is 22,300 miles from the Earth, and there is another type which would be much nearer to Earth but which would not be stationary in relation to Earth. This would require a considerable number of satellites because of their changing position in relation to the Earth. At the present time, this would be a very expensive operation. I believe that the investigations to date indicate that no country has undertaken this. America, roughly the same size as Australia but with a much bigger population and much greater national resources, has been contemplating it. I believe, and the advice to me is, that it will be perhaps near the 1980s before this can be contemplated in Australia as a practical and not too expensive operation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A study is currently being made of the implications of having  a  uniform rate for all telephone calls throughout Australia. The study is nearing completion. Any announcement about the results of the study will be a matter for decision by the Government. 
j am aware that many honourable members would hope for a speed-up in telephone installations. The honourable member for Macquarie asked the Prime Minister whether the Government would make more money available, but I assure the House as I assure the Australian public that money is not the only requirement in relation to telephone installations. It is essential that we have the manpower and the equipment to do the job. If it is believed by honourable members opposite, who supposedly represent the trade union movement and supposedly understand the requirements of workmen in the PMG area, that any person can be brought into the Post Office to install telephones, then I would like to assure them that they are very greatly mistaken. It needs people who are skilled and properly qualified to perform that task, and those people are just not available in the numbers that would enable the Post Office, even with additional money, to overcome the backlog in telephone installations. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The number of applications presently deferred pending extensions to line plant and/or exchange equipment is as follows: 
I am not aware that I indicated that an inter-departmental committee was giving any consideration to telephone charges in any aspect. I did suggest publicly that my Department was in fact looking at this particular matter and in due course would inform me. Of course, this would be confidential information between the officers of the Department and the Minister. It would then be for me to make a judgment whether I took the matter to the Prime Minister or to Cabinet so that there could be a Government decision in relation to the content of the report. I do not hold out any real hope of adjustments in charges for the benefit of decentralised industry in Australia. I think ft is impossible to draw a distinction between what we term decentralised industry and private individuals in the same area with a telephone. Therefore, it is a matter on which I would not hold out any great hope of benefit. 
However, it must be remembered - and unfortunately many things are readily forgotten - that in 1958-59, when the extended local service area scheme was introduced, the area for local calls was increased from 80 square miles to 800 square miles. The number of trunk calls made was reduced by 45 per cent and it was only 3 years ago, I think, that the number of trunk calls being made in Australia returned to the number being made prior to 1958-59. Additionally, there were reductions in trunk call charges and at the maximum level, if my memory is correct, the charge was reduced from 25s to 18s which, I think honourable members would agree, was at that time a very substantial reduction. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes, my Department is aware of some inadequacies in the present telephone system at Parliament House and some minor faults in the equipment may have contributed to difficulties experienced recently. 
The installation of a new automatic telephone system of the most modern type available, and which will ensure that the expanding telephone needs of the House are adequately met, has already begun and will be completed about the end of July this year. The faults in the present equipment have been rectified and pending completion of the new installation regular checks are being maintained to ensure that satisfactory service is available. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is not possible at the present time to give a firm date for the commencement of the Area Management system. 
Provisional promotions have been made to all of the 32 positions of Area Manager and appeals have been lodged against 27 of the nominations. It is expected that the hearing of the appeals will be finalised in time to permit all Area Managers to take up duty during August this year. Each will then be required to undertake a preparatory study, of the general needs of his Area, including an examination of the advantages and disadvantages of the alternative centres for Area Headquarters. 
No additional office space has yet been leased or provided for Area Managers. In country areas, the obtaining of suitable accommodation must, of course, await the final decisions regarding the location of Area Headquarters, which will not be made until late this year or early next year. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Following the receipt of representations earlier this year, a thorough inspection of the telephone service provided in the premises of Duncan McWade Industries Pty Ltd was carried out in March last and this showed that the service was operating normally and there was no evidence of any interference or tapping having taken place. 
I might add that the Post Office is most anxious that the privacy of telephone conversations be safeguarded and the Telephonic Communications (Interception) Act and the Post and Telegraph Act and Regulations provide for severe penalties to be imposed on persons convicted of intercepting telephone conversations or using any unauthorised device for the purpose of listenting to or recording such conversations. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. Consideration has been given to the question of the television requirements of the Gosford-Wyong area by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board, the authority responsible for the planning and development of the television services. 
The Board's studies indicate that the area is provided with a satisfactory service from either the Sydney or Newcastle stations and consequently there are no plans for the establishment of additional television services for the GosfordWyong area. A serious difficulty in planning any new service for this area arises from the limitation on VHF television channels. In establishing the present national and commercial services within the Sydney-Newcastle-Wollongong area, all channels which can be allocated without interaction with services in adjoining areas have been utilised. The introduction of any new service must thus be considered in the light of possible reductions in service in some other area. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Broadcasting Control Board has the question of the further development of the commercial broadcasting services under continuing review and in this connection the possibility of the establishment of a second commercial broadcasting station to serve Canberra has been under consideration for some time, but 1 am not yet in a position to indicate the outcome. 
I am not aware of the newspaper report to which the honourable member refers. 
Yes. 
Applications would not be invited until a decision has been taken to establish such a station. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Group Charging system, incorporating Extended Local Service Areas (ELSA), was approved by Parliament in 1959 as an integral part of the Community Telephone Plan and people in outer metropolitan areas gained considerably from the adoption of this policy as did the majority of subscribers in country areas. The telephone network has since been developed in accordance with the Community Telephone Plan and there are no current plans for a revision of the overall policy. Since the inception of the Group Charging system reviews of individual areas of difficulty have been and will continue to be examined. 
See answer to part (1) of question. 
This is a question more for the honourable member to ask my colleague the Minister tor National Development. 
This would be a matter of Government policy. I can say, though, that such an extension in capital city zones could not be considered in isolation. It is clear that consideration of increasing the size of capital city zones would need to take into account the question of extending country telephone zones similarly. 
If local call charges were to be applied in all cases between exchanges up to say 50 miles apart, a considerable reduction in telephone earnings would result. Then, too, with a local call fee applying up to 50 miles, there would be difficulties in applying the present 51-100 miles trunk charge (57 cents per three minutes during the day) for calls between exchanges only slightly more than 30 miles apart. The same general situation would arise with local call fees applying up to 70 miles. 
For the above reasons alone, it would be necessary to completely revise the tariff structure. The matter would be complicated by the changes in traffic volumes and patterns which would inevitably result; these would necessitate substantial capital expenditure for the provision of additional circuits and the extension and rearrangement of switching equipment in automatic exchanges to maintain an acceptable grade of service. 
Ex-nuptial Births (Question No. 5713) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No.  Mr N.  V. Tennison was appointed by the Public Service Board under the provisions of the Public Service Act to an advertised position of Journalist in the Public Relations Section in the Central Administration of the Department. He is not a candidate for Parliament. 

 Mr Tennison will not be joining my personal staff. 
This part of the question is assumed to relate to the appointment of a Telephone Officer Keeper at Miriam Vale, Queensland, to restore continuous telephone service. In this regard a public meeting was held at Miriam Vale on 1st December 1971, to explain the general situation and conditions of appointment, including the approximate remuneration, to local residents and 2 persons expressed interest in conducting the exchange - a  Mr Craig  and a  Mrs Mackay.  Subsequently, the premises from which  Mrs Mackay  had proposed to operate the exchange were found to be unsatisfactory and this left  Mr Craig  as the only applicant at that stage. I understand that, while  Mr Craig  had operated an army switchboard for about 6 weeks during World War 2, neither his wife nor his daughter have had any experience in exchange operating. 
In the absence of any other application,  Mr Craig  was informed that his appointment as Office-Keeper was likely and that 16th December 1971, would be the tentative commencement date. Although  Mr and Mrs Craig  completed certain documents, including a secrecy declaration, a number of aspects had still to be resolved at the district headquarters at Rockhampton before final arrangements could be made to effect a formal appointment. 
When reviewing the conditions of appointment which would apply in this particular case, it was found that the annual allowances would in fact amount to about $8,000 instead of $7,000 and the Department was therefore obliged to reopen the matter. As a result, a  Mrs Williams  and a  Mrs Brackin,  who had previously shown some interest in the appointment, lodged firm applications.  Mrs Brackin,  who had worked in the Post Office and exchange at Miriam Vale since December 1970, as a full-time employee was clearly the most efficient of all the applicants and she was therefore offered the appointment. She commenced duty as Telephone Office Keeper on 16th March last The representations received from a Member of the Queensland Parliament during 1971 related to the provision of continuous telephone service at Miriam Vale. They did not refer to the choice of Telephone Office Keeper and had no bearing on the final choice made. 
None. 
The question of the Australian Post Office being conducted as a statutory authority is a matter for Government decision. As political influence does not affect appointments now, conversion of the Post Office to a statutory authority would not change the situation in this regard. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) At the meeting at Memooloo it was indicated that the Post Office could provide exchange facilities at Toprain within twelve months if the applicants reached agreement on the construction of lines to the exchange point at their expense. However, they were unable to agree between themselves on this aspect. At a later meeting in Brisbane in August 1971 between the Director, Posts and Telegraphs, Queensland, and Members of Parliament who were pursuing the matter on behalf of the applicants, the offer was repeated as a temporary measure pending the provision by the Post Office of standard Departmental lines which could not be programmed for some years. 
The position now is that, in the current 3-year works programme, an amount of $20,000 has been allocated for the construction of a trunk line from Blackwater to Toprain for the establishment of exchange facilities at the latter centre. It is expected that the trunk line will be constructed by the end of the 1972-73 financial year and the work on subscribers' line reticulation and supporting trunk line provision on main routes will then be undertaken, with completion of the project in its entirety being scheduled for 1975-76. However, when the Toprain trunk line is constructed, it is proposed to utilise it for the establishment of a public telephone in) the area so that a measure of service will be available to the residents pending connection of their services. 
Funds for the Post Office capital works are allocated to the various States as far as practicable in proportion to the demand for services and the physical capacity to meet the demand. However, it is not just a question of finance. The telephone system is complex and the provision of new services often involves the establishment of new exchanges and trunk line facilities, as in the case of Toprain. Projects of this nature, requiring as they do highly trained staffengineers, technicians and the like - must be preceded by detailed surveys and exchange area planning to ensure that available resources are utilised in the most effective manner. Even if unlimited funds were available, this would not in itself mean that telephone services could be installed in all instances without delay, since the ability to expand capital within a given period is dependent on the extent to which resources of skilled manpower and materials can be devoted to the task. 
and (5) The Government looks to the Post 
Office to conduct its activities on sound commercial lines as far as practicable. However, it seems clear that, if an organisation were operating purely and simply as a business undertaking, it would not be prepared to provide telephone services in many of our rural areas. Rural telephone services are generally not an attractive financial proposition because of the heavy costs involved in their provision and maintenance for a relatively low revenue return. For example, in the Toprain case, total revenue was estimated in 1970 at $4,500 per annum for a capital investment of some $100,000. Such uneconomic projects can only be undertaken by the Post Office in its role as a public utility with the responsibility for providing telephone services in unprofitable as well as profitable areas. 
Honourable members will remember that there was a meeting of Commonwealth and State Ministers on the matter of a warning on cigarette packets. I was informed that some of the States could not see their way clear to include a warning on cigarette packets until 1st May next year. Having made inquiries, I understand that 2 States - Western Australia and Victoria - will require the warning to appear on packages as from 1st January. Under that circumstance I believe that the proclamation relating to advertising on radio and television should apply from the same date. It will apply for the whole of Australia, So, there will be an element of conflict in some States as between the warning given on packages and that given on radio and television. 
It is very easy for honourable members to make assertions such as the honourable member has made relating to delays. I am sure that the majority of the Australian public appreciate that great technical requirements are involved in the establishment or furtherance of television in any part of Australia. A good deal of the equipment must come from overseas and, if there is delay in delivery of that equipment, there is delay in completion of the installation. I assure the honourable member, as I assure those members of the public who do not have television and wish to have it at an earlier time than it is expected to be provided, that every endeavour is made by the authorities responsible to meet target dates; but this is not possible in all cases, for reasons beyond the control of those who have the responsibility. 
It is a fact that colour television will be possible as from 1st March 1975. It is .not . expected by the Government - or, I think, by most members of the House - that every station will have colour television as. from 1st March 1975. That statement applies to the national service, as well as to. the . commercial service. The commercial stations are protected to a degree by the ownership provisions of the Broadcasting and Television Act and it is not anticipated -that any. other protection will be required for them. I think most of us appreciate that some stations will find no difficulty in financing the establishment, of colour television, whereas others may have difficulty. I think it will be understood that there will be delay in the case of some stations, but I . will be surprised if there are many stations which are not able to arrange the necessary finance to achieve the introduction of colour television by a date not long after 1st March 1975. ' 
Pursuant to section 96M of the Post and Telegraph Act 1901-71, I present a statement on Post Office Prospects and Capital Programme 1972-73. 
The answer to the  hono urable  member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Broadcasting Commission is constituted under the Broadcasting and Television Act. It is comprised of  9  people and has the full responsibility of controlling and administering the affairs of the organisation. The Commission is required to provide adequate programmes having regard to the community which receives those programmes, whether broadcasting or television. I have recently come to the conclusion that the autonomy which is given to the Commission under the Act in the areas of both programming and administration is being accepted by employees of the Commission as autonomy in their hands. If this is so - and I believe that there is justification for that view - the Commission is falling down on its responsibility and is not exercising proper control over its employees. In my view those employees are in a situation similar to that of the employees of any department or organisation within the community. 
As to the second part of the honourable member's question, of course authority is given under the Act for the Commission to delegate its responsibilities to a commissioner or to the general manager. I am not aware of the degree to which this delegation has taken place. I will ask the  Chairman  of the Commission to make this information available so that I may pass it on to honourable members. At the same time I will also ask for information on the guidelines given by the Commission to employees particularly in relation to current affairs programmes so that this information can also be placed in the hands of honourable members. I will also seek advice on the instructions given by the British Broadcasting Commission so that honourable members may compare the situation in Great Britain with that which applies in Australia. 
I believe that the televising and broadcasting of the Olympic Games, or some parts of them, by the Australian Broadcasting Commission are matters of great interest to many people in Australia who in any way follow sport, particularly in the international sphere. I made inquiries after discovering at the weekend that this ban was likely to be applied by the Professional Radio Employees Institute. I understand that this results from a demand by the employees for a  7i  per cent increase in wages as against the 4.2 per cent increase which in fact has been granted to them. I further understand that the matter is now before the Public Service Arbitrator and therefore it is not my desire to enter into discussion in relation to the merits or otherwise of the case. 1 hope that influences will be brought to bear on the members of this Institute so that they will withdraw any suggestion of blackmail in relation to the telecasting and broadcasting of the Olympic Games. I think I had better leave it at that at this time. I hope that the Australian people will not be disappointed. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Although the engineering studies in relation to the establishment of the Esperance station are well advanced, the Australian Broadcasting Control Board has not reached the stage where the operating conditions for the Esperance station can be finalised and firm cost estimates obtained. However, the present budgetary cost for use in planning the station is $100,000. 
lt is not practicable to provide an estimate of the cost of providing television service to the population of the Dundas and Esperance Shires which will not be served by the Norseman and Esperance stations. Costs would, of course, be dependent on the extent to which services were to be provided in these Shires which, in aggregate, extend in an east-west direction for some 550 miles and in a north-south direction for some ISO miles and are generally sparsely populated. Obviously, the costs of providing additional services would have to be related to the additional number of people who would be provided with service. In this connection, low-powered stations designed to provide a high-grade service within a radius of some 8 to 10 miles and a 'fringe' or rural service some few miles beyond, could cost in the vicinity of $50,000. 
The cost of a high-powered station providing a coverage within a radius of some 60 miles from the transmitter would be of the order of $600,000. 
The proposed station for Esperance is expected to encompass some 6,000 persons within its service area. It is estimated that an additional 1,000 persons reside within a radius of 70 miles of Esperance. 
Because of the extensive nature of the Dundas and Esperance Shires and the scattered nature of the population, it is not practicable at this stage to indicate either the prospects of, or the manner of, the provision of additional television service to the areas concerned. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following statements contain details of the applications made to me during 1971, for approval of changes in the beneficial ownership of shares in companies holding licences for commercial television stations and changes in the memoranda and articles of association of such licensee companies. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The Australian Broadcasting Control Board has carried out some investigations of the possibilities of establishing a national broadcasting station to serve the Wyndham-Kununurra area, including some field studies. However, further studies are required before the Board will be in a position to submit a report and recommendations to me on this matter. The Board is, however, pursuing the matteras expeditiously as practicable. Apart from any other considerations, there are considerable difficulties with regard to the provision of programme relay facilities to the area. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The effective radiated power of the proposed station in the direction of Southern Cross will be lkW (1,000 watts). 
About15 miles. However, sufficient power will be radiated towards Koolyanobbing (22 miles distant) to permit the operation of a translator or community aerial system from the hill above this town. 
At least 10 times and possibly 20 times the proposed power. 
$200,000 to $250,000. 
$30,000. 
A delay of from one to two years would result depending upon how soon the decision to change was made. 
Just before I came into the House today the General Manager of the Australian Broadcasting Commission indicated to me that there had been difficulty last night. I was not here and knew nothing about it until he spoke to me. I understand that recently - the Leader of the Opposition perhaps will recollect this if he has been looking at other programmes relayed between Melbourne, Canberra and Sydney recently - there have been interruptions and the Post Office staff has had difficulty in finding just where the trouble lies and in being able to correct it. It is believed that the trouble is somewhere associated with the Sydney South Telephone Exchange, but it is not always possible for technicians to locate and correct these problems quickly. 
I understand that some comments have been made in certain technical areas or by people with some technical knowledge who are employed in the Post Office. 1 believe that they have not indicated to officers of my Department what these defects are. I would have thought that they had a basic responsibility to inform the Department so that it might have the opportunity to overcome these defects, if in fact they exist. 
There have been some comments made recently in relation to the Australian Broadcasting Commission. But from my personal point of view, I have suggested it is undesirable that we should seek to make party politics out of views which might be expressed in relation to the Commission. I assure the honourable member that I believe it has always been the situation whilst I have been PostmasterGeneral that the ABC has been responsible and has accepted responsibility for its programming arrangements. Nothing that I have said in any way alters my view that that should continue. I therefore say that if there is any adjustment of any programme by the ABC, it is an internal arrangement and has nothing to do with any representations by members of the Government, particularly myself. 
I am sure that all those Australians who are interested in current affairs programmes would have regarded the programmes last night as being among the best that have been seen in this country. As to showing the films to ABC interviewers, or indeed interviewers in relation to current affairs programmes generally in Australia, that of course would be a matter for the stations concerned. But I think that there was an object lesson in the programmes last night for many Australian interviewers. There is a great difference, of course, between a programme that lasts for half an hour with an interviewer who can put those being interviewed in a completely relaxed frame of mind and what I might term the quick-firing type of current affairs programme which we are used to, with five or six segments within half an hour and the maximum number of questions in each segment. I think the type of programme last night might not suit all occasions but I believe that it was a tremendously interesting and valuable contribution to television. 
My understanding is that the honourable member is perhaps referring to incidents related to  Mr Ducker  of the trade union movement. I believe that  Mr Ducker  was interviewed on television by the Australian Broadcasting Commission and that one of the current affairs programmes covered a confrontation in which  Mr Ducker  was involved outside the particular building. I think that what the honourable member is really referring to is that there are a number of organisations, including students in particular, which have limited financial resources and which depend upon the media to give them publicity They therefore indicate to the media some protest rally that they intend to hold, and the media are there when something is going to happen. I believe that this did not apply in the situation in which  Mr Ducker  was involved but it certainly applies in most instances. I remember a demonstration in Brisbane some time ago which Four Corners' happened to include in its programme. How 'Four Corners' could have been accidentally in Brisbane at that time I have never been able to work out. 
 The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
The Board submitted its report to me on 7th July, 1972. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth-State Conference of Ministers has not resumed to consider the report of the special Committee on educational television. 
See (1). 
See (1). 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Production and distribution - $25,250. 
Three. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As shown on attached list. 
As shown on attached list. 
(a) 182; (b) 23; (c) 21; (d) 113. 
Pursuant to section 28 of the Broadcasting and Television Act 1942- 1972, I present the 24th annual report of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board for the year ended 30th June 1972 together with the financial accounts and the report of the Auditor-General on those accounts. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Financial data on the operations of the Overseas Telecommunications Commission (Australia), which have been extracted from the Annual Reports tabled in Parliament each year, are furnished: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Contracts were let as follows: 
New South Wales directories - Edward H. O'Brien Pty Ltd. 
Victoria, Queensland South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania directoriesDirectories (Aust.) Pty Ltd. 
It is the policy of the Post Office not to disclose detailed prices of a contract or other information beyond that which is published in the Commonwealth Gazette. However, in respect to the new directory advertising contracts, additional information is being made available because of the great public interest in this matter particularly in regard to the contracts for New South Wales and Victoria. 
The position was that Directories (Aust.) Pty Ltd offered the best tenders for all States. For instance, the net return to the Department offered by, Directories (Aust.) Ply Ltd for the New South Wales directories was, depending on the actual sales achieved, from 13.6 per cent to 15.8 per cent higher than for that offered by Edward H. O'Brien Pty Ltd. For the Victoria directories, the range was from 13.7 per cent to 25.7 per cent and, for a combination of both States' directories, the net returns from the offer by Directories (Aust.) Pty Ltd were from 9.8 per cent to 15.1 per cent better than those from Edward H. O'Brien Pty Ltd. However, the Department decided on a policy of having at least two contractors as it was considered in the public interest to maintain competition between contractors. Against this background, Edward H. O'Brien Ply Ltd was granted the contract for New South Wales which represents slightly more than 40 per cent of the total business. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. However, later completion dates than those specified were agreed between the Department and Contractor. 
There was no serious inconvenience. Subscribers continued to receive the same telephone service they had in the past and there was no delay in the provision of telephone services for new applicants. 
No. The completion dates were agreed because some items of equipment for Seaford were necessarily diverted by the Department to other more urgent work. 
See answer to 3. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The position remains the same as indicated in my reply to a question without notice by  Mr Jess  in the House of Representatives on 10th May 1972, Hansard page 2286. 
The  answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 

Aspley Acres, Aspley. 
The Australian Broadcasting Control Board offers technical advice to the Government in relation to the establishment of television and radio stations. I will refer the honourable member's question to the  Chairman  of the Board and ask him to let me have a report on the matter. 
As I have said on many occasions, the Australian Broadcasting Commission is responsible for its own programming arrangements. I will treat the honourable member's question as being on notice and I will obtain an answer for him. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. By far the greater proportion of all telephone exchange installation work has continued to be carried out by Departmental staff. 
Not applicable. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. The Australian Post Office will continue to carry out most of this work with its own staff. 
Not applicable. 
International Conferences in Australia: 
Support by Commonwealth Government  (Question No. 5896) 
by leave - The honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  drew attention to the article in yesterday's 'Courier Mail' and to the cartoon in today's newspaper. However, he did not draw attention to the article which appeared in today's 'Courier Mail'. If I might say so, it contained a most ungracious withdrawal. It was written on the basis that Federal members expected, whichever Party was in power after the election, to receive an increase in salary. The article pointed out that, in fact, in yesterday's edition a figure of $15,200 had been mentioned and that this was incorrect. 
I think that the 'Courier Mail' added insult to injury in the so-called way it withdrew today and corrected the article which appeared in yesterday's newspaper. I think that this is an unfortunate situation because the people who make up the Press of this country - the media of this country - are supposed to be informing the public of facts. I think that that is the last thing they do. They almost mislead the public by misinterpreting the real facts and I think it is unfortunate that this so often is directed at members of Parliament who spend a great deal of time trying to do an honest, decent job on behalf of their constituents. 
Bill presented by  Mr Howson,  and read a first time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
These areas are served either partly or wholly from the Petersham, Newtown, Under.cliffe and Glebe exchanges. At the end of August, there were no applications deferred because of non availability of plant in these areas. However, there is always a number of applications awaiting provision at any one time which are either being investigated for the allocation of plant, awaiting the customer's acceptance of a quotation or actually in the process of being installed. Generally, this figure, in the areas concerned, is about 300. 
The period between the date of payment of advance fees and the connection date in these areas is: 
Longest - Three weeks 
Shortest - One week 
Average - Two weeks. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
167. 
Approximately 40 per cent in both years. 
Minimum - 4.6 cents per parcel. Maximum - 18 cents per parcel. 
The provisions of Section 9 of the Post and Telegraph Act relating to the declaration of secrecy apply only to officers of the Department and do not extend to mail contractors. However, before finalising contracts the suitability of a personto carry outthe responsibilities is one of the aspects considered. 
1 have received representations from the provincial newspapers concerning this matter. It must be realised that this type of mail is receiving a very substantial concession at the present time. The loss in this area of mail is approximately SI Om a year and many of the articles are being carried by the Post Office for as little as 2c an article, if they are under 4 ounces in weight. There has been a relaxation for inserts as newspaper supplements but it must be appreciated that competition is also coming from private industry for the service of delivering articles similar to those carried in the householder service. The Post Office has found it necessary to compete in this field and we are giving a good service. At the same time we are giving a great deal of consideration to the provincal Press and I think it would be unrealistic to suggest that the 60 million to 80 million articles carried in the householder service by the Post Office should in fact meet such competition that we must go out of business in the interests of the area which is losing so much money for the Post Office at the present time. 
Pursuant to section 78 of the Broadcasting and Television Act 1942- 1972, 1 present the 40th annual report- 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
, (4) and (5) There are no air services in Australia on which the carriage of airmail is subsidised. 
The rate of payment to Macknight Air Services for the carriage of airmail on the WaggaDeniliquin air service was reviewed in March 1972. The mail rate of .0366 cents per lb mile is the basic rate which applies to commuter air service operators and is somewhat higher than that paid to the 2 major domestic airlines. Mail is only one of the items carried on the WaggaDeniliquin air service and, as the quantity is relatively small, the payment by the Post Office is considered reasonable. The amount earned by  Mr Macknight  for airmail conveyance in 1971-72 exceeded the estimate finally furnished to him before the Agreement was completed in July 1971. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
When a broadcast transmission is interrupted by a fault condition, it is standard Post Office practice to attempt immediate restoration. If this cannot be done by clearing the fault quickly, a substitute circuit can usually be used to restore service without delay. 
The fault which affected the Parliamentary broadcast on 22nd August was reported to Departmental technical staff at 8.15 p.m. Although a substitute circuit was provided promptly, the distortion of the transmission continued. The trouble was subsequently found to be caused by a condition in common equipment serving a number of circuits at the City South exchange, Sydney. The delay on that occasion was due to the obscure nature of the fault and it is unlikely that such a condition will recur. 
Pre-school Teachers (Question No. 6243) 
I think it is correct to say that there are some writers for newspapers who rush into print with ill conceived or ill informed judgments in relation to some printed matter. One of the newspapers indicated that the question first asked of me which, I suppose, triggered off the recent discussion, was on 16th August. The Australian Broadcasting Commission's report was dated 10th August. 
I received it yesterday morning and I tabled it yesterday. It is not a question of when it is dated by the Commission; it is a question of when it is received by the Minister and how soon thereafter he puts it in the House. I do not think I could have been more expeditious in relation to this matter. But in regard to the comments in the ABC's report I would like to mention to the House that there has been discussion, almost to the degree of confrontation, between the Senate Estimates Committee and the Australian Broadcasting Commission in relation to the disclosure of certain information concerning programming and other things in the ABC area. It was a reference to these matters which was contained in the ABC's report. I do not believe that the report made any reference to recent discussions, for the reasons I have indicated. 
The Post Office, and particularly the telecommunications section, for many years has been regarded by the Government as a business undertaking. Therefore, it is required to use business judgment. Within the telecommunications area there are profitable sections, borderline sections and loss sections. The Post Office therefore has determined a priority plan which has regard to each of these particular sections so that overall it can be a profitable operation. I assure the honourable member that, if all attention were given to the country areas, the loss factor would develop very rapidly and perhaps charges would increase. It is only because of the adoption of the priority basis of giving consideration to all sections of the community in relation to telephones that we have been able to avoid more frequent increases in telephone charges. 
Cable ordering is done approximately 12 to 18 months in advance of the requirement because of the problems associated with manufacture. A similar situation generally applies in regard to exchange equipment, particularly equipment for new exchanges, many of which go into country areas. I think Western Australia probably has been better served in this connection than any other State over the last 5 or 7 years. But it is a question of ordering in terms of the supply of money. We do not see any great virtue in holding tremendous stocks. If the honourable member were to examine the accounts of the Post Office he would find that its stockholding represents many millions of dollars. We endeavour to work on the basis of forward ordering having regard to the likely availability of funds and of manpower to undertake tasks from time to time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Based on the statistics furnished to the Australian Broadcasting Control Board by the commercial broadcasting and television stations following the Senate election, the figures for the individual States are as follows: 
Pursuant to section 96l of the Post and Telegraph Act 1901-1971, I present the annual report of the Australian 
Post Office for the year ended 30th June 1972 together with financial statements and the report of the Auditor-General on those statements. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. The value of the accepted tender is published in the Commonwealth Gazette. 
Private contractors have always been employed over a wide range of activities on behalf of the Post Office. In some areas, there is no corresponding activity carried out by Departmental staff, such as when new technologies are introduced, whilst in the remaining areas the majority of work is carried out by the staff of the Department. With fluctuating public demands for Departmental facilities, there has arisen in the past a serious shortage of skilled manpower which prevented Departmental staff from carrying out all of the installation work in the approved Capital Works Programmes. As a consequence, die assistance of the private sector was obtained and its capability expanded to overcome the problem. The Department has retained the benefit of having that capacity within the private sector. The use of private contract, in this instance, however, has been dictated by scarcity of resources and not its economics. From studies that the Department has carried out from time to time, it is satisfied that it is not more costly to use private contract. 
See answer to (2). 
All relevant cost factors, including overhead items. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I do. The honourable member for Sturt made mention of the fact that I could not deny that I had received many deputations on the question of the pink pages of the telephone directory, 1 have not received any deputations whatsoever about this particular matter. If he was referring to some letters which I might have received and he had made himself clear in that respect I would have accepted his comment, but in the way he made the statement it cannot be accepted. It was completely incorrect and misrepresented my situation. 

 Mr FOSTER (Sturt)- If I may,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  in fairness to the Postmater-General- 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
The Commission as a matter of policy, allows special screenings or auditions only of programmes which are transmitted. 
A transcript of  Dr Greer's  remarks broadcast in the radio programme 'Fact and Opinion' on 22nd March 1972 is now available. I understand a copy has been forwarded to the Honourable Member by the ABC. 
A company by the name of Directories (Aust.) Pty Ltd was operating in Australia in relation to Pink Pages advertising. Some 6 or 7 years ago that company was taken over by an American company. When tenders were let recently for Pink Pages advertising on the normal basis of calling of tenders, the tenders received from Directories (Aust.) Pty Ltd were more favourable than those of Edward H. O'Brien Pty Ltd for every State of the Commonwealth. It was in the best interests of the Post Office for the Directories (Aust.) Pty Ltd tenders to be accepted. The Post Office and I believed that it was desirable to have in Australia at least 2 companies capable of organising the selling of advertising in the Pink Pages. Notwithstanding that the tender from Directories was of advantage to us compared with the tender from O'Brien in the case of New South Wales, we gave the contract in New South Wales to O'Brien. Therefore, we made a sacrifice in terms of our interest so that we could have 2 firms associated with this operation. The Pink Pages for New South Wales represented more than 40 per cent of the total. We believe that what we did was justified in that the O'Brien organisation received that area of the advertising and Directories, which presented better tenders, received a little less than 60 per cent of advertising in the other States. 
Recently I circulated to members of this House a report presented to me by officers of my Department about uniformity of telephone charges throughout the community and uniformity of trunk charges within the community. Therefore I believe that most honourable members are reasonably well informed in relation to the advice given to me. Approximately 54 per cent of calls which are made do not extend beyond a 3- minute period. It would be excessively expensive for the Post Office to install the equipment necessary to limit local calls to 3 minutes. Equally it would be very expensive in terms of loss of revenue, if we were to extend the period for trunk calls beyond the 3-minute limit. Honourable members will know that substantially throughout 
Australia subscriber trunk dialling is available. This means that, dependent upon distance, a local call charge is made for so many seconds of a conversation. If this system is used properly by people within the community it is believed there can be substantial savings. Let me give an illustration. One businessman indicated that he would not use subscriber trunk dialling. The Post Office made a test of his use of trunk calling and was able to show him that had he used subscriber trunk dialling for the same length of time he would have saved $48 in that particular month. If people learn how to use STD properly there can be considerable economies to them. Of course, there are considerable economies to the Post Office. STD saves the Post Office, in operating costs, about $2.5m per annum. 
In accordance with the statement I made in the House on setting up the inquiry on frequency modulation broadcasting, I present the following paper: 
Frequency Modulation Broadcasting - Australian Broadcasting Control Board - Report dated June 1972. 
I seek leave to make a short statement on the report. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
This report results from an inquiry which was conducted at my direction by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board into the possibility of frequency modulation broadcasting in Australia. The inquiry attracted a great deal of interest, and the Board heard 70 witnesses and considered some ISO written submissions. In addition, the Board itself undertook, through its Technical Services Division, an exhaustive examination of the technical problems involved, which are unique to this country. The result is a comprehensive report which the Government accepts as a blueprint for the introduction of frequency modulation broadcasting in Australia. 
Briefly, the Board recommends that frequency modulation broadcasting be introduced in this country in the UHF band - that is, ultra high frequency - where there is sufficient space for the service to be utilised to its full potential. The Board notes that this decision means that a great deal of fundamental planning will have to be done to prepare adequate technical standards, and the Government has asked the Board to put this work, which is estimated to take 3 years, in hand immediately. The Government has accepted in principle the Board's recommendation that frequency modulation broadcasting should provide a second regional service for the Australian Broadcasting Commission, planned as far as possible to cover the entire population. The introduction of this service will overcome a serious deprivation which has been suffered by country listeners, who have available to them less comprehensive service from the national broadcasting organisation - the Australian Broadcasting Commission - than do city people. This lack has always been of concern to both the Government and the Australian Broadcasting Commission, and I am very pleased to announce that it will now be overcome. 
Opportunity will also be taken to provide an FM station, devoted mainly to the broadcast of fine music, to be operated by the Australian Broadcasting Commission in the capital cities. The Board has also recommended, and the Government has agreed in principle, that provision should be made for commercial FM services throughout the country. The Board has put forward proposals designed both to ensure that these services will be economically viable and also to encourage new managements and new ideas. These proposals will require careful consideration. The Board has also recommended the establishment of a new kind of broadcasting stations to be known, it is suggested, aspublic broadcasting stations. These stations, itis proposed would be conducted on a non-profit basis to cater for educational, professional, musical, religious, and other like interests. The Board has proposed that the transmitters for these stations should preferably be operated by the Government, with time apportioned between interested groups by a representative committee of management The Board has not attempted to spell out the method of operating these stations in detail at this stage. The Government accepts the fact that there is a demand in the community for the services of such stations, and will look to the Board to put forward detailed proposals in due course. 
As I said, the preliminary technical work to establish an FM service in the UHF Band will take approximately 3 years, and this will start immediately. Contemporaneously with the technical investigations, the Board will develop, in association with my Department and the Australian Broadcasting Commission, coverage plans for the national service, and will also prepare proposals for commercial stations and for the public broadcasting stations. As soon as the technical standards have been promulgated it is hoped that the Government will be able to invite applications for licences for both commercial and public stations, and the first of the necessary public inquiries should be held in 1976. With regard to the national service, it is proposed that it should be developed as the work of converting the Australian Broadcasting Commission's television stations to colour is completed. 
Finally, I should emphasise that the introduction of FM will not be permitted to hinder such further development of the present medium frequency services as may be possible. As I have often stated, the possibilities in this band are very limited, but there is no doubt that the existing AM stations will betheprinciple source of radio service for many years, and they should be developed to the maximum possible. However, frequency modulation broadcasting represents a significant advance in broadcasting techniques and, when it is developed, as it will be, in the UHF Band where sufficient space is available for many stations it will offer a broadcasting service which the Government is confident will serve this country's needs for- entertainment, information, and education for very many years. I present the following paper: 
The motion before the Chair was moved by the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  a little before lunch. The Government rejects the suggestion that this report by the Joint Committee on Publications should be taken to debate immediately. In the few minutes available to me I should like to cover some of the subject headings without actually debating the matter which falls within those headings. This report was presented to the Parliament this morning. No member of the House, other than members of the Joint Committee on Publications, has had the opportunity of reading that report. The honourable member for Sturt indicated that in addition to the report there were some 190 pages of transcript of evidence. Surely if we are to have a meaningful debate honourable members who are interested should have the opportunity of reading both the report and the transcript of evidence. If that opportunity is not to be available to honourable members - it would not be if the debate were to be proceeded with immediately- 
That is what I am talking about. 
The honourable member, who accompanied me recently at the handover of the cableway of this station, knows that the building at die top of the mountain has been completed and that the installation of equipment was under way at that time. I announced earlier that it was hoped that this station would be on air in December, I still believe that is the time when it will be on air, although testing of the station will have to be carried out before the actual date of opening in the total sense. 
I have always indicated to the House that because much of the equipment required for the expansion of television comes from overseas there could be delay in its receipt and subsequent installation. I have not been informed of any delays in relation to the stations which the honourable member mentioned, but I will make inquiries and confirm whether that is the situation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The number of permanent residential homes alone is not the only criterion on which we base the need for a house to house postal delivery service. It is also necessary to take into account the volume of mail available for delivery. At present new delivery services are generally provided when a community grows to the point where there are more than 150 permanent households within a radius of  of a mile of the post office receiving on the average, at least 225 letters a day. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
ABC Officers have visited these offices. 
The ABC considered the location satisfactory in earlier years but has recently been seeking better accommodation. 
See answer to (3) above. 
Yes. The Commission has actively been seeking improved accommodation since early this year and negotiations for better accommodation in Djakarta were recently concluded. 
 I ask leave of the House to make a statement on the same matter. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Corbett)Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
The honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  concluded his remarks by suggesting that this matter ought to be dealt with in an appropriate manner. That is exactly the way in which I will treat most of the remarks that have been made by him tonight - wild accusations and insinuations, without one bit of evidence as to their truth. I have been here in this Parliament for 21 years- 
Opposition members - Too long. 
Well, I am leaving very shortly, so that will please honourable members opposite, but they will still be on that side of the House. In my 21 years here 1 have never heard anything so disgusting as what has been said by the honourable member for Sturt tonight. Although he is dead, let me say this: When the late member for East Sydney was here - and he had a reputation - he was never as bad as the honourable member for Sturt has been in the insinuations which he has made against people who are not in a position to defend themselves, and the honourable member knows nothing. Apart from saying that, I will not try to deal tonight with the 'This Day Tonight' programme and people who are appointed by the Australian Broadcasting Commission. The honourable member has not made one comment which reflects on the character of any one of those people, so what therefore have I to defend? Nothing. I have been a long time trying to get into the minds of people, of honourable members opposite particularly, that the programme arrangements, the employment situation in the Australian Broadcasting Commission, the contract arrangements with employees in the Australian Broadcasting Commission are matters for the Commission itself. They are entirely the responsibility of the Commission. I have never made one request in relation to an appointment. I have never made one request in relation to the inclusion or exclusion of a programme except if it is covered by the Act, as is my right, and that is if a programme is related to the national interest. 
If the honourable member wants to make these wild accusations against me or against the Government he  is  tree to do so, of course, in this place according to the rules of the House. But I believe it is only necessary for me to give a denial. There is not one member of the Opposition who has been able to produce one piece of evidence of the truth of the sort of comment which has flowed from the honourable member for Sturt tonight. I therefore treat his remarks with the absolute disdain that they justify, by not answering them. I will just resume my seat. 
Pursuant to section 53 of the Overseas Telecommunications Act 1946-1971, I present the annual report of the Overseas Telecommunications Commission for the year ended 31st March 1972, together with financial statements and the Auditor-General's report on those statements. 
 Mr Speaker,  this is a peculiar form of debate in that the first 2 speakers are allowed 15 minutes each and subsequent speakers only 10 minutes. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  has allowed me to follow the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Jeff Bate)  so that 15 minutes will be available to me. The Leader of the Opposition will be able to speak for only 10 minutes. I am indebted to him and acknowledge the consideration that he has given to me in this matter. 
The first thing I should say is that the Post Office is a very big spender of money within the Australian community. This year it has a works programme of approximately $484m. I think most honourable members would recognise the fact that this means that the Post Office spends more money in one year than any of the new development projects have cost in total. 
That, perhaps, puts in perspective the amount of money spent by the Post Office. I have no objection to more money being made available if in fact it is a reasonable proposition that it should be made available. I am in favour of government spending of all moneys that rationally can be spent within the community, but I must say also that I am not in favour of increased taxation, and sometimes it is a little difficult to reconcile substantial increases in expenditure with maintenance of the level of income tax. 
Of course, the additional money which would be required by the Post Office for its purposes - and no doubt additional money needed for other purposes - would have to come out of taxation because in recent years loan fund raisings have been inadequate to meet actual requirements. So there is an obligation on the Post Office. It is to install telephones at the lowest possible cost. On average today a telephone costs approximately $1,000 to install, and if we move into the area of carrying the cost of undergrounding telephone wires, it will require probably an additional $5m to $7m per annum, having regard to the number of homes that are built in the Australian community. 
But this is only one of the additional matters about which representations are made to me. The Leader of the Opposition will know that a council in his own electorate has requested that parking facilities be provided for all Post Office employees' cars as well as for the cars of people who use the Post Office facilities. Of course, this means that in the more densely populated areas of the Australian community a very substantial amount of additional money would be required to acquire extra land and, of course, for the construction of car parking areas. 
What is the lowest cost solution in relation to telephone installation? The honourable member for Macarthur referred to many, many wires in the. streets. I think that the Post Office is past the day when many, many wires were placed in a street. Because of the use of multi-cables contained in a polythene covering, there is not the necessity for a single wire or double wire connection of every telephone to the, exchange. From time to time we have tried to come to an arrangement with the electricity authorities, and I do not offer any criticism of those authorities. There has been the utmost co-operation, and it has taken place in 2 ways. First of all. instead of the electricity people using a row of poles on one side of the street and the Post Office using a row of poles on the other side of the street, these multi-cable polythene covered cables can be suspended from the poles of the electricity people. Then from time to time the service is reticulated across the street or across the footpath to some 5 or 6 homes. 
The alternative is to underground the wires, and where the electricity people are undergrounding their electricity reticulation, provided the additional cost is paid the Post Office is allowed to put a conduit in the same trench as that used by the electricity people. Here lies the difficulty; the trench is required to be deepened. There must be a reasonable separation between the electricity wires and the telephone wires because, of the different voltages carried. In relation to electricity the developer does not have any apparent difficulty in accepting that additional costs should be paid by him. Why is it that developers accept the situation with electricity but are not prepared to accept the, same situation in relation to telephones. I am afraid that I do not understand the attitude of the developers, particularly as in broad terms, the additional cost for undergrounding an electricity cable is 2 to 3 times higher than the cost of Post Office underground reticulation. 
When I refer to the lowest cost solution what, in fact, 1 mean is that the. expenditure of money by the Post Office should be at the lowest possible cost. The accepted principle is that if there is a higher cost, that higher cost must be paid by someone else. We know perfectly well that these higher costs, whether paid by the developer of the local council, are added to the cost of the allotments bought by the Australian public. That principle can be criticised, but we must have regard to the total cost factor and must recognise that if we are to spend another $5m to $7m per annum to carry out this work - without any additional money coming into the. Post Office - fewer telephones will be provided for the Australian public each year. I do not know whether that is what honourable members wish or whether they are prepared to say that the Government must provide, more money for this particular purpose. In the last 9 years it has not been easy for me to obtain what I believe to have been the finance necessary to cover the essential installations made by the Post Office. I think it is a fairly simple choice. It is either that the Post Office is given more money to do this work or somebody else pays for the special considerations that are requested. The request relates also to reticulation to houses. The principle of undergrounding can be managed in the ways I have mentioned, but generally the situation is that having undergrounded the conduit and the cable, poles are erected at points along a street and from these poles reticulation takes place. This is a type of reticulation similar to electricity reticulation from electric light poles. The broad suggestion is that reticulation from the street cable to the telephone in the home should be underground. This would involve additional cost. Who is to" pay for it? We believe that additional costs should be met first by the developer, secondly, by the home builder or, thirdly, by the Post Office if more money is made available for this purpose. In some areas there is easy digging, if that is a reasonable term, of the roads for trenches. In other areas, for example in the city of Sydney, the digging of trenches is extremely difficult because of the sandstone country. Tremendous additional costs are involved in breaking through the sandstone for trenching purposes and this adds to the actual cost of reticulation. 
It has been suggested by many developers that the Post Office's costs are unnecessarily high but, as I have mentioned, the electricity cost is 2 to 3 times higher than the Post Office's cost and if developers believe that they can do the same job cheaper we have no objection to their digging trenches to our specification. We will then put the conduit into the trenches and draw the cables after the trenches have been filled in. If the developers have a problem in meeting the cost as a charge - the Post Office doing all the work - they do have an alternative which they can accept. 
The honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Bate)  has suggested that there should be an overall underground system. At this point of time honourable members are in the city of Canberra. Canberra does not make any demand for undergrounding of telephone or electricity cables. In Canberra provision is made for laneways at the back of houses and poles are erected in those laneways and not on the roads. The Electricity Commission and the Post Office co-operate with the local authority in this regard. 
I do not adopt, nor does the Post Office, any high-handed attitude in regard to this. The Post Office merely accepts the principle that it should conserve and keep at the lowest possible cost telephones which are supplied to the community. If the Post Office received more money - we appreciate that in many respects it would incur additional costs because of interest charges on money borrowed from the Treasury, which is a situation we accept - and if the Parliament and the Government decided that there should be an undergrounded cable, the Post Office would do the work. Quite candidly, I would hate to see a situation where there would be an increase in the number of deferred applications or unsatisfied demands for telephones. Further, in relation to the policy established in 1970, if cables were put underground, country people would wait a longer period for their telephones to be installed. 
I believe honourable members must get this situation into perspective before making a judgment and not willy nilly saying that the Post Office must have more money to do this or that. Honourable members must see to the end of the road and how additional problems can be met before they attempt to exercise any judgment. 
I know that the question of environment arises. Poles are unsightly but Australia is a large country with a very small population. It has approximately 5 million to Si million taxpayers who are carrying the whole burden of State government, Commonwealth Government and local government development costs. It is a substantial burden on each taxpayer. I believe that the burden is high enough and that it should not be increased merely to satisfy a particular area or the particular attitudes of individuals within the community. 
Usually it is my custom in estimates debates to cover most of the points raised by honourable members in their speeches. Tonight it is not my intention to do so because so many honourable members have spoken and so many points have been raised. I shall deal with what I think are the more important points, and many of the other points will be answered by letter, as has been done in the past. I think the Assistant Minister assisting the PostmasterGeneral  (Mr Robinson)  covered the question raised by the honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Luchetti)  regarding an inquiry into Post Office affairs. I come to the point raised by the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr Mackellar)  in relation to communication by satellite on an internal system basis. He gave figures in relation to Canada and the United States and suggested that this system would appropriate to Australia. I think that perhaps the honourable member does not completely appreciate the problems experienced in Australia, although he mentioned the sparsely populated areas and the facilities which are necessary to make properly effective a satellite system of communication for, as he put it, telephones, radio and telex. 
I am sure that the honourable member must appreciate, as do other honourable members, that an earth station is required to receive messages from satellite at the present time. In fact, a message is received at the earth station - I think I am right in saying - at a strength of 100th of an ordinary torch battery and it is brought into the Australian system by increasing the power of the actual message. So before we could use satellites for the purpose of providing communication to the interior dwellers of Australia it would be necessary to overcome the problem concerning what I term the earth station. I believe that over the next 10 or IS years the scientist and the engineer will find means by which an earth station can be reduced to such a size that it can be incorporated virtually in a television set. When that happens it will be possible for people in the outback to receive messages in this way. But as the position stands at the moment, the message must be received at an earth station, which is a very expensive piece of equipment, and it must be reticulated over a broad band telephone service in order to get the message into the transmitters and then into the home. While I believe that in the future this system could be used in Australia, I am afraid I cannot accept that it would be posible to use it at the present time or even necessarily in the near future. 
Several honourable members - in particular, the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  and the honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson)  - have raised the question of telephone account overcharging. Many accusations about overcharging are made. Unfortunately, I believe that people do not keep appropriate control over the use- 
Of course, the honourable member for Corio is an expert. I would not know anything. I know only what flows from the engineers and the scientists in my Department. I will give 2 illustrations. Not long ago I received a letter from a woman who said that she had had difficulty with a girl who had come into her home and asked to use the tele phone. This woman believed that the girl was making a local call. She offered to get the number for the girl, but the girl said: No, I am sorry, I want to ring my mother but she speaks only Italian'. The charge was $54 for a 17-minute call to Rome. The woman was not blaming the Post Office for that situation, but it is an indication of the sort of thing that can happen. 
Now let me give another illustration. A gentleman said to me that he and his wife occasionally left their home for periods of 10 days, and they left in the home people who were scrupulously honest. I said to the officers of my Department: 'Find out when next they are going away and put test equipment on the line'. Of course, at the end of 10 days the test equipment showed that STD calls had been made to Melbourne and Brisbane from that particular telephone. This gentleman decided that the only thing to do was to install another telephone. Here were people who were believed to be scrupulously honest. In most cases when we check with people who complain of overcharging we find that other people have had access to the telephone. A person could be sitting in his lounge room and somebody  could  ask to use the telephone. That person could use the telephone for STD purposes just as easily as he could use it for local call purposes. Unfortunately, not everybody in the community is honest. 
The equipment and the machines which the Post Office provides are checked time and time again. The meters are checked before they are installed and from time to time after their installation. There are very very few occasions on which test equipment, when applied to lines after complaints are made, reveal the meters to be malfunctioning or overcharging. 
The honourable member says: 'There are some*. The Director-General of Posts and Telegraphs has admitted that some overcharging may have occurred in approximately 40 out of one million cases. That is a very small percentage. This happens no matter which system is used. If we refer back to the old manual system we find that overcharging occurred under that system because a telephonist would make a mistake in taking down a number. Instead of taking down 1234' she might take down '1243'. lt would not be until the people actually received the docket and checked it that the mistake would be discovered. This type of mistake has always occurred in relation to charging. 
The honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  raised a question concerning provincial newspapers. 1 will be pleased to look at the suggestion which he has made. I think it would take me too long this evening to try to cover the whole area in relation to the Post Office householder service, the supplement included in country or metropolitan newspapers and the subsidy which the Post Office pays to country newspapers. I will look at the matter and will inform the honourable member of the position in due course. He also referred to our country lines policy, as did another honourable member. 1 wanted it to be clearly understood that the country lines policy was never intended to be implemented in a matter of 2 or 3 years. It will take 10 to 12 years before we are able to implement fully the policy under which we provide, at departmental expense, a telephone line out to a IS mile limit in country areas and out beyond that point, at a cost of S40 per quarter mile, to subscribers who want a service. I am sorry to say that there is no way in which we could achieve a total connection to subscribers in these areas in a short period. There would not be the money or the manpower to achieve that result. 
The honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis)  and the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  referred to the provision of television in remote areas. I really believe that when the seventh stage is concluded, when television is available to 98 per cent of Australians - which is almost the same percentage as in the British Isles - we in Australia will have done a pretty good job in the provision of television. It is ridiculous to suggest that because the Government has announced its agreement to the introduction of colour television this will, in fact, affect any further development of black and white television. It will not. The Australian Broadcasting Control Board will consider continuously other new areas which may require television, where it can be provided at not excessive cost. 
I want to comment on what the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Sherry)  said. He took the honourable member for Mcpherson  (Mr Barnes)  to task in relation to the Australian Broadcasting Commission. The honourable member for Franklin suggested that there had been political interference and political imposition that suited the government of the day. I think they were broadly the terms he used. I do not know where one goes to prove the falsity of this accusation. I have said there has been no political interference. The honourable member for Franklin said that he did not blame me and that he would not mention people by name. But the  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Commission, in a journal of September, contributed a substantial article. In this article in 'Radio Active' he said: 
The decisions by the Commission were made entirely on its own initiative and in the proper exercise of its responsibilities, and they were made without pressure from any outside source. In particular, it is quite untrue that they were made under political pressure - which implies political direction regarding ABC programmes or political interference in the determination of programme policy. 
The Commission does not object to criticism of ABC programmes by individual politicians, who have at least as much right as anyone else to express their views; but the Commission has not accepted and will not accept direction from any outside source on its programming policy. 
Do the honourable member for Franklin and other honourable members accept that as a truthful statement from the Chairman? Do they accept my denial or do they say that the  Chairman  is, in fact, a liar when he puts words such as those into a public document? I believe that we should try to understand the real situation in regard to this matter. There has not been Government interference. The honourable member for Franklin said that this is the situation into which we have got ourselves. I suggest to him that this is the situation into which members of the staff of the Australian Broadcasting Commission have got themselves. 
Not long ago in this chamber I tabled guidelines laid down by the Commission in relation to current affairs programmes. I have not heard one criticism from a member of this chamber of the quality of those guidelines. They were guidelines to the staff. Is there objection to those guidelines? Is it not a responsibility of the 
Commission lo indicate to the staff how, in fact, they should- 
If that is the way he puts it I suggest that the honourable member should stand in his place and indicate that the Prime Minister may have laid down guidelines for the staff of the ABC. In fact, I do not believe that to be true. 
The guidelines are laid down by the Australian Broadcasting Commission. It is the Commission which has autonomy not the staff. 
lt has almost complete autonomy in programming. The honourable member knows that on questions of public interest I have a right to direct the ABC that it shall, in the national interest, present a particular programme. I have the right to declare that a programme shall or shall not be televised or broadcast. 1 have not used that right in my 9 years as Postmaster-General, so I suggest that an interjection such as he has made has no validity whatsoever in relation to this argument. If the staff is in any difficulty, members of the staff have brought it on themselves because they have tried to take autonomy unto themselves in relation to the way they should present programmes and not in accordance with the guidelines laid down by the Commission. 
The honourable member for Franklin raised the question of Huon Valley television. I merely indicate to him that the Board has completed its extensive field surveys in the Huon Valley area. It expects to make a recommendation to me in the near future. I hope that this will be satisfactory to the honourable member and to the people who live in that area. I am sure it will be appreciated by him that a tremendous amount of work has been required of the Board in relation to the seventh stage, particularly having regard to colour television and the inquiry into frequency modulation radio broadcasting in recent times. 
The honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson)  raised the question of separate charging meters for subscriber trunk dialling calls. Overseas there are machines capable of doing this but they can be applied only to the system provided with certain types of electrical exchanges. We do not have that type of exchange in Australia. As I understand it, I do not believe that it would be possible to attach any type of equipment which would separate the listing of STD calls from the normal local calls on our telephone system. 
This is the ninth occasion on which, as Postmaster-General, my estimates have been before the Parliament, and it will be the last time. I appreciate the co-operation which honourable members have given me over the 9 years I have been PostmasterGeneral, not only in relation to the estimates debates but also in relation to my responsibilities in many areas. I publicly acknowledge the very high quality and standard of work performed by officers of my Department. I use the term 'officers', but I include every member of the Post Office and the other instrumentalities. I believe they genuinely endeavour to serve the Australian public. I know we have our odd industrial problems. Let us not worry about those at this time. I still believe that within my Department are groups of genuine Australians who are concerned with assisting the Australian public. 1 include also in these remarks my personal staff. Some have been with me for the full 9 years. I believe most members would acknowledge the courtesies which they have received from them while I have endeavoured to carry out my duties. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 

 Sir ALAN HULME (Petrie- PostmasterGeneral) -  Mr Chairman,  I suggest that the order for consideration of the proposed expenditures agreed to by the Committee on 31st August be varied by next considering the proposed expenditure for the Department of Shipping and Transport. 
The  CHAIRMAN (Mr Lucock)Order!  Is the suggestion of the Minister agreed to? There being no objection, that course will be followed. 
Department of Shipping and Transport 
Proposed expenditure, $129,275,000. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A provisional promotion to the position concerned was made on 10th February 1972. Appeals were lodged against this and other provisional promotions as an Area Manager and after these were heard by the Promotions Appeals Committee this provisional promotion was confirmed on the 14th September 1972. The Area Manager referred to commenced in this new position on 2nd October 1972. 
The centres to become headquarters in each country area will not be finally selected until late this year or early next year. Country Area Managers are at present studying the advantages and disadvantages of alternative centres as area headquarters. They will have discussions with councils and other interested public bodies and organisations to enable full consideration to be given to the views of these groups when preparing their reports and recommendations. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The achievements of the Fisher Government have already been recognised by my Government by the issue of a special stamp in March, 1972, as part of the Prime Ministers Series. Departmental publicity at that time drew attention to important legislation passed by the Fisher Government, including the Maternity Bonus.. As this stamp was intended to cover all aspects of the Fisher Government, it is not proposed to recognise individual achievements. In any case, some 18 months are needed for the design and production of a stamp and there is now insufficient time available to issue such a commemorative stamp in 1972. 
I cannot remember whether a request has been received but I can inform the honourable member that, if it has not, it would be impossible now to prepare a stamp for issue early in 1973. It takes between 12 and 18 months to design a stamp, print it and distribute stocks throughout Australia. Any organisation which wants a commemorative stamp issued has to make application well in advance so that consideration can be given to it together with the many other requests that are received. Approximately 8 commemorative stamps a year is the maximum which can be issued in addition to the other stamps which are issued on the initiative of the Post Office, such as the States' national flowers, the Prime Ministers series, the birds series and others which we believe are justified to be included in our stamp programme. I will advise the honourable member if a request from Victoria has been received. Generally it is only something of Australia-wide interest rather than local or only State interest that justifies the issue of a stamp. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Department could not give any such assurance to employees of Edward H. O'Brien Pty Ltd. The position is that, under a competitive tendering system, continuity of employment cannot be taken into account when assessing tenders. Nevertheless, immediately after the allocation of the Victorian contract the Department took the initiative to bring together the incoming and outgoing contractors to facilitate smooth transitional arrangements including the transfer of employees from the latter to the former organisation. During and subsequent to these discussions, Directories (Aust.) Pty Ltd stated publicly that they were interested in employing staff of Edward H. O'Brien Pty Ltd - a willingness later attested to by representatives of Directories (Aust.) Pty Ltd at the recent hearings of the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Publications who inquired into this matter. 
and (3) The extent of transfers of employees between the 2 organisations depends on a number of factors including the time ..scales within which the organisations can release or accept the employees, the qualifications and suitability of the employees themselves, as well as their willingness to accept the conditions of employment offered by the incoming contractor. The Department is not aware of the number of former employees of Edward H. O'Brien Pty Ltd who have taken outside employment. It is understood, though, that Directories (Aust.) Pty Ltd have already arranged to employ about 50 former O'Brien staff when they become available and that further interviews will be held. So far as the Head Artist in question is concerned, it is our understanding that Directories (Aust.) Pty Ltd do not have a requirement for his particular skills, but that the Company has made alternative arrangements for him. 
No. In its report, the Joint Committee on Publications observed that the decision of the Post Office to award the Victorian contract to Directories (Aust.) Pty Ltd was in accordance with accepted practice. 
For the information of honourable members, I present a financial and statistical bulletin on the activities of the Australian Post Office for the year ended 30th June 1972. 
 The number of applications deferred in each Federal electorate is as follows: 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have been informed by the Acting  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Commission,  Mr A.  G. Lowndes, that the ABC does not keep records of invitations to appear in ABC programmes which are declined. 
 I rise to enter the debate because of the amendment which has been moved by the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron).  I do not see the amendment merely as a motion for a re-reference to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works. The Parliament will be dissolved next week and I do not suppose that another Public Works Committee will be appointed until the end of February or during March. This would involve a delay of 6 months before consideration by the Committee. As I understand the honourable member, that is not what he wants. Having regard to his comments it seems that he wants the Public Works Committee to reconsider it and come back with a recommendation that the work should not be proceeded with. He is favouring the purchase of a good deal more land and the re-designing of a building for the area. One could see that the time which would elapse would mean a delay until the time that the exchange equipment is required for service. 1 have in mind 3 or 4 years. 
I point out to honourable members that in my view there is no justification for supporting the amendment. As the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  said, it is a matter of urgency. The Post Office had to deal with circumstances which existed when the plans were put down. It is not something to be considered in terms of requiring more land. In 1955 the first additional property was purchased by the Post Office with a view to future requirements. Moving to the southern end of the land, at present owned by the Post Office, there is the German Club. There was great resistance from the German Club when we sought to take even part of its land, but we came to an arrangement with the Club. Further south again is a Methodist Church which operates a rehabilitation of prisoners service. This is not something to be treated lightly by a government, Commonwealth or State. It is a matter of great social importance within the community and one towards which the community would not accept a willy nilly approach, an approach to get rid of the operation at any cost to acquire more land for another purpose. 
On the other side is a medical practitioner. He is located on the northern side of the property. It is very easy to say that you should not worry about a medical practitioner but if as the honourable member for Griffith said, it is a substantial residential area, 1 submit to the House that a medical practitioner is a very important person there. Where is he to go? Where is he to find a new place? 
Is he? I will come to that. He has given an indication to the Post Office that over his working life there is a revenue of Sim available to him in terms of services rendered and fees to be collected. I am not making a judgment on that. I am merely indicating what he said. 
What is the situation in respect of his displacement from his normal occupation? Of course, courts take into consideration the disturbances created by displacement. What is the price to be paid? He will sell at any price he determines. 
The honourable member for Griffith does not take into consideration that an excessive payment by the Commonwealth for land will be used by the ValuerGeneral as the basis on which he values all the property in the area for rating purposes Whom are we protecting? Are we protecting the environment by purchasing this land? Are we protecting the residents of this area in this way? On the other hand, are we dissociating ourselves from the public interest, the residential interest, because of the higher values and the higher rates which the residents will be called upon to pay once we pay an extreme price over and above the market price of the land? 
I suggest to the honourable member that he is not really serving the best interests of his constituents by making this purely a constituency matter. 
There is no doubt that we do not have sufficient land for our purposes. A 17- storey building is planned, 14 storeys above ground and 3 storeys underground. If the building was erected on one floor, I am informed that it would occupy 5.2 acres. Taking the whole block concerned there would not be that acreage. I believe there would not be more than 2 acres in the whole area. The Post Office has a fraction less than I acre in the area. Other considerations are involved. A building for a telephone exchange over a big area is not the most suitable establishment. In the first place, there are questions of security. Surely no honourable member will suggest that security in relation to a telephone exchange is unimportant. The bigger the area, the greater the access and exit areas and the greater is the danger. These days I think most honourable members expect that the utmost security will be preserved. With a high rise building this aspect can be contained much more satisfactorily than in a broader one. The cost in relation to equipment must also be taken into consideration. A telephone exchange requires, as a very basic essential, substantia] cable. It is much cheaper for the Post Office to send cable up the wall on to the next floor than it is to distribute substantial cable over big floor areas on the one floor. 
The next point concerns air conditioning. If the equipment in telephone exchanges is to work properly the exchanges need to be air conditioned. I am sure that most honourable members and members of the Public Works Committee will appreciate that if we are to air condition a very large area we have problems in terms of the size of the ducting that is necessary. It may be that instead of one air conditioning plant we may have to have 2 or 3 plants associated with the operation of air conditioning. Therefore I say to the honourable member for Griffith and the House that a high rise building for a trunk telephone exchange of this type is much more suitable than is an exchange which is built on only 2 or 3 floors. I say this although we could accept a situation that with more land we could go perhaps to 7 or 8 floors to make the building suitable. 
It is not all that the honourable member is asking for, if I might answer his interjection. I think that the honourable member was really asking a question which relates to my first comment on the delay which would result. This delay is totally unacceptable from the point of view of the Post Office. The Post Office is a public utility. The decision to build this telephone exchange is not just a Government decision; this is a matter of tremendous interest to the public of that area. 
I have had some confrontations with the Lord Mayor of Brisbane and the Brisbane City Council in relation to some of our buildings. But the proposal before us has the complete acceptance of the Lord Mayor. He accepts the quality and the situation of the building in relation to the development of that area of the city of Brisbane. So I believe that there is reasonable acceptance of the proposal before the House. The honourable member mentioned the environmental concept. I quite accept that we would prefer to have a much larger area. The building will be set back at least 20 feet from the street. This gives us the opportunity to give some consideration to the environment. I know that there is insufficient car parking space. But I want to make it quite plain that the Post Office, as is the case with other Commonwealth departments, is required by the policies determined so far by the Government to observe certain standards. Car parking is a modern concept of town planning. I believe it is one which will require great expenditures by the Commonwealth and perhaps a new policy if we are to make provision of parking for customers - not that there are many customers with a telephone exchange; but certainly there is a big requirement for car parking for the 600 or 700 people who may be working in the building. The Post Office is prepared to consider environmental problems, but we have planned this building in accordance with the broad policies which have been laid down. 
I would like to refer to one other matter. As I mentioned, the Post Office commenced to purchase additional properties in 1955. The honourable member for Griffith has represented his electorate for the last 6 years. As far as I can recollect I did not receive until the last day or so any representation by him in relation to this matter. The Brisbane records in the Post Office reveal only that the honourable member made a telephone call on one occasion in relation to it. I suggest that it is unfortunate that the honourable member did not take advantage of the opportunity available to him to attend the meeting of the Public Works Committee, not when it met in Canberra, but when it went to Brisbane to look at this area. On that occasion the Committee looked at our central trunk exchange and also at another site on the northern side of Brisbane for future exchange purposes. I would like to say to the honourable member that I believe that, having regard to the delay, not through a re-reference to the Public Works Committee, but the impossibility of meeting a time scale in terms of 1975-76, he might see his way clear, and bearing in mind that this matter has had an airing, to withdraw the amendment that he has moved. I understand that the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  does not intend to encourage the Opposition to vote in favour of the amendment. 
I suppose that when one stands to say a few words as his swan song in the national Parliament his mind goes back over the years that he has been a member of it, and therefore he could speak for a long while of the experiences that he has had. I will not allow myself to be tempted too far into that area. Before I speak in terms of ones own membership and other members of the Parliament, could I join with those who said Thank you' to yourself,  Mr Speaker,  and, if I might use the all inclusive expression, to all officers associated with the Parliament who have made our task so much easier over the years. I do it in that way in the interests of brevity. 
I say 'Thank you* to the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  the Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  and those other honourable members who tonight have expressed their kind sentiments to me and others who are leaving the Parliament after many years of service in it. I am afraid that in my case it was a situation of apprenticeship within the organisation of the Liberal Party. I could only say that I commend to any aspirant for political honours that in that area he or she would gain an experience which I believe would make him or her better fitted to come into this place to make a contribution. I think it gives such a person an understanding of the people within an area rather than merely the association with constituents who have problems or the association that we have together in this place. Because of my appenticeship in the organisation it is now 29 years since I became associated with politics, and for the last 23 years I have been closely associated with this Parliament. It has been my privilege to have been a Minister or a member of Cabinet for some 12 years out of those 23 years. I think that apart from the Prime Minister and the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  that is as long service as any other Minister has given. I am not quite sure how the Prime Minister has stood up to 21 years. I find 12 quite sufficient and I am prepared to take my departure. 
I say thank you to those who have expressed feelings of generosity and appreciation. I want to say thank you also to all the members of the Parliament for the friendship which they have given to me. I am inclined to a view at the end of 9 years as Postmaster-General that I have not had the easiest of portfolios, particularly if one remembers that with it is associated the Australian Broadcasting Commission. Before I came into the Parliament I remember William Morris Hughes teaching me a political lesson. Before I was a member we were having a discussion on a policy matter. We discussed it, I suppose, for 6 or 7 hours. He had not been present at the discussion, but he walked in just before the vote was to be taken and, as was his usual custom, he cupped his ear with his hands and asked for a repeat, merely in the interests of giving him a little more time to think of the appropriate reply. The right honourable member for Melbourne will remember the habit. Having a repeat of the motion he said simply: 'Not sufficiently ambiguous'. I have a feeling that a lot of people who listen to the debate from both sides of this House find that we are sufficiently ambiguous to confuse them as to what is the content of the matter that has been under discussion. 1 offer my very best wishes to every member of the Parliament. I have seen many come and I have seen many go, and one naturally has an interest in the individual. But like the honourable member for Gellibrand, I have not made many enemies in this place over the period I have been here. I wish the very best to each and every member in the future, hoping of course that the majority after 2nd December stays on this side of the Parliament. 
There is one additional thing 1 would like to say. As Minister for Supply I was in charge of the second largest department of the Commonwealth, and as PostmasterGeneral I was in charge of the largest department of the Commonwealth. I therefore believe that I am in a position to offer a view as to the quality of service of people who work in Commonwealth departments. In my experience I could not have expected to find a group of people more conscientious than those in the departments with which I have been associated. Naturally one comes into close association with many other public servants over a period of 20-odd years in this place. I believe that they are all high quality, very conscientious people, and I am always sorry when I hear criticism of them. I say 'Thank you' not only to the people in those departments I have been in charge of but also to my personal staff. My secretary in the Post Office has been my secretary for 9 years. I am pleased to know that she became a Member of the British Empire following last New Year's honours awards. I believe that she justly deserved it because of the service she has given to every member of this Parliament. To other members of my staff I also say 'Thank you'. Again my very best wishes go out to each and every one of you. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The relevant information for most of the stations concerned is set out in the table hereunder. The details are based on the transmitting sites which have been determined, some quite recently, for each station. In order to take advantage of elevated sites, many of the transmitting stations are located at various distances, up to 10 miles, outside the main centres of population which they will serve. 
As indicated in the table, final operating conditions have yet to be determined for the stations at Moora, Carnamah, Mingenew and Three Springs in Western Australia, and also in respect of stations at Katherine and Tennant Creek, Northern Territory which are two of the three additional areas approved for inclusion in the seventh stage of development (see note e). The information in relation to these stations will be notified to the honourable member as soon as possible. 
In relation to the question of the provision of high powered stations, it is to be noted that, if high-powered stations were provided for each site, the cost of the seventh stage of development would increase from an estimated $5m to $24.6m. Quite clearly, the considerable additional capital costs involved would be prohibitive having regard to the small additional population which, would be served. A further important consideration is that there is a limited number of television channels available and it would be technically impracticable for most of the stations included in the seventh stage of television development to operate on high power without interference being caused to reception of other stations, not only, in relation to the seventh stage stations but also in relation to existing television stations serving areas of earlier television development. The power used by each station, up to an effective radiated power of 2,000 watts, has been adjusted to most effectively serve the areas concerned. It is considered that a large number of the population not served by the proposed stations could eventually be served more economically and more effectively by translator stations or other means than by high powered stations. 
