I am sure that the Treasurer is aware of the complexity of business in modern commercial life but I have had a number of complaints from various accountancy firms and organisations concerning the amount of time that has to be spent in the preparation and completion of forms for the Bureau of Census and Statistics. While everyone is aware of the necessity for these forms I ask the Treasurer: Could he have discussions with officers of the Treasury and the Bureau of Census and Statistics to see whether these forms could be kept to a minimum? 
Before calling the honourable member for Forrest, I would remind the House that this is bis maiden speech. I call the honourable member for Forrest. 
Order! I suggest to the honourable member for Moore that the subject matter he is debating at the moment in response to the interjection of the honourable member for Mallee is more relevant to the wheat stabilisation legislation which will be presented to the House at a later stage. In relation to the Bill before the House, I have allowed certain examples to be given by honourable members in order to illustrate a point that they have desired to make. The danger here is that an illustration develops and becomes actually an honourable member's second reading speech. I would think, as I said, that the comments being made at the moment by the honourable member for Moore could be made more profitably in the debate on the Bill dealing with wheat stabilisation, which will be discussed later in this House. 
Raising the base price under the International Grains Agreement to an unrealistically high level when there were great world surplus stocks undoubtedly gave rise to the situation where wheat stopped moving onto the world markets as freely as it should and gave rise to the situation whereby the Australian Wheat Board has failed to liquidate its overdraft in the requisite time. If this is not the fundamental issue of the legislation presently before this House I would like to know what is. This is the crux of the whole problem. When Australia is in such a position as it is in today it cannot demand of the world an artificially high price for a commodity that it produces when that commodity is in surplus production all over the world. To attempt to solve the problems of the wheat industry by artificially raising the price of wheat within Australia and for export to offset the undoubted inflationary pressures in Australia is completely unreal. It just cannot be done without causing problems not only in the wheat industry but in the wool industry and in all the other primary industries. These are the basic problems. 1 listened to the honourable member for Bradfield discuss in a most critical manner the help that the Government has given in the form of price support and financial arrangements enabling first advances to bc paid to the wheat industry. I did not hear, and I have never heard, the honourable member discuss to what extent these problems are contributed to and aggravated by the very high tariff protection which is given to secondary industry and which, in association with arbitration court decisions, creates the inflated and artificial environment in which the wheat growers and other primary producers must purchase their commodities in order to meet their financial obligations and to live with the same dignity as other Australians. These are the basic problems of the Bill that we are dealing with. 
The honourable member for Riverina talked about selling the year's crop and repaying the advance made on that crop within the same year. This is not the real issue of the problem. The problem is that we have not sold sufficient wheat to repay the amount of money that has been made available in the form of first advances on the 1968-69 crop. Rarely have we sold the whole of 1 year's production of wheat in the year in which it was grown, but we have on most occasions been successful in selling sufficient wheat to liquidate the first advance. This is the first occasion on which we have not managed to do this. This is the present problem. The honourable member for Gwydir referred to the distribution of quotas amongst the States. Although I accept that the distribution of the quotas within the States is the constitutional responsibility of the States and not the Commonwealth, the national quota from which the State quotas are derived is the responsibility of the Commonwealth. It is when we come to a division of this national quota that we project into the States the problems which they are presently trying to solve. I accept that the distribution of the quota within a State is the responsibility of that State. 
I remind the honourable member for Moore of my earlier remarks. The honourable member for Gwydir did mention the quota, but strictly speaking it has no relevance to this Bill. 1 allowed the honourable member for Gwydir to mention the quota merely as an illustration. The honourable member for Moore has now made a comment upon the remarks that were made by the honourable member for Gwydir and it is possible that the debate would develop into a general debate on quotas if the honourable member continued in that strain. This Bill has a narrow compass; it relates to the borrowing of moneys by the Australian Wheat Board from the Reserve Bank for the 1968-69 wheat crop and the authorisation of this Parliament for the repayment of that loan. I would not like in any way to limit the debate to too great a degree, but if I allow honourable members to go too wide of the Bill we could go into a general debate on the problems of the wheat industry and even finish up debating the situation of all primary producers. I suggest that the honourable member for Moore has made sufficient comment on the remarks made by the honourable member for Gwydir and that he might now make his remarks relevant to the Bill itself. 
Bill enabling the Government to take over that part of the overdraft of the Australian Wheat Board occasioned by the as yet undischarged first advance payments which are required to be discharged under the terms and conditions under which the money was borrowed from the Rural Credits Department of the Reserve Bank. The point I am making is that the distribution of this first advance money amongst the States is by means of quotas. Therefore, the overdraft which is being shifted from one form to another is in fact the essence of a Bill dealing with moneys that have been distributed amongst the States on the basis of quotas. Last year the national quota amounted to 357 million bushels. This was the average of the deliveries to the Australian Wheat Board for the 5 years from 1963 to 1968, rounded ofl to the next million bushels. This in turn was divided up amongst the States in the first instance, in proportion to their contribution to this 5-year average delivery quota and then reduced in some States by a certain amount so that wheat from one Stale could bc added to the wheat of another State, which in effect meant that you were not adding bushels of wheat to a Stale's figure but adding $1.10 a bushel to the first advance payment made to that State. That is an essential part of the legislation we are talking about. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)I would suggest to the honourable member for Moore that the details which he is relating at this stage are outside the relevance of the Bill before the House. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
Order! The Minister's time has expired. 
Is leave granted? 
Order! The honourable member for Melbourne Ports has spoken in the debate. 

 Mr CREAN (Melbourne Ports)- -I wish to make a personal explanation. I have been misunderstood, by my colleague. I merely said that I accepted the assurance of the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  that this was only a contingency motion and that there was no intent to introduce any legislation, and that if any legislation is introduced, notice of it will have to be given in the same way as notice has to be given of other legislation. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Order! The honourable member's lime has expired. 
1 suggest to the honourable member for Fremantle that the subject matter he is debating at this moment is not covered by the statement of the Minister. As 1 have said before, to bring in a subject to illustrate a point would be correct, but the whole of a speech should not be made on a subject that is used for that purpose. 
I have received a letter from the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  proposing that a definite matter of public importance be submitted to the House for discussion, namely: 
The increased burden which rising interest rates place on those purchasing and wishing to purchase their own houses. 
I call upon those members who approve of the proposed discussion to rise in their places. (More than the number of members required by the Standing Orders having risen in their places) 
In speaking to the Address-in-Reply to the GovernorGeneral's Speech on the occasion of the commencement of this sessional period I want to say that this Speech indicated a legislative programme which I am sure will be to the continuing advantage of this country. It highlighted some of the developments that have taken place in the last 20 years under the control of this Government and some of the opportunities that face Australia in the future. Before I go on to general comments I just want to make reference to one matter, that is, the proposed Industry Development Corporation. There has been a degree of criticism of this suggestion based, I am sure, on a lack of understanding and a teck of appreciation of the reason for the establishment of this Corporation. I do not want to make a long comment on it because at the moment the details have still to be presented, but this is something that has been of concern to many people over a period. 
We fully appreciate that overseas capital is necessary for the development of this country but thought must also be given to the retention by this country of control of those industries that are vital to our development. One illustration of this was given in recent weeks when there was comment about the development in this country of industries to process - if I may use that term - those minerals which are taken from our soil, and the tremendous advantage that there would be to this country in employment and economic terms if this were brought about. These are the things to which great consideration must be given and these are the things, of course, to which this Corporation will turn its attention. 
One of the major matters that I want to speak about at the moment is primary industry. In the last few days a great deal of consideration and thought have been given to its problems. I want to comment not only on our primary industry but also its relationship to the world situation. I have said before in this House, and I repeat it, that one thing that causes me a deal of amazement is that in so many instances the people who are highly critical of assistance being given to the primary industries are the greatest supporters of tariff protection and other support for secondary industries. 
I do not object to support being given to secondary industry in Australia. 1 appreciate that there is a need in the development of Australia for secondary industries to be established. The members of my Party appreciate this and so we who are concerned in the main for primary industry are also aware that secondary industry provides one of the best markets for the products grown or produced by the primary producer. These people who criticise immediately there is any suggestion of support being given to primary industry fail to look at the complete picture. Some of the problems and difficulties of primary industry are created because of the attention that has to be given to the establishment of secondary industry. In saying that, I am not unmindful of the complexity of the situation. If unlimited assistance is provided, there is overproduction; the problem is not solved but, in many instances, is made more difficult. On the other hand this complexity also applies to secondary industry. The people who constantly say that this should not be done and that should not be done for the primary producer are great advocates for assistance to secondary industry. 
So far as efficiency is concerned, in any section of the community or in any group there are inefficient people. However, I would ask anybody who levels a charge of inefficency against primary producers to come to my electorate to see the degree of efficiency that has been attained in the primary industries there. A couple of weeks ago I attended a meeting of factory executives who were discussing methods of increasing efficiency in their industry. At meetings of farmers' organisations efficiency and ways of cutting down costs are two major considerations. These people realise that this is a means by which they can contribute to solving their own problems. And they are solving them. Because they are doing this I believe that the Federal Government should give them the assistance they really need. 
Another aspect to be considered is decentralisation. Primary industry - particularly the dairying industry in my electorate - is contributing to decentralisation. If we are to talk about decentralisation then we should give consideration to the industries and groups of people already in country areas. Let me develop this theme a little more. We have been told from a number of quarters that there is going to be a food problem for the world's population. One way by which we can contribute to solving this problem is by assisting to improve the standard of living in other countries so that the people there can buy the products of primary industry. If we are going to have a world food problem surely this is another reason why we should sustain our primary industries. If areas are lost to primary production then, as anyone who has had experience of this knows, they cannot be brought back into production overnight. It takes time to reestablish these industries. For these reasons I say that we should give careful consideration to the continuance of assistance to these industries. We do not suggest, and neither do the industries concerned, that such assistance should be given without consideration. This has been one of the dominating points made by the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr McEwen)  and by the Government. The Government will provide assistance in conjunction with and after consultation with the industry concerned. The reason is obvious. It is appreciated that people associated with the day to day problems and circumstances of the industry can supply the best advice because of their close relationship with it. It is wise to have consultation because there can be times when the person closely involved perhaps cannot see the wood for the trees. There is a continuing policy by this Government and my Party to work with industry for the development and progress of primary industry. 
I should like to comment now on the question of assistance from what I have on previous occasions called the major industrial countries. Sometimes the United States of America, the United Kingdom and some of the major European countries have failed to accept a responsibility or grasp an opportunity. It is in the world sphere that these major industrial countries can make a valuable contribution. I illustrate this by saying that there is not much value in giving an under developed country $20m financial assistance if the price of that country's exports declines on the world market and it loses, as a consequence, $10m in export earnings. This means that while the country has received a financial gift of $20m it has netted only $10m. To some extent there is, on occasion, resentment in a country that has received financial assistance, especially when the financial assistance has not been of real value. Then, of course, there is double resentment. This is a sphere of activity to which the major industrial countries must give further attention. 
I have criticised the United Nations on a number of occasions. As a political organisation there is a degree of futility in the United Nations. The great strength of the United Nations is in its agencies which have performed a tremendous task in the world in this 20th century. I believe it is through committees and organisations such as those within the United Nations that much of value can be achieved. For these reasons I would emphasise the need for assistance to be given to our primary producers and for assistance to be given in the field of decentralisation. We must do more to encourage decentralisation. Let us not talk about it but really do something. I do not suggest that we have not made any contribution towards decentralisation but in the next few years we must do more to establish people in country areas. 
I notice that the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten)  is seated at the table. I congratulate him on his announcement of the appointment of a Vietnam repatriation officer in each State. I regret that the announcement did not receive the publicity it deserved. The appointment follows the Minister's visit to wounded veterans of the war in Vietnam. Nothing but good can come from the appointment. In part the Press release relating to the appointment stated: 
Further, it would assist in countering their evident psychological impression that many Australians were taking their service for granted. 
If it achieves only that purpose the appointment will be of tremendous value, but 1 believe it will have even greater value. I congratulate the Minister on the step he has taken. I have been one of the strongest supporters of the Government's actions in Vietnam. Our sincerity will be measured by the way we treat returned servicemen from Vietnam after they have made their contribution to the safety and security of Australia. 

 I want to comment briefly on one or two other matters. I congratulate the Government on its recent announcement that the scope of the homes savings grant scheme would be extended, but I believe that the scheme should be investigated further. There is a problem posed when a young couple, for business or other reasons, is forced to build a home in an area where the price of land is extremely high. The price of the land is a major component in the total price of the home, which is restricted if the couple is to receive the 'benefits of the Government's $500 grant. In such circumstances the value of the home unit is often lower than would be the case if it were built on cheaper land in another area. I cannot see a way out of this problem but it is something which the Government might investigate with a view to ensuring that a prospective home owner is not denied the benefit of the grant because of the cost of the land upon which he proposes to build his home. 
We should examine carefully the activities of the Postmaster-General's Department. A telephone service, which is a necessity for country people, costs ten times as much in country areas as it does in a metropolitan area. In addition, metropolitan residents do not have the same urgent requirement for a telephone because so often there is a telephone available close by. In country areas the nearest telephone may be some distance away. I appreciate that things are being done. I appreciate what the PostmasterGeneral  (Mr Hulme)  has said about the cost of installing one telephone or delivering one letter, but if decentralisation is to work we must provide incentives through the auspices of the PostmasterGeneral's Department. For the same reason I still have doubts about the wisdom of increasing interest rates. My personal feeling is that increased interest rates do not necessarily damp down inflation. There is a danger that industries that might be described as not so necessary will be able to pay the higher interest rates and so all we will achieve is the channelling of money into those industries that are not of such vital importance to the country. The matter of interest rates must be examined, even if it means providing a differential rate of interest for primary industries and certain other pursuits. Perhaps the central bank might see whether it is possible to devise a graduated scale of interest rates for certain spheres of activity. A good deal has been said about local government. This is a problem that demands our attention. Properly handled, local government represents another avenue by which the Commonwealth can assist decentralisation. I am aware of the danger that the more control a central government gets the more centralised becomes ymir administration and therefore there is a greater danger of centralisation rather than decentralisation, but I still think it is necessary that these matters be examined so that we might encourage the dispersal of our population from the capital cities into the country areas rather than encourage the development of city areas into even greater areas and so create greater problems of centralisation. 
I wish to speak briefly about responsibility. We have heard a great deal about this gentleman Burchett and his right to receive a passport and do all the things he is entitled to do. A citizen has rights and privileges but surely he also has responsibilities. Many people in this country today speak about the rights and privileges of people but not enough people in Australia - I include many academics and clerics - speak about a person's responsibilities. We have a responsibility of citizenship. If what I might call the propaganda media of this country is to continue to enjoy the privilege of the freedom of the Press, radio and television, it must accept the other postulate which is the duty of the Press, radio and television - responsibility. I do not want to go over the ground already covered by the honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman)  and others, who gave the example of what has happened in Laos and drew attention to the lack of criticism from those who are only too willing to rush into print with statements about Vietnam. If we talk too much about rights and privileges and not enough about what goes with them we tend to weaken the fibre of this nation. Let us remember that the privilege of citizenship has been won for us by the sacrifice and service of many people. With that privilege goes the responsibility not to betray those who have made that sacrifice. So when we talk of the rights and privileges of people such as Burchett we must also emphasise the responsibility of citizenship and service which they owe to the community. [Quorum formed.] 
Before calling the honourable member for Blaxland 1 would remind the House that this is the honourable member's maiden speech. 
Order! 1 would suggest that the honourable member for Hughes has had enough experience in this Parliament, to know that he is getting a little wide of the Bill. The honourable member mentions certain things that are not dealt with in the Bill, but he cannot make a' speech on those. I would suggest that he take note of the provisions of the Bill. 
Retirement in Australia is still synonymous with charity and often with poverty. This Bill will not do much to alleviate the poverty that afflicts people who are suffering from illness and infirmity. Here in this legislation is the time honoured connotation of the dollar complex and the inevitable and mercenary relationship of social welfare legislation to a forthcoming election. I predict that we will have some other legislation between now and the Senate election and that it will not be of a serious nature.  M  we look at the history of social service legislation we see usually that some benefit is given not in the period following an election but in the period preceding an election. Usually nothing substantial is done in the 2 years immediately following an election. Apparently just enough will be done this year to prepare for the forthcoming Senate election. It is pretty unhappy for pensioners to recognise that they must wait until 1972 before something further will be done. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! 1 pointed out to the honourable member for Hughes only a few moments ago that this Bill does not give rise to a general debate on social service matters. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER  (Mr  Lucock)Order! As I have already pointed out to the honourable member for Hughes, this legislation does not allow a general debate on social services nor does it provide for a debate especially oh nursing homes. I will read the title of the Bill to the honourable member. It is: 
To amend the Social Services Act 1947-1969 in relation to certain Married Persons suffering Illness or Infirmity. 
I suggest to the honourable member for Hughes that he relate his remarks to the title of the Bill and the subject matter before the chair. 

Order! This is not a matter of tolerance from the Chair. It is a matter of the subject that is before the House. The honourable member for Hughes should remind himself of that, also. 
The effect of the means test on the proposals contained in the Bill have not been admitted by the Government or the Minister during this debate. When some single or married pensioners leave their homes to take accommodation in a nursing or rest home, they may not get any pension at all. That will be the result of the application of the provisions of the Social Services Act. Some may well get a reduction of their pension; some may lose their entitlement even to a part pension; they may lose the fringe benefits, including the pensioner medical service. The reason for this is that, as soon as the pensioner's home is vacated, its value is taken into account in assessing the rate of pension payable. In other words, the value of the home would be regarded in precisely the same way as if it were money in the bank. It seems to be implied in what the Minister has said and in the general theme of this debate that, because couples are required to separate through illness and therefore lose the economies of living together, they will be emancipated and assisted by this legislation. However, the fact is that in many instances when a pensioner couple leave their borne because of sickness their pension will be substantially cut or eliminated altogether. They will lose every consolation and comfort to which they may have been entitled for many years. 1 think this is a pertinent matter to raise when debating this legislation. As I understand it, if a couple with an income from superannuation of $20 a week had to leave a modest house valued at about $27,000, they would lose all their pension entitlement. Similarly a widowed pensioner with no income - I do not mean a lady who is receiving a widow's pension but a widowed age or invalid pensioner - would lose all pension entitlement if forced to vacate a home valued at about $25,000. These are not exceptional circumstances. Lots of people are in that situation. Together with other honourable members I have encountered that kind of case on many occasions. I believe that in cases like this, where the home is abandoned because of medical reasons or through the inability of a pensioner to care for himself or herself, the value of the vacated property should be disregarded altogether. But under the provisions of the Social Services Act there will be no amelioration at ali of the plight of the pensioners. In fact the likelihood is that their plight will be aggravated. 
I ask the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth):  Has he ever thought of the great benefit that would accrue to Australian pensioners who are separated because of sickness and who lose the economies of living together, if the Department of Social Services did not, as at present, take the value of their home into account so that it adversely affects their pension? Has this been considered in a compassionate and enlightened way so as to give these people exemption from these inhuman and stringent measures which, from my experience, cause difficulty, hardship and tremendous anxiety to large numbers of pensioners? 
The Government consistently has declined to eliminate the means test and that is one of the reasons why this problem emerges. If the means test had been eliminated, as proposed by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  during the last election campaign, the matter to which I have just referred would not be a problem today for aged people. The iniquitous means test currently is excluding 500,000 people of pensionable age from the pensions scheme. It has an effect on people who leave their homes because of sickness. 
This Bill will not bring any substantial alleviation to the problems of age married pensioners who are separated because of illness and inability to care for themselves. They may get an extra $1.75 a week through the provisions of this Bill but this will not enable them to meet the rising costs of nursing home care. In my view the Minister and the Government should look again at this matter. More importantly, the Government should recast Australia's social welfare provisions to lay a basis for the remaining years of the 20th century. Its aim should be that all our citizens may enjoy the security and peace of life that stems from the knowledge that in every eventuality the rights, well being and dignity of the frail, the sick and the aged will be upheld and properly safeguarded. 
ls leave granted for the second reading debate to continue forthwith? 
There is some substance in the points of order taken by both the honourable member for Lalor and the Minister for Labour and National Service. To a degree there was an element of irrelevance, if I may put it in that way, in the -speech made by the Leader of the Opposition and I suggest that this may also be so with the speech of the Minister for Labour and National Service. The suggestion I make is that irrelevant matters be kept to an absolute minimum. 
That the question be now put. 
Question resolved in the affirmative 
Original question, relating to the suspension of standing orders, resolved in the affirmative with the concurrence of an absolute majority. 

 Dr PATTERSON (Dawson) [8.20J-  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I rise to support the amendment that was moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  Before the sitting was suspended for dinner the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden)  gave every indication to the House that the Government would not agree to debate the censure motion moved by the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns).  In fact anyone who listened to the news broadcast by the Australian Broadcasting Commission tonight would know that it reported that the Minister for Labour and National Service had refused to accept the censure motion. J do not know what happened during the dinner adjournment but one thing is certain and that is that the attitude of the Minister has changed greatly during the last 2 hours. I am not certain of what happened to him. Perhaps the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  gave him some orders. But certainly there has been a complete reversal of form by the Minister, compared with what he said before the suspension of the sitting. 
Now,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  in view of the fact that the Government accepts that the Opposition has a case for a censure motion, it is my intention to devote my time to one of the provisions of that motion. I refer to the refusal of Ministers to report to the Parliament on the problems of production, marketing and reconstruction in primary industries. We heard a lot from the Minister for Labour and National Service, in defence of the Government, about measures taken by the Government to bring before the Parliament debates on primary industry. 
I have received a letter from the honour  able member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  proposing that a definite matter of public importance be submitted to the House for discussion, namely: 
The uncontrolled spiralling price of urban land particularly in all Australian capital and provincial cities. 
I call upon those members who approve of the proposed discussion to rise in their places. (More than the number of members required by the Standing Orders having risen in their places). 
Order! the honourable member for Sturt will resume his seat. I would suggest that the Committee come to order. The honourable member for Sturt will direct his remarks to the Bill before the Committee. . 
The Government could not have come down to a lesser figure unless one went back to the old depression days when people entering a church dropped a silver coin when entering. It is a disgrace. I do not know what procedures are open to honourable members on the Government side at this late hour seeing that we will be rising tonight for almost a fortnight. I do not know what measures are open to them but there must be some. Honourable members can sit in this chamber listening to all the debate that has been going on on this Bill and find that a person who has not been in the chamber for almost 6 hours can walk in and with a back of an axe attitude chop the debate completely off. Surely there must be some procedures open to honourable members of the Opposition. 
In supporting the legislation that is now before the House, 1 would like to congratulate the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  for introducing another social welfare measure. The Minister has emphasised that social welfare is not merely the handing of services to people. It is also- a matter of providing them with every possible assistance. That is why I disagree completely with the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins),  who said that we rely too much on charity. If I misunderstood him, 1 apologise to him. The more we use those people who are prepared to give their services to the community, the better everything will be for all concerned. I do not mean that we should try to. get something on the cheap. I believe that a community service gives far better value. As. I say, 1 congratulate the Minister for introducing this legislation and for showing that the Government intends to continue improving services in this field. 
I should like to read some comments made by the Minister in his second reading speech. He said: 
This Bill now before the House will carry the Prime Minister's proposal into effect The Meals on Wheels organisations throughout Australia are generally bodies enjoying a fair degree of local autonomy, but acting within a common framework and sharing a common objective. They deliver meals to the aged, the sick and the . lonely who live in their own homes and have the need of care and contact with outside life. 
One very important factor of the scheme is that it is bringing those people into contact with people outside. There is nothing worse than the loneliness of an aged person who is in a house on his own and does not receive very many visitors. I know that many of the people who receive the service of Meals on Wheels look forward not only to the meal being brought but also to contact with somebody with whom they can have an association. 
As in the case with the assistance given in aged persons homes this scheme is further evidence that the Government views the situation in the broader, wider and deeper sense of social service and not merely in the sense of financial assistance. 
Motion (by  Mr Snedden)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
Order! I suggest to the honourable member that this has nothing to do with the Bill. 
I wish to make reference to a few points concerning the Bill. I refer first to clause 3 which is 'Interpretation". I direct attention to the interpretation of 'an aged person', which reads:  aged person' means a man who has attained the age of 65 years or a woman who has attained the age of 60 years. 
We have talked around the question of pensions. Everyone, I believe, is under the impression that this Bill has been introduced predominantly to assist age, invalid and widow pensioners. They receive a mention later in the Bill. No consideration has been given to the service pensioner, who, as honourable members are aware, is entitled to a service pension at 60 years of age. 
I am certain that this is an oversight under 'Interpretation'. A serviceman with overseas service is entitled to apply for a service pension when he turns 60 years of age, whereas one who has not had overseas service has to wait until he is 65 years of age before he may apply for a pension. I ask the Minister to give serious consideration to reviewing this interpretation before the Bill is passed by another place and include in it service pensioners, that is, those men who are entitled to the age pension when they turn 60 years of age. The Minister knows what I am talking about, as do other honourable members. 
Also in clause 3 is a sub-paragraph dealing with delivered meal services. This states: delivered meal service' means a service for the provision, wholly or mainly for aged persons or invalid persons or both, of meals that are delivered from the place at which they are prepared to the homes of the persons for whom they are intended or to other places at which it is convenient for those persons to consume them. 
The Minister is doing a job in this case to provide some assistance to those people who are so keenly interested in Meals on Wheels services. My remarks now are in relation to aged and invalid people who are unable to leave their homes and who will be provided with at least one meal a day. 
In common with so many other honourable members, I have been interested in this project for many years, from the days when I was in local government. I know just what is involved. It is essential1 to give these people the benefit of a provision which will ensure that they have at least one decent meal a day. For many years, people in this category died of malnutrition because they were unable to get up, do their own cooking and provide their own meals. The objective of the Bill is to ensure for this class one decent meal a day, I know. What I would like the Minister to do is to give consideration to centres catering for pensioners or aged persons at which meals are provided also. 
I had the opportunity many years ago of making available one of these aged people's centres through the Newcastle City Council. The members of the Labor Party Women's Committee there set up everything. They determined what was to be supplied, established the standards of the meals, and went round to various organisations in Newcastle for the requirements. I give them credit for their work. I pay tribute to the manufacturers of Peter's ice cream, the fruit and vegetable markets and the butchers who provided the commodities for the meals, such as ice cream, vegetables and meat at reasonable prices. For instance, Peters helped by providing one free ice cream for every icecream that was purchased. Money had to be provided for the furnishing that was needed. I know that money can be used for this purpose under this legislation - or I hope it can be. 
I ask the Minister to extend the provisions of this Bill to that extent, having in mind the fact that this scheme will cost only a little over $200,00 a year. My friend and colleague, the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  drew attention to the fact that some $ 1,200m will be spent this year on defence. This scheme will cost about $220,000 per annum. According to the figures given in the Minister's second reading speech, based on the number of meals which were supplied last year, this service in its first year will cost $207,500. So, it would not be a terribly expensive experiment to extend the subsidy which will be paid beyond Meals on Wheels services so as to include those organisations which today man these centres and assist in providing meals for these pensioner centres. The centre in Newcastle which commenced in a new building there some years ago is an excellent one. The facilities are there. I hope it is not proposed that the meals have to be prepared somewhere else. They have their own kitchen and dining rooms and the meals can be prepared on the premises. I think this is a case which the Government can assist by way of subsidy so that this scheme can be extended further afield. 
We have to realise that it is essential to encourage aged people to go out as much as they can. When they go out to these centres not only do they get morning tea, lunch and afternoon tea; they have the opportunity to get together. They have their own forms of entertainment. They play cards and draughts. Entertainers visit the centres in the afternoons. In this way people are encouraged to get out of their homes. This is most important particularly for people getting on in years. They should be encouraged to go somewhere every Tuesday or Thursday - some day each week. Most of them like to go along to a centre to have a meal, to meet their old friends, to be entertained and at least to get out of the home. It is just as important to look after these people by encouraging them to go out as it is to provide meals for them under the Meals on Wheels scheme. I hope the Minister for Social Services will look into this matter. It is worthy of support and of development in the same way that the Government is assisting the Meals on Wheels organisations. It would not cost a great deal of money. 

Order! The honourable member is not allowed to make a speech or comment on the question. I ask him to direct his question to the Minister. 
) - Is the amendment seconded? 
Order! I would suggest to the honourable member for Riverina that he does not rehash the earlier debate and the speech that he made, or that somehow he was able to make in spite of the gag. 
I just want to continue and say that in terms of the events - not the debate because the events are what we are concerned about in the motion before the Chair - the amendment to be proposed by me came up here in duplicated form. Other copies were made of my amendment. The honourable member for Darling and I conferred and he said: We had better move this as quickly as we can'. The honourable member for Dawson had already made certain arrangements. He had jumped, I think the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  had jumped and I had jumped to get the call because 1 wanted to move the amendment. It docs not really matter, as you know,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  when one does this in Committee. It does not matter whether it is one honourable member or another, or whether there are 2 or 3 amendments. When the opportunity arises, an honourable member gets up and moves his amendment. There is no difficulty in doing this because the legislation is at a technical stage of consideration anyway. So I rose with my amendment in my hand and said:  'Mr Chairman,  I propose . . .'Of course, I did not get very far because not long after that the whole of the debate was gagged. 
This is a shocking incident in the lives of 26 new members of the Federal Parliament who came here to do a job. It is a terrible incident.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I am putting to you quite sincerely that this just is not good enough in the national Parliament. There are only 125 members here anyway. They represent every conceivable facet of the life of the nation. They come here in good will - I am sure of that - to serve. We all serve in our different ways; we all have quite different dedication. But surely to great goodness the opportunity to serve should be granted. I am going to say quite bluntly and definitely that the opportunities to serve have not been made available to us. A sense of shock has been felt by former members of assemblies and new members who have come from outside the parliamentary system on learning that the procedures have been so inadequate. 
The honourable member for Henty  (Mr Fox)  referred to a fourth rate local council. I am sorry that he has fourth rate local councils in his electorate. I have not. The councils in my electorate are all pretty good. 1 might say that when one joins a local council there are opportunities which are limited, and in some cases very limited, by standing orders. But the opportunities are there to enable one to put a point of view at a time but within the framework of the standing orders. This opportunity is certainly not deferred for months on end and then constricted by old, outworn traditions that seem to indicate a tiredness on the part of Government and Executive. Surely this is not good enough for an Australian in 1970. This Parliament should be the heart and soul of the nation. The heart and soul of  the  nation in these last 5 months has been dead,  Sir. Dead!  This is a terrible thing to say and it is an indictment of the system that has grown up  here 
I think the time has come for some reform. Certainly the time has come to protest. I do not think there was anyone on our side of the Parliament - certainly not the Leader of the Opposition - who wanted above all things to end the proceedings of the House; but I submit that the proceedings of the House had already been ended by the incredible decision to crush all opportunities for debate. This was the decision taken even on a technical matter. It just seems to me that this was a day of infamy, without rhyme or reason, based on capriciousness. One can understand this happening if there is force to be exercised in a ruthless way and in an efficient way. But one cannot understand - certainly we cannot understand - the use of force without rhyme or reason. 
This was the thing that hurt us all because we have not come here, as I have said, to fill in our time in meaningless rituals. We have not come here simply to make obeisances, to go through a charade and to go back to the  4  points of the compass in Australia to say: "Well, we were in Canberra'. When people ask: 'What was it like?' we have not come here to say: 'Well, the leaves are changing colour and the weather has been crisp in the mornings. The Hotel Kurrajong forgot my breakfast.' These are not important things. Are honourable members merely on a visit to Canberra? This is not really good enough at a time of great change in the nation, it is not really good enough at a time of great change in the world and at a time too when young Australians everywhere are asking for some kind of leadership and inspiration for the future. We come to Canberra and find that the opportunities for service are limited by rituals; they are limited by the lazily accepted traditions of yesteryear and then all of this is compounded by a dictatorship of the gag. It is a moment of sadness, and 1 think that the incidents of the last 24 hours should be a salutary lesson to everyone who is in this House tonight. 
J speak more in sorrow than in anger, because some of the things 1 have said 1 intended to present to the Parliament perhaps at an early opportunity. Goodness knows when that would have been. I would have hoped it would come. I would have said: Please let us have a look at this'. I would have made a plea and a protest. But tonight as a postscript to some of the fine addresses that have been made on behalf of freedom of expression in this national forum 1 can now say: 'Please let us consider these things; please not let us go home tomorrow and have as the most important thing we can say when we get home, " Well, there was a bit of an argument, you know, and the weather is still good " '. Let us all tonight take note of the great deficiencies of an institution which we all prize. It is irreplaceable. But, of course, if we do not cherish it and use it properly it will die. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Order! The honourable member for Oxley should cease interjecting. 
I accept that in this country many wellintentioned citizens are, for reasons in which they genuinely believe, opposed to Australian military involvement in support of the Government of South Vietnam. I accept that many of those citizens object in good faith to the present, or any, system of national service. They are fully entitled to express their opinions upon these great issues and fully entitled, if they can, to persuade others, including a majority of the electorate or of the Parliament, to their way of thinking. While I respect their right to express their dissent lawfully and peacefully, I do not share their views, indeed, I am completely opposed to them. But whether their opinions, as against those held and implemented by the Government, are opinions that ought to prevail, is, I believe, no part of the present question, which is a very different one. Primarily, it is whether the methods proposed or likely to be practised in this campaign for a change of the law and of Government policy are calculated to serve the public interest. 
In approaching this problem, one must first consider what conduct is permissible in a democratic society on the part of those who wish to see a change in Government policy or a change in the law. One must then ask whether those responsible for organising, and those who have consented to participate in, the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign really have it in mind to contain the Campaign within permissible limits. In a parliamentary democracy, any attempt to change the law should be made within the framework of the law. Any other path to  change is potentially anarchical. If men are given an effective means of attempting by 1 peaceful processes to secure majority acceptance of their political views, anyone with a concern for the preservation of true freedom should see to it that those means are used to the exclusion of others. Otherwise the rule of law may cease to be part of our way of life. 
This principle, applying as it does to all citizens, applies with special force to members of parliament. Members have special opportunities, which are not available to all  citizens, to advocate, in proper constitututional form, changes both in Government  policy and in the law. Correspondingly, they t have a special responsibility to ensure that efforts to secure changes in law or policy are directed along proper channels or at the least along peaceful lines. This special responsibility is underlined by the fact that each of us - the members of this House - take an oath of allegiance or its equivalent upon taking a seat in this place. To be in parliamentary opposition to a democratically elected government must at times be galling and frustrating. But this affords no excuse for resorting to, or encouraging, activities, based simply on the naked physical power of a mob, designed to force or embarrass a government into taking steps in conflict with the policies upon which that government secured a mandate to govern. Such an illicit and dangerous abuse of power must have no place in our national life. 
The honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  is prominent in the activities of the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign. On 18th December last, when he held office as Acting  Chairman  of its Victorian organising committee, he wrote me a letter which, if it establishes nothing else to his credit, shows at least that he is a practising optimist. He sought my support for the Campaign. I have the letter here. I will table it if honourable members would like to see it. He asserted that 75 members of the Federal Parliament had signed statements sponsoring it. In this letter, which I believe was a circular, the honourable member asserted that on 'the recent Moratorium Days' in the United States, vast numbers of Americans had taken part in a series of dramatic, peaceful events calling for an end to the war'. The publicly reported facts are that, in the course of the Vietnam Moratorium Demonstration held in Washington on 15th November last, more than 100 people were injured and demonstrators, by looting and other forms of violence, did extensive damage to private and government property. 
The honourable member's departure from the facts on this point cannot but detract from his reputation - the more so as he is given to claiming an intimate knowledge of the subjects with which he has dealt in this House. But I feel bound to emphasize this departure in order that the methods of persuasion adopted by the honourable member and by the promoters of this Campaign should be widely known for what they are - utterly devoid of candour. I must next refer to an example of gross dishonesty to be found in a full page advertisement inserted in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' of 11th April by those sponsoring the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign in New South 
Wales. Part of the text asserts that certain persons, including one dressed in clerical garb, whose photograph appears in the advertisement, are 'average Australians' who 'can't condone the war crimes committed in our name'. The clear, and wickedly false, meaning of these words is that Australian servicemen in Vietnam are committing war crimes. Perhaps some of the many members of the Opposition who are sponsors of this Campaign will tell us whether they agree in that allegation. There are many members in that position on the other side of the House this afternoon. As well as the honourable member for Lalor, there are other political activists running and supporting the campaign. They include an assorted collection of Communists, Communist-sympathisers, Trotskyites and anarchists. 
The Communist Party of Australia is heavily involved in the Campaign. No doubt, its degeneration into violence would not be anathema to it. The participation of the Communist Party of Australia and other extremist groups in the Campaign deserves attention; for it is with such people and, by necessary inference, their proposed methods of operation that 75 members of the Parliamentary Labor Party will be in league if, in the light of current developments, they do not recant. Unless they do, we shall gain a sharpened appreciation of the significance of the words used by the honourable member for Lalor in 1964, when writing in a publication called Dissent', he said of his Party: 'We are situated in the political spectrum next to the Communists and they will stand for many things for which we also stand'. 'We' means the Australian Labor Party. He continued: 'We cannot therefore oppose those things. Because of our position in the political spectrum we will find ourselves in the same place as Communists on some occasions, doing the same things for the same ends'. 
The question which is of paramount importance to the Government and to all responsible people in the community is whether a campaign along the lines proposed by the organisers of the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign can in truth be conducted without violence. Some wellintentioned peace activists have become discouraged from lending their support following the Campaign organisers' failure to obtain the official endorsement of the Federal Executive of the Labor Party or the official backing of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. The waning support of non-Communist activists has led to tightened control by Communists, Trotskyites and irresponsible elements. All this can only increase the risk of violence. The honourable member for Lalor has admitted this risk; he has said that he 'cannot guarantee non-violence'. He should know. 
On 1st February last a public meeting of friends and supporters of the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign was held in the Richmond Town Hall under the Chairmanship of the honourable member for Lalor. At this meeting,  Mr Arthur  Robert Quinn, described as an executive member of the co-ordinating committee, is reported as having moved a resolution to delete from the statement of the aims of the Campaign the condition that 'all actions taken be of a peaceful, non-violent nature'. That was the condition which this gentleman moved to delete from the charter of the campaign. That motion was carried. The implications of that resolution need little elaboration; but according to the Melbourne 'Sun' of 2nd February, the mover said that the taking over of the Melbourne streets would be a form of violence. 1 agree with him. Another  speaker  - that is, another  speaker  at this meeting chaired by the honourable member for Lalor held at the Richmond Town Hall - described the stoning by demonstrators of the United Slates Consulate-General in Melbourne in July 1968 as 'an effective form of protest'. For proposing that the condition forbidding violence should be retained,  Mr John  Ryan, Editor of the 'Catholic Worker', a  Melbourne publication, was derided by loud heckling. All I can say is that - as we know it to be a fact that the honourable member for Lalor was the  chairman  of that meeting - any  chairman,  being a member of Parliament with even a minimal sense of responsibility, when that motion was proposed and the approving reference made to the stoning of the United States Consulate-General in Melbourne would then and there have left the chair and closed the meeting. 
I referred earlier to the honourable member's claim that 75 members of the Federal Parliamentary Labor Party have publicly supported the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign. 1 believe, however, that the following members of the Opposition side of this House, have not done so: the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard),  and the honourable members for Darling  (Mr Fitzpatrick),  Macquarie  (Mr Luchetti),  Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones),  Prospect  (Dr Klugman),  Fremantle  (Mr Beazley),  Perth  (Mr Berinson)  and Braddon  (Mr Davies).  It is a short roll, but at least it perhaps represents those in the Labor Party with some sense of responsibility. They are in a very small minority. While their good judgment is commendable, their separation from the majority of their colleagues disposes of any suggestion that the Parliamentary Opposition is a united and happy band of brothers. In recent years we have witnessed in this country the appearance of a variety of radical dissident groups. These groups are entitled to their radicalism and to their dissent. But their activities have in many cases been militant to the point of violence. In the past, organisers of relatively small protest marches and demonstrations have been unable, even when they wished to do so, to exclude or control those extremist minorities whose methods of operation are repugnant to all decent citizens. 
We should not forget the riots in Melbourne on 4th July 1968 and 4th July 1969, when the United States Consulate-General was the target of extremist violence. In those riots 31 people were injured and 88 arrested. There is no evidence that the organisers of the Campaign will be able to maintain control of all those who intend to participate. There is positive evidence that certain persons prominent in the Campaign, including the honourable member for Lalor, are encouraging action which they must know is calculated to lead to serious breaches of the peace. Each member of the Parliamentary Labour Party who has sponsored the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign now has in my judgment a great decision to make. Will he continue to sponsor the Campaign or will he now withdraw his support? In making his decision he will inevitably disclose his attitude to violent protest. But there is another member of this House who ought to speak. The Leader of the Opposition, my honourable friend sitting at the table, has a public duty to denounce the methods of campaigning proposed by the honourable member for Lalor and their undoubted potential for violence. I ask whether he will perform it. This is no time for the Leader of the Opposition to sit on the fence. He has not said anything yet. I hope we hear from him tonight in terms of outright denunciation of the methods to be used in this Campaign. For it is a time for anyone who believes in the rule of law to speak out in its defence. I am charitable enough to believe that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, leaving aside the events of last week, has some respect for the rule of law. 
It is the belief of the Government that the people as a whole will reject the dangerous invitation to violence and lawlessness that I have described. They will reject it because these things are repugnant to all the traditions and standards that Australians respect and wish to see preserved. 1 present the following paper - 
Vietnam Moratorium Campaign - Ministerial Statement, 14 April 1970. and move: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
Order! There is no cause to take a point of order. The canvassing of a previous debate of the session - and I have ruled in this way before - is in order. 
 I direct a question to the Minister for National Development who represents the Acting Minister for External Affairs. I preface it by saying that the Minister will recall1 statements and comments made in regard to wheat sales to Rhodesia. In the light of events in the political scene I ask: Has he any information that he can give to the House on this subject? 
Order! No point of order arises. The honourable member for Oxley will resume his seat. 1 call the Minister for Health. 
It is not surprising also in these circumstances that the States should desire time to consider their position, both individually and collectively. This was the outcome of the 1969 conference of Health Ministers. All Ministers at that conference agreed that we should meet and that Commonwealth and State officials should meet when we and they were ready. The States wished to consider their position in relation to the recommendations of the Nimmo Committee. We wanted to consider our position. The States wanted to discuss amongst themselves, when they considered their individual position, where they stood. That was done. In the natural course of events, a meeting took place, as I mentioned in reply to a question from the honourable member for Oxley, on 2nd April of this year. These meetings will continue. 
Thirdly, in relation to recommendations of this type, the attitudes of the States are very much influenced by the position of Commonwealth-State financial relations as a whole. It would be surprising - indeed, it would be irresponsible - if decisions were taken on recommendations of the type made by the Nimmo Committee before negotiations in relation to the new financial arrangements between the Commonwealth and the States were commenced and conducted in June as is proposed. Indeed, this very much affects the attitudes of the States to recommendations of the type made by the Nimmo Committee. Finally - and this is vitally important - the States themselves to my knowledge have not asked at any time, with one exception, for direct Commonwealth financial assistance for their hospital systems. The one exception is in relation to the amount that the Commonwealth pays for the hospitalising of pensioner patients. We pay $5 per day. The States would like us to pay more. This is the subject of one of the recommendations of the Nimmo Committee. 
The honourable member for Oxley completely misrepresented the position in respect of the assistance that the Commonwealth has been giving on a continuing basis to the State hospitals systems. He misrepresented lt because he referred only to the $2 per day Commonwealth benefit from the insurance system. In fact, this is only one element in the assistance that flows to the State hospitals system from the Commonwealth through the insurance scheme and by more direct methods. So much so that 1 am able to inform the House that the Australian hospital system has benefited as a result of the action of the Commonwealth in this respect by no fewer than S183m in 1968-69 which is an increase from the $69m spent in .1960-61. In addition to that, under the pharmaceutical benefits scheme the States benefited in 1968-69 by SI 7m. This is not inconsiderable. It represents a very different picture from that painted by the honourable member for Oxley. 
I want to make this point: Even in the last couple of years while we have been considering the recommendations of the Nimmo Committee we have introduced new proposals which have benefited greatly the funds which have flowed to the State hospitals systems. I refer to such things as the long term hospitalisation proposals, the increase in our payment for pensioner patients from $3.50 a day to $5, the subsidised hospitalisation scheme, and the intensive care benefit for nursing homes which has reduced the strain on hospital beds. Finally, this matter of urgency is indicative to me of the innate desire of the Labor Party to ride roughshod over the responsibilities of the States. It indicates .the willingness of the Labor Party to rush into ill considered proposals, as it did in office when it coerced the States into making arrangements which meant that patients could not get a hospital bed. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
The honourable member's time has expired. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. Is the amendment seconded? 
 I want to speak in support of the legislation presented by the Government and to oppose the amendment moved by the Opposition. In doing that, I must confess that there are one or two matters in this National Health Bill about which I have some doubt and some query as to their success. I realise the complex nature of this legislation. When one looks at the Bill one gets an appreciation of the tremendous task in trying to bring forward to the Parliament the legislation we are considering. I have had discussions with members of the medical profession in my own electorate and, as we all know, we have received a volume of correspondence and comment from many sections of the medical profession, which I think shows that there is a great de.al of confusion about this legislation. If one looks at some of the recommendations and suggestions that have been put forward by the medical profession one realises that there is some contradiction even within the profession. However, following the establishment of the Nimmo Committee and what is now known as the Nimmo report', it was obvious that the Government had to take steps to improve our national health scheme. 
I am sure that anybody who listened this afternoon to the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  leading for the Opposition in the debate on this piece of legislation would, from the moment that the honourable member for Oxley finished, have been more confused than previously as to what the Australian Labor Party's policy on health was, and I am sure that they would have nothing to do with any of the suggestions or ideas of the Opposition on this Health Bill. Even though I disagree with 1 or 2 things in this Bill, I congratulate the Minister on the task that he has performed and on the fact that he has made himself available to have discussions with various groups of people who are concerned with health matters. 
The honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  this afternoon pointed out one of the difficulties and one of the complexities of the Bill. I would like to congratulate him on the speech he made. I thought it was a very well thought out and logical presentation of some of the facts and some of the complexities of this legislation. He pointed out some of the difficulties, particularly in relation to the benefits that are received by various sections in the community. In fact, the concluding portions of the second reading speech of the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes),  when he mentioned the position of low income families, bring home to us some of these problems. He said: 
As a result of the increase in the Commonwealth minimum weekly wage in December 1969 it is proposed to increase the eligibility level for full health insurance for low income families to $42.50 per week. The Bill also provides for graduated assistance toward the cost of contributing for health insurance to families with weekly incomes not exceeding $48.50. 
In future, families with incomes of up to $42.50 per week will be entitled to full medical benefits and also to hospital benefits equal to the cost of public ward treatment without any payment of contributions. Families with incomes between $42.50 per week and $45.50 per week will be eligible for the same benefits on payment  of contributions at one-third the usual rates, while families with incomes between $45.50 and $48.50 per week will be eligible for the benefits on payment of contributions at two-thirds the usual rate. 
An appreciation of the area covered in this legislation and the number of people who have to be considered in any scheme such as this comes from this paragraph: 
It is estimated that some 84,000 families and 271,000 persons will be eligible for assistance, because of the extension of the assistance, and that the additional cost in a full year will be $3m. 
This highlights one of the complexities of this piece of legislation. I think that some investigation should be made and that some consideration will have to be given to the group beyond this who are below the high income earning capacity to see whether assistance can be given to them. One proposition that we of the Liberal-Country Party Government have always put forward is that people should be prepared to accept some responsibility themselves where it is possible for them to accept that responsibility. That is why the Minister in his second reading speech mentioned assistance to those in the low income group. 1 believe that 1 of the weaknesses in the national health scheme in the United Kingdom has been shown to be the fact that there is literally no responsibility on the people. They might say: "We pay taxation, therefore to this degree we are contributing to the scheme'. But I believe that in any contributory national health scheme there should be an acceptance of a degree of responsibility by some of those who are receiving the benefit. The honourable member for Oxley, of course, mentioned that if the Labor Party scheme were put into operation the doctors would receive a greater remuneration than they would receive under the present Government scheme. This was a rather peculiar statement because much of the criticism by the Opposition of the medical profession has been based on the argument that they are receiving too great a remuneration. 
The honourable member for Isaacs also mentioned the necessity for reviewing the fee charged. This is, perhaps, an area in which there is a degree of concern in the medical profession. I think we can say without any hesitation that the concern of members of the medical profession is not  a  concern for their own financial position, for their remuneration. I suppose in any profession one would find some people who are more concerned with the financial return than with the care of their patients. But in the very large majority of cases the concern of the medical profession is that the health scheme work for the maximum benefit of the patient. 
There is general agreement on the principle of a common fee. Perhaps one can work from this foundation. There is concern about the gap between the costs of the specialists and the costs of the general practitioner. It is also felt in some quarters that this gap could be reduced by increasing the rebate and 1 think there is a point there. The list of the most common fees is an important factor and it must be used as a basis for rebates and for contributions. But it must also be subject to periodic revision. 1 would say that possibly every 3 years the need would arise for the list to be reviewed. An example of what can happen can be seen in the extension of the pensioner medical scheme. When this scheme was first brought into being some little while ago there was a certain restriction upon those who were receiving the benefits of it. Then as the Government brought forward amendments and brought other groups within the framework of the scheme, it was extended to cover a far greater number of people. I feel that there is a need to examine the relation between the payment under this scheme and the attention given by the doctors to see whether there should be some alteration. 1 would also use that as an example of what can happen when an agreement is reached in relation to a scheme and then by legislation that scheme is altered and improved. Those who agreed to participate in the first place are in some instances penalised because there is no review of their remuneration in the new circumstances as against the situation that existed when the scheme was first brought into being. One of my worries is that if this disparity develops to too great a degree the general practitioner will disappear from the scene. There are 2 factors which could contribute to this. One is that so many cases would be referred to specialists that there would almost be no need for the general practitioner, except as a person who would refer a patient to a specialist. The other is that  those entering the medical profession might feel that in the circumstances they should study to be specialists and not go through the period of being a general practitioner. This would be detrimental both to the patients and to the profession. To my mind it would be of greater detriment in the country areas where specialist treatment is not always available. 
The general practitioner has a tremendously important part to play not only in relation to the physical welfare but also the psychological welfare of the patients. This is a very important part of the medical profession. Those of us who have had any experience at all know the tremendous valueof a general practitioner, the old family doctor. That doctor is a very important person to the family not only in providing medical care but also in providing assistance to the family in many other ways. As I said, those of us who have had any experience of this relationship realise the tremendous value of the family doctor to family life. If this were to be lost, asI said, it would be of great detriment not only to the medical profession itself but also to the community at large. 
The other matterI wish to mention is that if we follow this to its logical conclusion we will see that because so many people are being referred to specialists by the general practitioner the specialist will lose his value. The extent of a specialist's practice is limited and he has more time to devote to the study of his particular speciality and to keep himself up to date with those matters that are of vital importance to him as a specialist. If, by the fact of so many people being referred to him, he has to participate in surgery or even in the examination of patients who in the normal course of events would not be under his care, to this degree we are in danger of weakening the position of the specialist. I do not want to go into greater detail on the matter of funds or any other aspect because these have been covered and will be covered by some of my colleagues on this side of the House when they make their contribution to the debate on this legislation. Those are general comments thatI wish to make in relation to this legislation. 
The Government has been criticised because all the recommendations of the 
Nimmo Committee have not been followed. Because a government appoints a committee or asks a committee to investigate a particular matter, it does not mean that the government has to accept any or all of the recommendations of the committee. The purpose for that committee is to investigate certain circumstances related to the subject matter that it has been given the authority to investigate. The Government has an understanding and an appreciation of the total position. This is not necessarily held by the committee which has been making the investigation. The Government must always retain the right to accept or reject all or any of the recommendations made by the committee. I would anticipate in any particular sphere that a government would be mindful of the knowledge of the men who have been on that committee, whatever the subject matter may have been that it was investigating. It would also accept the full responsibility for ultimately making a decision and putting that decision into legislation. 
As I said, I support the legislation presented by the Minister. I have some doubts, which I have expressed, relating to some of the matters.I appreciate that until the legislation has become effective and is in practice there cannot be a certainty in relation to some of the queries and doubts that we might have. To that degree I am glad to know that the Minister has said that it after a period of time it can be proved that anomalies exist in the legislation he will certainly take steps to eradicate them. 
Before the end of the year, as my colleague the honourable member for Calare points out. I am sure that, the doctors having presented their point of view, the Government will have the support of the medical profession and that further discussion with them on the legislation will be of benefit to both the medical profession and the people of Australia. 
Is the amendment seconded? 
-! apologise to the House for speaking at this late hour but I do not apologise for the subject matter that I wish to discuss. The reason I want to raise this matter at this stage is that I have been concerned a great deal recently by some of the comments that have been broadcast by the mass media and by comments that have been made by some of our international affairs commentators. Basically the suggestion that has been put forward by a number of these people is that the only reason for the appointment by the Government of a group of people to consider the matter of Communism and the danger of Communism has been to assist the Government to win an election. If we follow that argument to its logical conclusion we find what it really means. What these people are saying is that there is no danger, that Communism is not a threat, and that we in Australia are not faced with some testing days in the future history of our country. Unfortunately, many of the things that have been put forward become in certain circumstances a comfort to the enemies of this country. 
I want to put forward a few thoughts in this regard. I refer particularly to some of the protests that have been carried on and the attitude of some of the people. As has been said on many occasions, no-one would deny the right of the individual to put forward his point of view. One of the things that has amazed me in all of the protests, in all of the objections and in ali of the criticism, is that while there has been this criticism of the United States of America and Australia there has been no criticism and no comment in relation to our enemies. A glaring example of that is the latest moves in Cambodia. I remind honourable members and other people in Australia that on the many occasions President Johnson made concessions to North Vietnam, the North Vietnamese demanded more. They refused to accept any of the responsibility that was theirs. I also remind honourable members that not so long ago a gentleman returned to his country after having made concessions to an enemy. He waved a piece of paper and said: 'Peace in our time.' We could have had peace provided that we were prepared constantly to give way. 
I suggest that some of the protesters and some of the people who deliberately or unwittingly give help to our enemy might consider that they are costing the lives of soldiers in this Vietnam struggle. They talk sometimes about a corrupt Vietnam regime. There are protests in South Vietnam. There has been criticism of the Government in South Vietnam by the South Vietnamese. Has there been any criticism in Hanoi of the Government of North Vietnam? No,  Sir. If  there was criticism from that quarter, the critics would not be alive for very long. One can see that if this proposition were followed to its logical conclusion it would become quite ridiculous. I noticed a Press report of a statement by an Anglican bishop in England that he felt people should pray for rain so that it would stop the tour of the South African cricket team. Fortunately that opinion would be held by only a very small minority. But what a ghastly conception that bishop must have of God as the divine creator whom he is supposed to serve. One might say with equal logic that the good Lord was opposed to the holding of the Moratorium assembly in Canberra today because rain fell on the people assembled in front of Parliament House. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  said at one time that Sihanouk remained neutral. What kind of neutrality was Sihanouk's at that time and what was the position of Cambodia under his rule and authority? It was a neutrality that assisted the enemies of this country. It was a neutrality that cost the lives of United States servicemen and perhaps even of Australian servicemen. It was a neutrality that would last only as long as it suited the Communists. I think we should give that some consideration. 
People talk about peace and how they want it. Everybody on this side of the chamber and everybody who supports our troops in South Vietnam and the move by United States troops into Cambodia desires peace, but there must be agreement between both s:des before peace can be attained. Any action that we take that gives the impression that we are weakening in our stand serves as encouragement to those people who desire peace on the terms of complete surrender of the West. Deaths on the battlefields are tragic. The sympathy of all of us is with the people in the United States, Australia and other countries who have lost members of their families in the battle in Vietnam. But it is necessary for us to remember that tragic as those deaths are, by one death today we may be saving  10  or 100 deaths in 5 years time. As I have said, there is no monopoly of a desire for peace amongst those people who are protesting. 1 do not wish to labour the point. I appreciate that some honourable members opposite were in the Services during World War II, as were some Government supporters. I have in mind the Prime Min ster  (Mr Gorton),  the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz),  my colleague the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull),  who is the Country Party Whip, and others. Can anybody honestly say that these men do not want peace? Does anyone believe that these men would want to sacrifice lives unnecessarily? We want peace but we believe that we have a responsibility to ensure that the peace we gain is lasting and worhtwile and is not obtained through the scrifice of everything we hold dear and in which we believe. 
We need to hold in Australia a firm conviction so that we can let the people of South East Asia know where we stand. The United States and United Kingdom governments are pulling out of the Pacific region. The United States is withdrawing in some of its spheres of influence. In that situation we in Australia will be called upon to accept greater responsibility in the region. We must show the people of Asia that we are prepared to stand with them and not to settle for peace at any price particularly through the sacrifice of their lives. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Banard)  said last night that there was peace in Cambodia and now that country is torn by war. I pointed out the fallacy of this view when I was commenting on the neutrality of Sihanouk. I remind honourable members that Winston Churchill was labelled by many as a warmonger and received vicious criticism every time he stood up to warn the United Kingdom and the people of the world of the danger of those times. That man was called a warmonger every time he warned people of the dangers. I point out that when the world was at its darkest hour he was the man who led them through with his courage, his faith and the beliefs that he had held and presented all the time. At this time we face dangers and difficulties. I suggest that the editors of our leading newspapers, the international commentators and people who have responsibility as well as privilege should give serious consideration to the things that are facing this country. They should not just think that they have all the answers and that they are completely and absolutely right. 
Order! There is no substance to the point of order. The practice is for the House to resolve itself into Committee at this stage. The Minister has moved that progress be reported. That motion cannot be debated. 
Order! The honourable member for Grayndler cast a reflection on the honourable member for Boothby and I would ask him to withdraw it. 
What a disreputable and contemptible thing that is for a man who calls himself a democrat. He stands here and opposes people and labels them as part of a fifth column - people who have the courage to stand up to the type of opposition that honourable members opposite put on, with the police and the baton and the boot to keep people from expressing their dissent. These are the policies he says are better than ours. South Africa and Rhodesia seek to abolish the monarchy. Did the honourable member for Boothby, an anarchist, supporting Rhodesia, attend a function for  Her  Majesty the Queen? I suppose he would like the honourable member for Chisholm  (Sir Wilfrid Kent Hughes)  to be the  president  of the new Australian republic with all these suppressive laws. 
Let the honourable member for Boothby get up and admit or deny that that is the policy he supports for Australia. He said he had brought back legislation to introduce into this Parliament. He was going to prepare a private member's Bill. I challenge him to stand in this Parliament, introduce that legislation and show whether he believes in what he said and whether he is a full supporter of democracy or a straight out supporter of Fascist causes and all they stand for. I regret I have to say these things but far be it from me to sit in this Parliament and hear Labor members, good Australians, church men and other prominent citizens attacked by this honourable member who in every way is espousing the cause of Fascism, in fighting which countless thousands of men died in the last great conflict. Therefore I hope the honourable member will rise again some time and speak on these matters because, like all democrats, I do not want to see Fascism. I do not want to see suppression without trial. My forebears fought against it for generations and the Labor Party and other organisations were moulded to fight against it. That is why today I place on record my opposition to the statements of the honourable member for Boothby. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 Mr McLEAY (Boothby) - I claim to have been misrepresented by the larrikin from Grayndler. 
The honourable member for Reid will cease interjecting. 
-Order! I have warned the honourable member for Reid about interjecting. Because of the circumstances of this debate I would be reluctant to name the honourable member, but I would suggest that the honourable member should not continue to interject. 
The objectives of the Moratorium are well known. The objectives are the withdrawal of allied troops from South Vietnam and an end to national service in Australia. These policies are supported by 2 political parties - the Australian Labor Party and the Communist Party. Communists, I am advised, are on the Moratorium steering committees in each State and they have been named outside this Parliament. It should be noted that a few days ago the Leader of the Opposition put up a smoke screen concerning unity tickets. He went to court and alleged that a Communist was using a photograph of him to try to gain additional support in a union election. By this means the Leader of the Opposition no doubt sought to convey the view that he was opposed to unity tickets with the Communist Party. But he and every member of the Labor Party in this House are condoning the greatest unity of all - the unity of the Australian Labor Party and the Communist Parry on the Moratorium Campaign, lt is a unity for which they should be thoroughly ashamed and a unity which I believed we would never see in this Parliament. 
The foreign policy of the Communist Party has always been that Australia is wrong, that the United States is wrong, that our friends are wrong, and that our enemies are always right. The Communist Party has never had any other view. It said that the second world war was wrong until Russia was attacked and then it suddenly became a just war according to that section of the Australian Labor Party which gave the then Prime Minister, John Curtin, a great deal of trouble in maintaining the unity of his Party and the Australian people in support of the war. The attitudes are still the same, but now the Australian Labor Party is identified with the same policies and with the same causes, namely, that Australia is wrong, that the United States is wrong, that South Vietnam is wrong, and that the totalitarian regimes of Hanoi. Peking and the Soviet Union are right. If the members of the Australian Labor Party believe it is a proud day for them to have this kind of unity with those who have supported the causes of Australia's enemies, it is not a pride which we would want to share on this side of the House. 
The logic of everything that the Australian Labor Party has said about IndoChina would lead to an enemy victory, and it always would have. Not only should they be prepared to stand up and advocate these policies if that is what they believe in, but they should also be prepared to say that this is what they want, because it is the logical conclusion of their policies as they have advocated them over a very long period of time. I would like to quote something that the honourable member for Lalor said in this Parliament in 1966. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)The right honourable member for Melbourne is correct. 
What will happen if negotiations come and a ceasefire and some settlement are reached and the National Liberation Front then has a big share of power in South Vietnam? Certainly the National Liberation Front would then be powerful in South Vietnam, but so too must some religious and regional groups or there can be no negotiations. In such a situation, some of those who fought the Vietcong and some minorities who had done nothing wrong would certainly suffer. But suffering is inevitable whatever happens in Vietnam. Escalated war will kill many tens of thousands. Tt will maim many people and destroy the freedom of even more. A settlement would lead to the killing of many and would destroy the freedom of many. 
By reading all of that speech it becomes quite clear that the honourable member for Lalor is prepared to accept the killing of many and the destruction of the freedom of many if it will lead to a northern Communist victory, but he is not prepared to accept the same terms and the same toll of human life if it is to lead to an independent South Vietnam. This is an advocacy of the honourable member for Lalor in this House that I find very difficult to understand. These attitudes are typical of those attitudes which have been expressed by members of the Labor Party on many occasions. This was the attitude of some members of the Labor Party in 1939 who gave the then Prime Minister, John Curtin, trouble in maintaining unity in his Party. It was their attitude that the war was wrong until Russia was attacked by Germany. In the emergency in Malaya in the 1950s the very some charges that have been made on many occasions about South Vietnam were made about the emerging independent Malaya. Of course, these charges have been repeated about South Vietnam. 
I think it should be noted that the war in Vietnam has always been more difficult to understand and therefore always more capable of confusion by Australia's enemies - by those who want to defeat the purpose which is in Australia's best interests. This confusion of purpose and confusion about what has been happening in Vietnam has arisen out of the nature of the conflict. The Communists learnt in Korea that if ever again they amassed armies and moved across a border at one stroke they would bring the wrath and the power of the free world upon them. So they tried a different kind of tactic. They tried a war of national liberation, a war in which they dribbled a few people over the border at a time. There was never an army marching across a border. It was a war that was aimed at the heart of a country. As the  Deputy  Prime Minister said, it is a war aimed at the security of those who might be leaders in the country at the national or at the local village level. It tries to undermine the structure of the country to demonstrate that the national government cannot offer and cannot afford security. This is an insidious and evil form of aggression but it is nonetheless aggression although its nature has changed. 
As the years have passed these beginnings of aggression have developed into aggression of a more conventional kind. Divisions of North Vietnamese troops have infiltrated down the trails and across the borders into South Vietnam. Despite this, despite the enormous difficulties and the great costs in casualties and despite the tactics which have always been very difficult to combat in Vietnam, there have been significant changes in recent years. There have been a number of nationwide elections; but there has been no free nationwide election in North Vietnam or in any Communist country. There has been great military progress in the performance of the South Vietnamese Army. It has assumed greater and greater responsibility for its own defence as each year has passed. There has been progress in the civil field with greater production of the basic commodities. There has been an increase in rice production despite the war. Given time I believe the tactics and purposes of fighting for the independence and the right of the Vietnamese to determine their own future will succeed. 
The policy of the Moratorium and the policy of the Australian Labor Party is to see that that time will not arrive for the people of South Vietnam and to see that there will be such an immediate withdrawal that inevitably they wiN not be able to continue on their own account. In that event, a northern Communist victory would be assured. Did we ever see the aggression in Malaya condemned by spokesmen for the Labor Party? I can remember that efforts to combat that aggression and insurgency were condemned by the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  and other honourable members. But has the aggression or insurgency of North Vietnam, which is supported by China and Russia, not only against South Vietnam but also against Laos and Cambodia, ever been condemned by the Australian Labor Party? Is it necessary for the Communists to be our allies before we will gain the support of the Australian Labor Party in a great national purpose for Australia, in which Australia's national interests and future security are closely interwoven? 
During a debate on Cambodia the honourable member for Bass  (Mr Barnard),  who is  Deputy  Leader of the Labor Party, leading for the Opposition, condemned the violation by the United States of America of Cambodian neutrality. He said that this was a country formerly untouched and not embroiled in the war. Is he entirely ignorant of the use that the Vietcong and the North Vietnamese have made of Cambodian territory over the last several years? Is he ignorant of the sanctuaries that have inevitably led to greater casualties of South Vietnamese and other allied forces? But now the condemnation comes hurriedly when  President  Nixon, in a courageous act, has taken steps to see that those sanctuaries will not be available in the future. There are only 2 logical explanations for the policy of the 
Australian Labor Party. The first is that it wants the North to win. if Opposition members want a Communist victory they should have the courage to say that that would be the result of their policies. 

As I understood the Minister, he did not say what the honourable member for Reid cla:ms. The Minister for Defence said, as 1 understood him, that there are 2 factors, either 1 or another. I think in that regard there is no substance in the point of order. 
The same lack of resolution has been shown and exhibited by the Labor Party. 1 believe that is the only charitable explanation that is available for the policies that our political opponents in this place support. If our purpose is not achieved in South Vietnam, quite clearly it will be the end for Laos and Cambodia. Perhaps it will be the end for Thailand, for Malaysia, for Singapore or for Indonesia. When does it become important? When is the Labor Party prepared to make a stand and say that the independence of a small country, which has few people as Australia has few people, is something that is important to us just as our own independence would be important to us? Or does the Australian Labor Party say that the independence of a small nation is precious only if that country is governed by a Communist Party? That perhaps would be the logic of the Australian Labor Party policy, which would mean a Northern victory and a Communist victory. Does the Labor Party want that? If it does not want that Opposition members should stand on their feet and express a policy which might give some possibility of an alternative solution to this conflict being reached. But if they do want a Communist victory, which would be the logical result of their policies, they should have the courage to say so. Indeed, they would have a duty to say so so that the Australian people can know fairly where they stand. This unity ticket in this Moratorium campaign between the Communist Party and the Australian Labor Party is the most pernicious unity ticket that we have so far seen. 
I would like to make one other point in relation to the change of attitude by the Leader of the Opposition over the last 2 years. He once had firm views on matters of foreign policy. He once had firm views on matters of the course and role that Australia should play in South East Asia. But in the last 18 months it can be demonstrated clearly that he has recognised that he can maintain unity in his Party only by accepting the policies of the Victorian executive of the 
Austraiian Labor Party. Let me illustrate that. Throughout last year he had a policy of providing State aid to schools, which he enunciated. This was the great S50m aid scheme which captured the headlines about this time last year. Then when the policies of the Victorian executive were accepted by the Federal Party in about August of last year, of course that policy of the $50m emergency aid had to be dropped. The Leader of the Opposition had a policy of leaving air and naval forces to support Singapore and Malaysia. But when the Australian Labor Party Conference, the outside body, said that it was neither feasible nor practical to maintain forces outside Australia and when it became the policy of the Conference to withdraw our forces immediately from countries with whom we had been operating in partnership for a very long while, that immediately became the policy of the Leader of the Opposition and all those honourable members in the Parliament who supported him. Was there a fight to maintain the previous policy which had been announced and which was of some importance to our allies north of Australia? There was no discernible fight. There was acceptance of the new policy enunciated by the Conference and formed in July or August last year. 
In December we saw another instance of determination to avoid demonstrations, to take no part in demonstrations and to make quite sure that demonstrations would not govern Australia's foreign policy. But now many members of the Australian Labor Party support the Moratorium. The Leader of the Opposition also supports the Moratorium campaign. J believe that Australians should be deeply troubled at the compliant attitude that has been developing in recent times to many things and to aggression not least of all. I have indicated that I believe this to be reminiscent of the attitudes that were prevalent in the 1930s. It is an attitude that is clearly encouraged by the Australian Labor Party, an attitude which can lead one to conclude only that it wants a Communist victory. Professor Arndt who was a one-time member of the Australian Labor Party wrote some time ago and repeated recently that belief. The second attitude which could be an explanation of Labor's policy is that it does not matter, that it is too far away, that it is not our concern and that the independence of a small country just does not matter. Well, when does it matter? When it concerns our own independence, or does it not matter even then? If these attitudes prevail and are accepted and win through they will inevitably lead to a greater conflict as did the permissive attitudes in the early 1930s about the early Nazi depredations. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
lt being 4 p.m., in accordance with the order of the House of 16th April I put the question: 
That the House do now adjourn. 
The Deputy Leader of the Opposition actually rose to his feet before the Minister for External Affairs. 
Order! The question is: 
That the amendments be agreed to. 
Before calling on the Minister for Health I point out that amendments Nos. 3, 5, 6, the first part of amendment No. 8, and amendment No. 9 on the Opposition's circulated list are out of order because they would increase the amount of appropriation required. Therefore, the amendments before the Committee are those numbered 4, 7 and the second part of 8. 
Is the motion seconded? 

Order! The time allotted for consideration of clauses 27 to 41 has now expired. The immediate question is: That the amendment to clause 27 moved by the honourable member for Kingston be agreed to. 
Amendment negatived. 
Order! The honourable member's lime has expired. 
Order! The honourable members time has expired. 
I suggest that the clause and the amendment give a little wider scope than might be given by just the clause itself. Provided that the honourable member for Gwydir keeps within the framework of the clause and the amendment, he will be in order. 
We have seen the dramatic development of our secondary industries. The net value of our manufactures rose from $1,1 38m in 1949 to nearly $8,000m in 1969. We have seen products from secondary industries finding growing markets overseas. In I960 secondary industries exported $198m worth of goods, representing 11% of our total exports. In 1968-69 the figure rose to $562m, representing 17% of our total exports. I understand that this year $700m will come into this country from manufactures. So we are finding new markets. We will have to continue to find new markets. I believe that the provisions of this clause will help us to maintain the degree of growth in our secondary industries that will enable them to exploit the export markets. 
We will need a growing availability of financial resources for our secondary industries. I know that sources are available already for our secondary industries. There are ways and means by which they can raise the necessary capital. But this Bill provides a new facility and a new access for our secondary industries which they will need in playing a far greater role in earning foreign exchange in the future and retaining Australian equity. So I support the clause and also the amendment which I believe does, to some extent, broaden the intent of the clause. 
ls the honourable member for Lilley prepared to seek leave to move his remaining 2 amendments to clause 8 together? 
Is there any objection? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
I would like to comment on some of the things that were said by the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun).  At one stage he said that he wondered why the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  had accepted the portfolio of Health and why he really was holding on to it because he did not seem to be interested and did not even seem to be doing the job. I think this is answered, first of all, in the speech that the Minister made in this debate. The Minister answered the queries raised by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  and also the queries that had been raised in other instances. Also, I think one should consider what the Minister for Health did during the preparation of the recent National Health Bill, the time that he spent in travelling around Australia and discussing the situation and matters relating to the Bill with those who were interested and ascertaining whether people agreed with the Bill. I am sure that even the people who oppose some of the provisions of that Bill accept the fact that the Minister for Health at least devoted a tremendous amount of time and effort to endeavouring to ascertain the conconsidered opinion of many of the people associated with health matters. I think that effort on the part of the Minister answers the criticism of the Minister for Health by the honourable member for Kingston. 
The closing words of the Minister also provided an answer to the criticism from the Opposition. I cannot remember the exact words but the Minister expressed the view that, while he believed that this matter of public importance brought forward by the Opposition could not be supported in strength, nevertheless the discussion was of value because matters of concern and the complexities of health care could be discussed. Again this was an acceptance by the Minister of the problems and difficulties associated with nursing. 
I particularly want to mention 2 points associated with this discussion on the nursing profession. I wonder whether there is any relationship between this discussion, as one of public importance, and another debate not so long ago on the Canberra Hospital, and the fact that a by-election campaign is now under way in this area. It is extremely easy for an Opposition at any stage to bring forward matters such as this and to say what it would do if it occupied the government benches. The Opposition can do this because it has absolutely no responsibility. Opposition members know that they can say things without having to worry about putting their words into effect. 
I think it is accepted by everybody that there is a need to raise the general standard of nursing. Nobody would disagree with that proposition. But to do this requires a certain amount of time. The honourable member for Kingston commented on some of the nursing conditions .in hospitals' in some States. I remind him that the Australian Labor Party was in office in my own state of New South Wales for some considerable time. The Liberal-Country Party coalition now in office in that State is finding it tremendously hard to rectify some of the mistakes and some of the bungling of a Labor Government. 
The Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  answered the points put forward by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  about other duties performed by nurses. These duties vary in different States as well as in different hospitals. Not all hospital authorities require nurses to perform exactly the same type of duty outside the direct sphere of nursing, lt is accepted that the problems of health are complex. The Commonwealth has taken steps to have discussions with the States about this matter in an endeavour not only to uplift the general standard of nursing but also to make a valuable contribution to hospital and health services throughout the country. Associated with nursing are home nursing, meals on wheels and all the other activities that are part and parcel of a nation's health service. 
It appears that running through this discussion is the suggestion that an increase in remuneration would solve the whole problem associated with nursing. Nobody expects people in the nursing profession to work without proper remuneration. During the demonstration by nurses outside Parliament House yesterday somebody said to one of the nurses: 'I would not take on your job for $5,000 a week', and the nurse replied: 'Neither would I'. I think that remark underlines an important clement. Nursing is not a profession that people follow merely for the remuneration they receive, but this does not mean that this section of the community should bc exploited. The point I stress is that there should be no intervention by a particular parly or a particular government in relation to remuneration. We have always stood firmly by the idea that all such matters should be determined by arbitration. That was the reason for the appointment of the Conciliation and . Arbitration Commission. A dangerous precedent would be established if any government interfered with the Commission in respect of the fixing of rates of remuneration. Such action would have a tremendous effect on the economy as a whole. In addition, it would bring such matters into the field of politics. That would be most dangerous not only to a particular union or a particular section of the community but to the Government and our economy as a whole. 
I want to make one comment on a point made by the honourable member for Kingston. The honourable member said that the Minister for Health was not interested in the conditions of work of nurses and other related matters. He said that the Minister was more interested in his own personal standing, because he had asked somebody to apologise for a statement made before being prepared to interview a certain group. If a Minister is told by somebody that he is not interested in certain conditions which apply to people, that statement is' not ' a very good foundation for discussions between the Minister and the people concerned. If it is implied that Minister is not concerned with particular aspects of his portfolio but that he administers a portfolio only because he desires what one might call the honour and privileges attached to it, then I think that that Minister would be entitled to ask for an apology before entering into discussions. 
I think there is justification for considering all the matters put forward by the nurses in their case but 1 oppose direct political intervention. The Government has established the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and other groups and organisations and they are the channels through which these people should proceed in an effort to have their claims accepted. 
Order! I think the honourable member for Grayndler is getting very wide of the subject matter under discussion. 
In the amendment relating to the Corporation as a lender of last resort the honourable member refers to a company making every reasonable attempt to secure assistance at appropriate rates from banks or financial institutions. What does he term  a  reasonable attempt? Does he mean one, several or a dozen attempts? Let him say what 'reasonable' means in that context. Let him define it. And what are appropriate rates for banking and financial institutions? Is he referring to 15%, 20% or 30%? I think you will agree,  Mr Chairman,  that there are reasons behind the moving of these amendments that have not been put forward by the honourable member.  His  real aim is to vent his spleen and to adopt the role of hero. 
. or financial institutions usually engaged in such type of arrangements and without success'. 
This stupid kind of resolution has been brought forward and there must be other motives behind it. I will not trespass on your generosity or disobey your ruling,  Mr Chairman,  but most people in this Parliament know the reasons behind these amendments, and in particular this one. 1 repeat the other amendment, lt states: 
For the purpose of the preceding paragraph the Corporation shall be deemed to be in a position where it is able to control the affairs of  a  company if it holds more than fifteen per cent of the issued capital of the company except where the equity acquired by the Corporation is in the nature of bridging finance. 
If one follows what is meant by these amendments one will see that they are designed to destroy completely the structure of the organisation that will be set up. Let the honourable member say if that is what he means; or is there an ulterior motive? I say that there is. I finish my remarks on this note: I regret that these honourable members who are so militant and so rebellious have adopted this means to vent their spleen against the Prime Minister in this Parliament. Having said so much, let us hope that there will be an end to it now and when the opportunity comes to defeat this discredited government they will do it the right way instead of trying to limelight their activities in this Parliament. 
T must point out to the honourable member, as I pointed out to the honourable member for Griffith, that this is not a debate related to member's secretaries or accommodation. It relates to electorate allowances. 
I will ask the Minister or someone in this Parliament to make available for showing in the Parliamentary Library a film that was produced about 3 years ago which compared the life of a senator in the United States Congress and the provision of facilities for him, what he did in his electorate, his staff and so on, with that of a member of the House of Commons. Compared with the House of Commons we arc almost spoilt. In that parliament members get a locker and that is about all they do get. Their salaries are worse than ours. I do not think we should say that because Westminster is worse off than we are that is a basis for comparison. We should have that film shown in the Library so that we may compare what is offering to Congressmen in the United States of America with what is offering to members of the House of Commons in Great Britain so that we may get an idea of the assistance that is available to members of Parliament. I can recall that the average Congressman in the United States of America, although the provision did vary considerably, had as few as 10 on his private staff and anything up to 25 or 30 who did research work for their member and provided him with speeches. We may find that we have suddenly to make 10 different speeches in 3 days. In my electorate on Monday morning I addressed architectural students on urban development. The next day I spoke on something else. The next day I spoke on the problems of civilian widows and on repatriation. It is impossible to keep up with the constant flow of information with which we arc provided, to research it, to prepare speeches and at the same time do our other duties in the Parliament and attend social functions in the electorate. I hopeI have kept my promise to the Minister to be brief. 
I suggest that the honourable member for Kennedy keep a little closer to the Bill. 
I would like to draw attention to contributions made by some university students. These contributions are rarely publicised. Not many people would know that during commemoration week at the University of Queensland a competition is held to see whether the previous year's record for the giving of blood to the blood bank can be broken. This is a most worthy contribution by a great body of university students at one university in Australia. Another activity engaged in by these students, who seek to prove that they are worthy of the facilities provided by the Commonwealth, is an annual picnic for the crippled children of Brisbane. Underprivileged and crippled children from every institution in the City of Brisbane are brought to the university campus and entertained by students. These activities are not recorded in newspaper headlines. No television cameras record them. Every year Queensland university students take part in a walk against want. Their purpose is to raise funds for Community Aid Abroad with a walkathon. I could go on and on reciting the worthwhile contributions of university students. 1 pay a tribute to the Government for providing funds to establish these grand university colleges. But as my learned colleague, the honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon)  pointed out, with his vast experience of university life, many university students do not enter these colleges. We should look to their circumstances. They should be assisted more than they are at present, particularly in the matter of deductions for purposes of income tax, to which I referred earlier. I will have much more to say on that subject on another occasion. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 Mr BEAZLEY (Fremantle) 12.14] - At the outset 1 would like to thank the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Barnes)  for his great and typical courtesy in providing us beforehand with copies of his speech and also copies of the Waigani paper of  Dr Gunther  which touched off the discussion which we are having in the House today. The issue in part is the charge of improper influence by the Government on a constitutional committee. This question of influencing the indigenous members of Parliament or indigenous opinion at all in any respect is one of the difficult questions in Papua-New Guinea. One factor, I think, is the chronic and constant tendency of the expatriate community of Papua-New Guinea to overreact. In this they are very like the Europeans of Rhodesia and the Europeans of South Africa. In the tragedy surrounding South African sport at the present time there is apparently a complete inability lo see that the decisions made about Basil D'Olivera and Arthur Ashe have had their consequences outside, because the expatriate community is cut off from the mainstream of world thought. Regardless of whether or not one agrees with what the Leader of he Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  had to say about plantation wages in Papua-New Guinea, the reaction of the planters can only be described as hysterical. I saw it there. Telegrams were sent to the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton).  Apparently the Prime Minister is to stop the Leader of the Opposition from saying that the wages are not adequate. This is the cut-off sort of thinking that you get there. 
If any honourable member wants to do a fascinating exercise I suggest that he have a look at the debates in this House on 4th July 1945, the day John Curtin died, when the first post-war statement of policy on Papua-New Guinea was submitted to the House. Then follow the debates through, especially in the speech of the late  Sir Thomas  White, who was then the honourable members for Balaclava, and later our High Commissioner in London. The planters began to send letters to him because indentured labour was being abolished. The whole sky was going to fall. They knew the natives but  Mr Ward  did not know the natives; ridiculous wage levels were being promised; it was ridiculous that there should be an interference with the question of indentured labour. The forecasts of disaster are so utterly unreal, and yet always surrounding the indigenous people of PapuaNew Guinea when one goes there are  thi  hysteria reactions to anything happening in the world. Each time I have been to PapuaNew Guinea there has been an explosion. The Prime Minister at the time,  Sir Robert  Menzies, had said in Australia that independence must come sooner or later and he favoured it sooner rather than later; a bombshell through Papua-New Guinea. Then  Sir Hugh  Foot went through, recommending a parliament of 100 and various other changes; another bombshell went through the expatriate community. One would have thought that by now they would realise that these are passing things and that the Papua-New Guinea community is evolving like other communities and that they should stop lacerating the nerves of the indigenous community with their infantile reactions to every criticism that is made of anything that is up there. 
A very distinguished expatriate member of the Parliament is  Mr Lussick  who has organised the independent group of 26 in the House of Assembly and virtually handed them over to the chairmanship of Oala Oala-Rarua.  Mr Lussick  came before us and we were having a discussion about the future. I said to him:  'Mr Lussick,  one of the things I feel that the indigenous members of the House of Assembly should be doing, instead of being encouraged to be roads and bridges members all the time, is to get around the community with a positive intention of creating national unity. Why do they not have travel rights?' He said: A lot of them are trouble makers and stirrers'. I said:  'Mr Lussick  I am speaking about your colleagues in the House of Assembly', and he said: 'That does not make any difference. They are trouble makers and stirrers'. This is the attitude. I urge honourable members in this House to read a book that has just been produced by a man who for many years up there was correspondent for the Australian Broadcasting Commission,  Mr John  Ryan. The book is called 'The Hot Land'. He said that at a meeting in Port Moresby when 
Oala Oala-Rarua launched his National Party of New Guinea it had what he regarded as an extremely intelligent programme. Sitting in the audience were 2 members of the Special Branch taking notes. He indicates that in the hysteria reaction beforehand certain members of the House of Assembly who intended to attend thought better of it and did not. That is the National Party of New Guinea which then faded out. You do not encourage the formation of political parties or political thinking by members of the Special Branch taking notes. The next thing that happened was the formation of the Christian Democrats which was fundamentally a Catholic party. John Ryan describes it as starting its proceedings with the Lord's Prayer and Hail Mary - and there were members of the security branch sitting in the audience. These things may be quite innocent. The members of the security branch, for all I know, may have been interested as private citizens. 
Order! The Minister for Shipping and Transport has spoken already and will have the chance to speak in reply when he closes the second reading debate. I call the honourable member for Hawker. 
An agreement between the Commonwealth and South Australia for the carrying out of a 24m rail gauge standardisation scheme in South Australia was signed today by  Mr Chifley  and the South Australian Premier  (Mr Playford). 
The agreement is substantially the same as that drawn up under the previous joint CommonwealthState arrangement, except that the financial provisions are changed. 17m Federal Share. The estimated Commonwealth share is 17m to be spent over a minimum of 8 years. 
The agreement guarantees the conversion of most of the South Australian railway system io the standard  A  foot 8i inches gauge and the completion of' the North-South line. It does not cover the electrification of Adelaide suburban lines which is regarded as a matter for the Slate Government. 
To sum up, I say that while we on this side of the House support the Bill and will do all possible to ensure its swift passage, I cannot commend the Government on this measure. Its record on the question of rail standardisation is a national shame. We on this side of the House will continue to prod this Government as a matter of urgency to ensure that the Adelaide-Port Pirie link will be constructed as soon as possible. We do so in the full knowledge that not only will it play a vital role in the economic development of South Australia, but it is a valuable and necessary contribution to this nation's defence. I support the Bill. 
The speeches that have been made in this House this afternoon have revealed one thing, and that is the complexity of this problem. One of the dangers into which we may be falling in regard to this is to feel sometimes that the mere appointment of committees will solve all the problems that this Parliament has been confronted with over a period of time. I would think that what we have to look at perhaps more than anything else is not only the matter of the appointment of committees - and I think there is some merit in this - but how within the framework of parliament as we know it we can make this Parliament work. 
There are many factors in regard to this question that have not been stressed in this discussion of a matter of public importance. When I speak of government and opposition I am not speaking in terms of the Parliament as it is at the moment but of government and opposition as such in a parliamentary system. Both government and opposition have a particular role in parliament. To my mind the one section cannot assume the role of the other. The opposition's role is certainly a very important one. It is one that is necessary to present a point of view that keeps a government on its mettle in introducing legislation. 
It may be said that because one party has been in power for so long the element of opposition and government has been lost. This is the factor relating to our Parliament at the moment The other factor, I believe, is ' that in speaking about committees some people' have not given sufficient thought to the position of cabinet and the executive in our parliamentary system. A great deal has been said about backbenchers not having enough authority, not having enough influence and not having enough weight in debates on matters that are brought before the House and that they are merely rubber stamps to set the seal on executive policy. This is not correct because at party meetings a backbencher has the opportunity to present to cabinet and the executive his thoughts. This has been done on a number of occasions with a degree of strength and determination. As a report appeared in one of our daily newspapers in relation to this, I am not betraying any secret in saying that a subcommittee of the Standing Orders Committee was formed of which 1 had the privilege of being  Chairman  and that sub-committee comprised the honourable members for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  and Ryan  (Mr Drury).  The sub-committee gave some thought to the alteration of the present system of arranging sitting days. I feel that if the Parliament were to sit for a longer period much of what has been mentioned today as committee work could be carried out on the floor of the House which is perhaps the most important place to which attention should be given to various subjects. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  said that there was a unanimity displayed in our committees when the members were reaching their conclusions. This is true. I wonder if committee work became an established fact, whether a degree of this unanimity would be lost because political influence could then come into committee deliberations which is not there at the moment. I appreciate that this is conjecture but I just wonder whether the political atmosphere of the Parliament might be transferred to the committees if they were greater in number than they are at this stage, lt is not wise to compare the committee system which is in operation in the United States of America with our parliamentary system. In the United Stales Cabinet members can be appointed from among people outside Congress and not from members who are elected by the public. The system in the United States is completely different in the sense that there is not the division between the parties as there is in our own Australian Parliament. 
One other factor which I think has been overlooked is that we are nol only members of Parliament but we represent electorates and must give our time to our electorates. I believe that many people appreciate that the importance of (his place must in many instances override electoral considerations. But we cannot get away from the fact that we are representatives of electorates. One of the greatest factors in our democratic system is that people can approach their member and that member is their voice on the Moor of this House in Canberra. I do not think that we should ever forget that. Of course, there is a difference between electorates. Some members of Parliament represent small areas  -  I will not say that they are the size of a pocket handkerchief - but some areas are small compared with other areas, which cover many, many square miles. One personal feeling 1 have is that unfortunately we have too many elections. I accept the fact that honourable members who are supporters of a government perhaps do not look forward to an election with the same degree of optimism in certain circumstances as do Opposition members whose position cannot be worsened whilst the position of government members can be. But, quire seriously, I believe that because Senate and House of Representatives elections are held at different times, unfortunately, there are too many elections and we do not get the continuity of government that is really necessary to valuable government. 
I am not speaking in this way because the coalition parties are the Government. In this instance I am referring to the government in the general sense. I believe it would be of advantage - and- I have said so in this House before - for the Parliament to give some thought to either a 4-year or a 5-year term. In the long run, I believe, this would not make a great deal of difference to any one of the parties in respect of holding office. But. because of the short life of a parliament our legislative programme is frequently crammed into a limited period. This position arises because we are constantly facing an election of either the Senate or the House of Representatives. [ do not think this is conducive to good government. 
I now come back to the point that I made in the first place. I believe there is a deal of merit in the committee system. However 1 feel we should also look at the ability to make parliamentary committees work to a far more beneficial degree. Some comment was made about the Committee stage of a Bill in this House. May 1 point out, having had some experience i , 1'iis regard, that the  Chairman  of Committees who points out to an honourable member that he is wandering a' little from the particular clause under discussion is not the most popular person in Australia. In exactly the same way, if the Chair points out, in a second reading debate, that an honourable member is wandering a little from the subject matter of a Bill, his ruling is not very popular. I believe that this state of affairs can be met by extended hours of sitting and additional sitting days to enable more time to be given in this House to the consideration of legislation. While I believe that there is merit and that there are many advantages in the committee system, I think we should be careful to realise that this is not the complete answer to the problem. One of the answers is that we work together to make this Parliament a more effective instrument in government. 
Before calling the honourable member for Warringah, I would remind the House that this is the honourable member's maiden speech and the House should extend the usual courtesy. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, the debate on the Adulthood Bill 1970 again shows the complexity of the issue and the points that are made in regard to the reduction of the voting age and the marriage age. The position is that in certain instances - I refer to those young people who are serving overseas and to those who apply for special consideration - young people automatically are entitled to vote in an election. They are given this right because they are accepting a greater responsibility. 
I think that this is a debate that is of value to this House and to this country. I would agree with the remarks of the Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes)  when he said that this was a matter that the Government felt should not be voted upon and that a final decision should not be made at this stage. I accept, if I may say this, what the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  said, that this may be taken to mean sometime in the near future or sometime never. The lowering of the voting age is something that will have serious repercussions in this Commonwealth. These repercusions will be felt not only in relation to the 2 matters that were referred to by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  namely, the reduction of the voting age to 18 years and the age at which con.sent automatically is given for marriage being set at 18 years. The effects of this change will also flow into so many areas with which we are connected in our community life. It is for this reason that I say that this is a matter that needs very careful consideration. 
There is a danger, which I appreciate and accept, of condemning young people in general terms because of certain attitudes that are adopted by some groups. Because these groups get publicity we tend sometimes to think that their behaviour is the behaviour of all voting people, lt has been argued by those who suggest that the voting age should be reduced that young people mature at an earlier age now than they did. say, 40 or 50 years ago. I think we would agree with that. Our world has become more closely integrated today because of advances in means of transport. Young people are considering things that in our lime we did not understand because we did not have the close associations that are now common. People are travelling abroad at ages younger than people did in our time. This, as I say, is principally due to the development of transport facilities, lt s also due to improved financial circumstances. 
There are many complex questions related to this issue. One concerns the economic factor involved in giving young people additional responsibility. I speak not so much of the reduction in voting age but more of the ability to marry at 18 years of age without obtaining special permission. lt is accepted. I think, that young people today slay at school and at universlies for much longer periods. The school leaving age has been increased in recent years. In my own Slate of New South Wales I know that young people are frequently at high school until the agc of 18 and even 19. Ali of these factors show the complex issues that confront the Government when con sidering the Bill that has been presented by the Leader of the Opposition. J do not speak in any disparaging sense when I say that an Opposition always has the opportunity to discuss matters without having to accept the responsibility of putting those matters into legislative effect. This, of course, increases the responsibility of the Government when it is deciding whether to agree to a proposition put forward by the Opposition or to accept legislation covering that proposition. 
I spoke earlier about young people accepting responsibility in this 20th century. Young people these days associate with other people in circumstances far different from those prevailing 30 or 40 years ago. I want to read something that was said in this House by the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock),  who is now the Minister for the Army, when this subject was being debated in 196K. lt highlights a factor that should be given deep consideration by all people who think about this subject. He was commenting on the Latey report that was presented in the United Kingdom and he gave this quotation from that report: 
II is easy for those not closely in touch with young people to Kel an entirely wrong idea of what they arc like. The very word 'teenager' conjures up horror images, of pop fans screaming at air ports, gangs roaming the streets ami longhaired rebels being rude to their headmasters; and some of the older generation react to them wilh an automatic shudder. 
We think this is Hie result of two thing:.. First, the Press. 'Dog bites man' is not news, 'Man biles dog' is. Five-hundred thugs vandalise a seaside town and the public gels front page headlines on it; scores of thousands lend normal, decent lives and little is written about it - if only for die simple reason that, when it is, nobody takes any notice. 
Wc found this impression cropping up again ami again in the evidence. One quotation will perhaps suffice to stand for the rest: 
The report went on with a quotation crf some of the remarks of a person who was opposing any reduction in the age of people who may vote, and also young people accepting responsibility. This is what that person said: 
I look to the contemporary scene for signs of increased responsibility among the young and I see the hooliganism of 'mods' and 'rockers', the hysterical behaviour of pop fans, (he growing number of unmarried mothers and (he higher proportion of pregnant brides under 21, the increase 'of drug taking, purple hearts and pep-pills, and the increase of venereal disease  among the young, and I do not feel that this suggests any grounds for assuming that 'they Mature so much earlier nowadays'. 
The report went on to say: 
It is a point of view. And those who bold it are, like this witness, inclined consistently to be against any lowering in the age of majority. They say, as she does, that hire purchase and mortgage agreements are 'a rock -on which many adults come to grief. Youthful optimism at the mercy of high pressure salesmanship can only end in disaster.' She regards very young marriages as peculiarly likely to turn into a brake on a young man's career and an end to a young  gill's  dream. The Committee discussed the reasons why people put these propositions forward. 
I quoted that report and comment because of something which appeared in one of our Victorian newspapers. It referred to a number of ratbags at a basketball game in Victoria, lt read: 
Oil thrown at race riot. 
Anti-apartheid demonstrators tried to wreck the women's basketball game between South Africa and Victoria at Royal Park last night. 
That group of young people would never be responsible enough to vote if they lived to bc 221 or 218. But the point that is emphasised by that newspaper report is thai the hundreds of people who acted normally got no publicity whatsoever because normal behaviour is not news. Let me give another illustration in regard to this. If a piece of legislation passes through this House with the Opposition voting against it and the Government in favour of it, this event is just recorded as an item of news. But if legislation passes through this House after some supporters of the Government have crossed the floor to oppose it, that is headline news because it is a little out of the ordinary. Yet, basically our Parliament is able to function smoothly and effectively only because of the acceptance of the principle of majority rule and a majority decision. 
Of our young people today I think it is completely true to say that the majority accept their responsibilities and are playing their part as citizens in the community. If this were not so, our society just could not function. If this were not so, our universities would not be able to achieve any progress or any development. The majority of the young people who go to universities will be contributing to the progress and development of this country because they are placing themselves in the position where, by gaining knowledge and advancing themselves in the academic field, they can accept the responsibilities of citizenship. If there is any doubt about this I would point to the fact that within our community we have Apex clubs in which young people are doing something within the community. They form the group that helps charitable organisations. Young people constitute a very high percentage of the members of charitable organisations. Young people are associated with charitable groups such as the Smith Family which engage in collecting food and clothes for needy people at Christmas time and on other occasions. We should realise that the majority of young people are accepting responsibility as did their forefathers and are making a contribution to the community life of this nation. 
We do not want to get a wrong impression, as I have said, as a result of the publicity that is given to particular groups. One can understand that this is only publicity and that the great majority of young people working normally and behaving normally in community life are not news. Because of all the publicity given to a minority we should not feel that all our young people are not facing up to and accepting their responsibilities. Because of this, I believe that the subject we are discussing is worthy of debate in this Federal Parliament. It is a subject that should be given very, very serious consideration and is not one that can be passed off lightly. I believe that we should not come to a point were no change is ever made. I accept the criticism that this decision to make further investigations and further studies can be used as an excuse to delay bringing in legislation; but I come back to the point I mentioned earlier that, because of al'l the complexities of the matter, because this subject in itself is not just an isolated question of whether a certain age group should be given the vote or be allowed to marry at the age of 18 years and because of all the other factors that flow from this I. believe that this is a measure that should be given very serious consideration. It is to the value- 
Order! The remarks of the honourable member for Hindmarsh are not relevant to the Bill. Nobody will be laughing his head off and nobody will be listening. The honourable member has been in this House long enough to know what is relevant to a Bill and what is not. 
I was very impressed by one point he made, that the wealthy wheat growing companies in Australia, which are able to produce enormous quantities of wheat because of the tremendous holdings they have, are virtually not affected by the quota system. I was impressed by how he was able to prove that the quota system is really knocking the small farmers, of whom there are so many, and that the big wheat growing interests, small in number but very powerful within the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation and within the Australian Country Party, have been able to force the spread of quota reductions over the whole industry so that the little man, the man whose capacity to grow wheat even if he were given the right to grow all he could, would not give him a handsome income, has now been forced to reduce the capacity of his farm. 
The best potential market is China and when China is unable to get wheat elsewhere she comes to us for it. Wc sell it to her, but we never set out to try to get markets in China. We wait until China comes to us, and for a good number of years China did come to us and helped to get us out of our difficulties. When other countries which had surplus wheat to sell - Canada and France are examples - they could see the great value of the Chinese market to their wheat industries and they set up de facto diplomatic relations with that Communist country. They had a distinct advantage over us. Let mc tell the Parliament this: The Chinese know more about our wheat surpluses than we know about its wheat needs. I pause a while to let that sink in. This is because we have no diplomatic relations established with Communist China and therefore no opportunities to set up commercial or trade attaches in Peking as the other countries have done. When those other countries are trying to discover what Chinese wheat needs will be they get out and get the sales before we even discover that China is buying wheat. 
On my way home the other morning I was driving through Balranald and I turned on my radio to listen to the news session. J was listening to the Deniliquin station and when I got sick of listening to that I turned to the Shepparton station but got the same announcement - an angry deputation of Edenhope farmers had just visited the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  and the only advice he could give them, according to the radio broadcast, was to walk off their farms- 
Minister for Primary Industry. The only advice the Minister could give, according to the radio- 
Order! I would suggest to the honourable member for Hindmarsh, as I mentioned to him earlier, that he has been in this House long enough to know what is relevant to a Bill under discussion in the House. Many of the subjects that he has been covering lately are completely wide of the Bill and I would ask him to come back to it. 
The poor old farmer becomes the butt of everybody's greed and avarice and he is helpless lo defend himself. He has no effective voice in the Parliament 01her than through the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson),  the honourable and very learned member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby),  the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  and myself, who. occasionally put his case. There is nobody on the Government side to speak up for the farmers and so they are helpless and hopeless. They have nol a political voice inside the Government and they are crying out for somebody else who will put their case for them. Is it any wonder that they are going broke? Petrol - a commodity that is vital now that the horse has gone from the industry - kerosense and diesel fuel prices have reached astronomical heights and rich overseas oil cartels have become fabulously rich. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! I will ask the honourable member for Hindmarsh to resume his seat if he keeps getting away from the subject matter that the House is discussing. I have suggested on three of four occasions that the honourable member should keep to the matter under discussion. 1 do not intend to do it again. If the honourable member transgresses again J will direct him to resume his seat. 
The discussion is now concluded. 
Sitting suspended from 12.31 to 2.55 p.m. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Is the amendment seconded? 
It is Schedule A, the request by the Senate for amendments. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. [Quorum formed.] ' 

 Mr MAISEY (Moore) 1.8.21]- I am supporting the course of action proposed by the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  in respect of these proposed amendments. However 1 want to make some observations about 2 of the proposals. They are proposed amendments No. I and No. 7. I refer first lo proposed amendment No. 1. I want to make these observations because I believe they clearly indicate that there is a need at some future time for the Minister lo give this position some attention. An anomaly definitely exists. Since 1953, when the national health scheme began, there has been the peculiar exclusion of the patients of eye specialists from receiving benefits for consultations with their doctor. Consider the cases of 2 patients sent to a specialist by a general practitioner for the investigation of headaches. After a complete medical examination of their eyes I patient is found to have nothing wrong. He receives a full rebate. This "s also the case if he is found to have some disease which is treated. But the other patient is found simply to need glasses for the relief of his symptoms. They are ordered by the doctor but the patient loses the benefit of his rebate. 
Obviously th is is a ludicrous situation. The original intent of the National Health Act was to have the consultations of all doctors covered by medical benefits. However, when optometrists claimed that they would lose clients if doctors fees were partly paid by the Commonwealth and applied for benefits to cover their own sight testing, the Government refused to pay these paramedical benefits but rescinded the benefit that rightly should have been paid to the patients of doctors. 1-hs seems lo me to be a completely unfair method of solving the problem. I have been told that Sim a year is a conservative estimate of the amount lost to patients in this manner. Whether optometrists are in need of economic assistance is beside the point. In the 
Sydney 'Sun' of 25th August 1969, in an article discussing vocations open to young people leaving school, members of the Australian Optometrical Association were quoted  as saying that optometrists upon graduation could expect a salary of $6,000 to $8,000 a year and, when they became established, an income of SI 2.000 to $14,000 a year, and that there was a shortage of 200 optometrists in Australia. lt seems to me therefore that optometrists certainly fare rather better than some Ministers of the Crown. Be that as it may, the first duty of the Government must be to supply the best type of medical service, whether it involves the treatment of the heart, blood pressure, kidney disease or the eyes. 
I am told by friends who are medical specialists that there are many eve diseases which, by their symptoms, lead the patient to think that he simply needs glasses. If these diseases are detected when the patient seeks glasses then a very great deal can be done to reduce the incidence of blindness in the Australian community. However, as only doctors are qualified to detect such diseases it is obvious that people should bc encouraged and not discouraged to seek medical examination at an early lime and at regular intervals. For 16 years the Government, in the admitted economic interests of optometrists, has discouraged people from seeking such attention and has made it impossible for people who cannot afford medical fees to attend specialists because they might not get their rebate. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  promised that no medical service would cost more than S5. But unless this proposed amendment is attended to at some future time the withdrawal of the Commonwealth benefit in such cases will leave more than $5 for the patient to pay, when the common fee is charged by an eye specialist, for a visit at which glasses are ordered. I believe that the Government should honour its financial promises at some future date. Further, the Government has a moral obligation to the Australian taxpayers to pay for an ophthalmologist's consultation in exactly the same way as it does for any other medical specialist whether or not glasses are prescribed. Failure to do this would be admitting that the Government is failing to support a vital medical service to an estimated 300,000 health scheme contributors a year for the purpose of supporting the economic interests of optometrists who are unqualified to supply the best and a complete service. I would like at some future time tonight to continue my remarks about proposed amendment No. 7. 
Order! I remind the honourable member lor Barton that one of the comments made in this chamber a moment ago was thai the Committee stages of the Bill were tor detailed discussion of t. I point out to the honourable member that I do not want his speech to develop into a discussion about the power of the Senate or ot this House in relation to Bills and to amendments by the Senate. 
The only other matter 1 want to raise is in respect of request No. 5 from the Senate. It deals with the proposed payment of $2 a day for patients in hospitals where no charge is made. This will now cover up the problem we have had in Queensland where the previous State Labor Government's provision of free public hospitals without means test still survives. It is the Federal Parliamentary Labor Party's policy for the whole of Australia. As soon as a Labor government comes into power one of the first things it will do wil be to reinstitute free public ward treatment in hospitals throughout Australia. I would like to attract the Minister's attention. It is pretty hard to carry on if one cannot get the Minister to listen. Is the Minister interested or not? T am prepared to wait if he is. 
Order! Whether the Minister Ls listening or not has no relevance to the Bill. I suggest that the honourable member for Barton continue with his remarks. 
) - Order! The honourable member for Sturt will resume his seat. In regard to the point of order raised by the honourable member a decision has already been made on it. I suggest to honourable members that as the hour is late they should concentrate on the Bill, speak to the Bill and make their remarks relevant to the Bill. There should be no more comments by honourable members which are not relevant to the Bill. 
When we discuss this matter we must immediately bring to mind the fact that over the years there has been something drastically wrong with the operations of the industry. Let us face facts and be realistic about them. If on the one hand the primary element of the industry, the producer, is not making a go of it and the secondary and tertiary operations of the industry are showing very considerable profits then there is something drastically wrong. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, I do not propose to speak for more than another few minutes. But I would like to read to the House a description which I have received from one of the wool growers in my electorate regarding the technique that he used recently in selling his wool. I will read it without comment. If reads: 
A test or pilot sample comprising a clip of Merino Wool in Western Queensland has been handled through a registered wool dealer directly to wool buying organisations from various overseas countries. On this pilot test, the wool dealer paid Wool Tax, Stamp Duty, Sheeps Back into Store Insurance, plus administration charges; total charges amounted to a little over lc per lb, some additional charges were paid at delivery at port of shipment - 
) - Order! I consider that what we are seeing tonight constitutes an abuse of Standing Orders. Members are deliberately leaving the chamber and then quorums are being called. 1 appreciate that it is within the province of members to call quorums. 
Order! The honourable member for Si George must remain in the chamber. He has been here long enough' to have an understanding of the Standing Orders. 
) - The Standing Orders were not abused by asking for a quorum; they were abused, in my opinion, by most honourable members on one side of the House vacating the chamber, which happened on 3 occasions during the sitting this evening, leaving one or two honourable members sitting in the House on that side of the chamber to call for a quorum. At that stage  I  said that in my opinion it was an abuse of the Standing Orders to call for a quorum having regard to the circumstances in which such a quorum had been called. 
) - In regard to the point of order raised by the honourable member for Wills, I point out to the honourable member that there was a previous ruling given From the Chair that a space of time should be allowed between a quorum being formed and another quorum being accepted. I would point out to the honourable member for Wills that I did not give a ruling. I ordered that the bells be. rung for the quorum, as is required, and it was only an observation from the Chair that I made in regard to the action taken relating to the calling for a quorum. I call the honourable member for Canning. 
Let us deal first with the suggestion of the Treasurer for a debate on all the Bills together, they being cognate measures. Is it the wish of the House to cover the 5 Bills in the one debate? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
House adjourned at 3.19 a.m. (Friday) 
In the strict sense there is no legislation before the House at the moment. The Chair, being extremely tolerant in its old age, allowed the honourable member for Melbourne Ports to speak. 
The question I was asked was: How late are we going to sit tonight? I cannot give an answer as to how late we are going to sit. All I can say is what business I want to bring on tonight. One cannot fix . the time at which the House will rise. One can only fix what business one wants to transact. The business I want to transact is to complete the compensation Bills and the Loan Bills. If I can I would like to make a start on the States Receipts Bills. The honourable member asked what business there is for tomorrow. The business tomorrow would be to complete the States Receipts Bills, to complete the Stevedoring Industry (Temporary Provisions) Bill and to complete the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill. The honourable member asked whether the House will- be up by 4 o'clock tomorrow. I am unable to say whether we will be up by 4 o'clock. That is the programme for the House tomorrow, and at what time we will finish I do not know. The honourable member asked about the convenience of transport. I have had discussions with  Mr Pike,  who also asked that question. I have given him all the information I can give him which, essentially, is the information I have just provided. 
House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Commonwealth Employees' Compensation Bill as they are associated measures. Separate questions may of course be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I, suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the 2 Bills to be discussed in ur.s debate. 
ls it the wish of the House to follow the suggestion made by the Treasurer? There being no objection. I will allow that course to be followed. 

The question is: 
That the Bills be considered urgent Bills. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Allotment of Time 
Order! I appreciate the fact that leave to make a statement does not limit the honourable member, but perhaps I might point out to him that certain arrangements have been made in relation to continuation. 1 suggest that (he honourable member might cover the subject matter at a later date. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
Section 37 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting paragraph (a) and inserting in its stead the following paragraph: "(a) to indemnify an employer of a passenger or any other person in respect of any liability of, or payments made by, that employer dr other person under a law of the Commonwealth or of a State or Territory of the Commonwealth providing for compensation, however described, in the nature of workers' compensation; or". 
move: 
After clause 5, insert the following new clause: . "5a. Section 29 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting from sub-section (1.) the words ', and not otherwise,' ". 
After clause 6, insert the following new clauses: "6a. Section 32 of the Principal Act is amended by adding at the end thereof the following subsection: (3.) The preceding provisions of this section apply in relation to liability of a carrier (including liability in respect of baggage) under a law (including the common law) other than this Part arising out of carriage of a passenger to which this Part applies in like manner as they apply in relation to liability in accordance with this Part.'.". 6b. Section 33 of the Principal Act is repealed.'. 6c. Section 35 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting sub-section (2.) 
Omit clause 7 and insert the following clause: 
Sections 36 and 37 of the Principal Act are repealed and the following section inserted in their stead: "37. - (1.) Subject to this section, nothing in this Part shall be deemed - 
to exclude any liability of a carrier, or a servant or agent of a carrier, under a law (including the common law) other than this Part; or 
to limit the amount recoverable in an action in respect of any such liability. "(2.) In an action against a carrier under this Part in respect of the death of, or injury to, a passenger, or the destruction or loss of, or injury to, any baggage, there shall be deducted from any damages awarded any amount payable by the carrier (or a servant or agent of the carrier) under a judgment or settlement in respect of liability otherwise than under this Part in respect of that death, injury, loss or destruction. "(3.) In an action against a carrier, or a servant or agent of a carrier, otherwise than under this Part in respect of the death of, or injury to, a passenger or the destruction or loss of, or injury to, any baggage there shall be deducted from any damages, compensation or other amount awarded any amount payable by the carrier under a judgment or settlement in respect of the liability of the carrier under this Part in respect of that death, injury, loss or destruction.".'. 
I do not propose to repeat what I said in my speech in the second reading debate. I have covered all of the points. This is the necessary procedure that should follow. 
 Mr Speaker  has received a letter from the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  proposing that a definite matter of public importance be submitted to the House for discussion, namely: 
The urgent need for reconstruction of the rural economy including  a  constructive drought policy. 
I call upon those members who approve of the proposed discussion to rise in their places. (More than the number of members required by the Standing Orders having risen in their places) 
It is my pleasure to speak in support of the report of the Fifteenth Commonwealth Parliamentary Association Conference which was held at Port-of-Spain, Trinidad and Tobago last October. I do so with a great deal of pleasure because I realise the importance of Commonwealth parliamentary conferences. It was my privilege to attend one in 1964 and I appreciated its value not only to myself and the other members of the Australian delegation but also to the members of the Commonwealth of Nations who attended it. The conference we are now debating would have been of particular value to the people of Kingston and Jamaica because they would have had the privilege of witnessing a meeting of parliamentarians of the Commonwealth of Nations. Many complex problems are facing the Commonwealth of Nations in this day and age. I believe that Commonwealth parliamentary conferences as they are constituted at present can make a tremendous contribution to the stability of the world because members of the parliaments of the Commonwealth of Nations are able to gather together and discuss matters which are of vital importance not only to our parliamentary system but also to the world. On top of that, the members of parliament who attend these conferences are given an opportunity to see the conditions which prevail in the countries in which they are held. They are also given an opportunity to get together and talk before the sessions of the conferences actually begin. I believe that these conferences are of value not only to the Commonwealth of Nations as such but also to the rest of the world because of the impact they have on world affairs. 
Many problems are being experienced in the Commonwealth of Nations. These include such things as problems of trade and understanding. All of these problems, as well as discussions in regard to our parliamentary systems, are brought out into the open and debated in an atmosphere of tolerance and understanding. I believe that this report substantiates what I have been saying in support of its adoption. One has only to look through it and read some of the matters of discussion to realise its value. Such matters include the pattern of unrest - youth and revolt - regional development and economic development. The section on economic development would be of value on its own, even if there had been no previous discussion, because one gains a full appreciation of the economic problems confronting, in the main, many of the small countries. I do not say that there are no economic problems in the larger countries, but in particular the smaller countries, many of which have received their independence in recent years and many of which are trying to find their place in the scheme of world economics, are confronted with economic problems. From the discussions held at these conferences we can learn to understand the problems of these countries and they can understand the problems that we have in endeavouring to assist them. 
As I said, it is with a great deal of pleasure that I support the remarks of those honourable members who have spoken in regard to the report of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association conference. The honourable member for Casey  (Mr Howson),  who has had very close association with our Commonwealth Parliamentary Association, said that it also gives honourable members an opportunity to come back and report on the floor of this national Parliament on what they did at the conference and the value of it. This highlights the value of these conferences for many people who would not otherwise have an appreciation of their value. Today we have had the privilege of having members of a Japanese delegation here with us during their visit to Canberra. The value in meeting members of other parliaments was mentioned in the speeches of welcome to the delegation. Members of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association attend various conferences throughout the world. The associations that they make at these conferences and the understanding they gain provide a valuable contribution to the success of discussions that are held and which relate to many problems. 
As I say, I am glad that this report has been presented to Parliament and for the opportunity to discuss not only the report but also the wider sphere of activity of our Commonwealth Parliamentary Association. I am glad of the opportunity to have these discussions and this debate. J am sure that all honourable members on both sides of the House and in both Houses who have attended these conferences have an appreciation of their value not only to us as individuals, not only to Australia, but to the Commonwealth as a whole. 
Order! I ask the honourable member for the Northern Territory to withdraw the word 'hypocritical'. 
Order! The time allotted for consideration of general business has expired. 
Order! The further time allotted for Notice of Motion No. 1, General Business, has expired. The House will proceed to Government Business. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Giles)  adjourned. 

The question now is: 
That sub-paragraph (c) of paragraph (1) relating to a reduction in the quorum of the House, be endorsed in principle. 
I would suggest that the House come to order and interjections-cease. 
Another important factor is that many honourable members are screaming for more committees. They are asking for joint committees. The honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  who was very vocal in opposition to this item has a motion before the House seeking standing committees on foreign affairs and defence, finance and trade, health and welfare, primary industry and national development, transport and communications, education, science and the arts, legal, home and internal territory affairs. Already the Government has 13 or 14 party committees meeting fairly regularly on items that go through this Parliament. Thirteen committees are working on subjects similar to those mentioned by the honourable member for Wills in his motion. 
We have electoral work and correspondence to attend to; we must conduct research for the compilation of speeches; and we must catch up with our newspaper reading. Telephone calls must be made back to our electorates. Every member has these duties at all times. The honourable member for Wills is seeking to superimpose on our present committee system an elaborate organisation of general standing committees. I am still not sure whether I will support such a scheme. If that motion is carried, how are we to attend to the parliamentary work associated with debates and carry out our jobs as members of committees? The committees that are proposed would operate at top level. Heads of departments would be invited to give to those committees ' their views on various Bills coming before the Parliament. Those men would be brought from their offices to this building. They are busy men. It could happen that half a dozen quorums would be called during an afternoon on which they were attending the House to appear before committees. Instead of helping us with their knowledge they would be left sitting in committee rooms while we raced to the chamber in response to calls for a quorum. It would be utterly ridiculous and an insult to heads of departments called to the House to assist us. If the quorum is reduced from 42 to 20 members, less time will be taken up in quorum calling and in getting members into the chamber. 
The legislation passing through this House covers a great number of subjects. We spend less time in the chamber listening to debates on subjects in which we are not interested. It is a matter of horses for courses in that we try to specialise in certain subjects. We cannot specialise in every subject covered by debates in this Parliament. If we can cover some of those subjects we do a mighty good job. It is not possible to be a specialist in every subject covered by legislation. That is physically and mentally impossible. The fact that the attendance in the chamber is sometimes disappointing does not indicate that this Parliament is headed for destruction, or that what it stands for is to be destroyed. It is simply a reflection of the priority accorded by honourable members to the debate in progress. 
The honourable member for Wills has said that if the quorum is reduced legislation could be passed by only a handful of members on one side of the chamber. This has hardly ever happened. It happened on the last day of the last session because pairs had been allotted up to 4 o'clock in the afternoon. The debate proceeded until  9  o'clock or 10 o'clock at night - a Friday night. That is why the numbers in attendance were very low at that hour. This is a most unfair illustration. It happens only once in a blue moon. I suppose 90% of the legislation that goes through this place is unopposed, in the sense that it is agreed to on the voices. Not many people outside the Parliament realise this. I repeat that 90% of the legislation is approved by members on this side of the House as well as on the Government side. We of the Opposition may move amendments in the Committee stage to clauses of a certain Bill but then the Bil) as a whole is agreed to. The legislation that is given publicity in the Press is the 10% on which we violently disagree with the Government and which we dispute with division after division, clause after clause. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  gave some figures at a Party meeting last session when he said, I think, that only 1 1 % of the Bills that go through this place are violently opposed by the Opposition while 89% are unanimously agreed to in that they encounter no Opposition other than perhaps disagreement with certain clauses in the Committee stage. It is obvious that this kind of noncontroversial legislation can be put through with only 20 members in the House, because it is accepted on the voices. Why, then, are honourable members suggesting that the House would fall to pieces if we reduced the quorum to one-fifth of the membership? They bemoan the fact that legislation can be passed in this place when only a handful of members are present. Of course legislation is passed in those circumstances, but only when it is legislation with which the Opposition is substantially in agreement. When a Bill is brought forward with which we disagree we call for divisions at every opportunity. Everybody votes. 
I have put the situation that obtains in actual practice. 1 have in mind the examples of other parliaments in other parts of the world, and 1 remind the House that if it wants the Committee system to work it must have more time for Committee procedures. We must not be harassed, annoyed and pin-pricked by members constantly calling for quorums. For these reasons I believe we would be a more efficient Parliament if we were to reduce the quorum to one-fifth of the membership. 
Order! The discussion is concluded. I call on Government Business. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Is the amendment seconded? 
Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
Order! The honourable member will resume his seat. The honourable member has been in this place long enough to know the basis of a Budget debate. There is no substance in the point of order. 
The recent Vietnam Moratorium Campaign was an illegal operation and a defiance of democratically enacted laws. However, the police were told that they must stand by and look the other way when the law was flagrantly, deliberately and provocatively broken by men led by the Leader of the Opposition and some of his cohorts. The time has come when the elected Government must take a firm stand against these law breakers. The time has come when the average decent citizen must demand action. We are the people who represent the citizens of this country and it is up to us to ensure that the Government takes strong action. We will have 95% of the people with us if such action is taken by the Government. We have not maintained eternal vigilance. We have come perilously close to losing our freedom in this country. The tragedy to which we must awake is that our freedom is being stolen from us by the militant few - the arrogant, violent minority. The great majority of Australians are decent, law abiding citizens. The Federal Government should have the courage to introduce legislation to compel all trade union elections to be conducted by a compulsory secret ballot under the supervision of the Commonwealth Electoral Office. It should be mandatory for all those called upon to engage in strike action to be allowed to vote in a secret ballot before being forced to go on strike. I am convinced that this action alone would eliminate 90% of the industrial unrest and the frivolous and political strikes. 
The strike called by  Mr Hawke  and the Leader of the Opposition against the Budget would have received very little support if the decision to strike had been made by the rank and file members of the unions. A compulsory secret ballot in all union elections would eliminate almost completely the extreme left wing and the Communist dictatorship which have seized power. I am a strong believer in trade unions and the need for responsible leadership. No-one will ever convince me that many employers would not exploit the employee if he were not protected by a strong union. I repeat that I am in support of strong unions representative of the rank and file members. But today, because of apathy and disgust with the present leadership of these unions, less than 51% of eligible workers belong to a trade union. I think that this is a tragic situation. Any truthful union member will agree that fewer than 10% of financial members ever attend meetings or participate in the election of union leaders. The result of this apathy is that some 5% of the workers take control. Too often these are the militant, aggressive, violent, left wing, Communist dominated members. Fewer than 5% of the workers take the bread from the children's mouths, cause industrial unrest, promote violence in our streets and seek to destroy our democratic way of life. 
While 1 believe that the Government has done its best to bring down a Budget that overall is in the interests of the nation and that less emphasis should have been given to lower taxation and more emphasis placed on assistance to the pensioner and the man with a large family, I maintain that economic measures are not enough. The restoration of law and order is even more important. Unless law and order are restored economic measures will be completely futile. Unless irresponsible, power drunk, strike happy disruptionists are controlled and unless the control of unions is restored to the hands of the decent rank and file members then the purchasing power of the pensioner, the superannuitant, the lower wage earner and the man with a large family, together with the exporter of primary products and manufactured goods, will continue to deteriorate at an ever increasing rate. The ultimate result will be a major recession or depression which no decent Australian wants but which suits the militant left winger and the Communist. They know that their only chance of seizing power is by creating a pervading feeling of desperation through violence, hunger and misery. I appeal to the Government to take firm action, f am convinced that the Government will have the support of the vast majority of decent Australian people if it does so. 
There has been emanating from the city Press and from others who have been carried away by the present mineral boom a growing chorus decrying and denigrating the importance of the primary industries and suggesting that primary industries are becoming relatively unimportant in the present and future economic prosperity of this nation. Despite the depressed prices of rural exports, they still earn more than S2,000m and this is considerably more than half of the total of Australia's export earnings. In actual residual or effective export earnings the rural industries are far more important in that almost 100% of the rural exports are produced in Australia by Australians whereas a very large proportion of our export earnings from both minerals and manufactured goods is paid out in dividends and the repayments of capital to overseas interests. There is the additional cost of raw materials for industry. The wheat industry is quickly overcoming the problems created by  a  record crop, which occurred in the same year as every other wheat producing country had a record crop. One has only to study the facts to realise how childishly foolish are the statements made by the Opposition shadow minister for primary industry and particularly by the minishadow minister. They of course have always bitterly opposed the decisions of the elected leaders of rural industries - not only the experienced leaders of the wheat industry but the leaders of practically every other rural industry. The wheat industry will recover; it is quickly recovering now with the aid of mother nature. 
Wool is the key to the problems of practically all our rural industries. Wool is still our grestest single export earner, and the restoration of the industry to profitable levels is of vital interest to every Australian. Wool, unlike wheat, has no world surplus but annual production is going into regular consumption. Why is it then that so many Australians go to such lengths to try to create the impression that wool is finished, that wool can be done without, that other textiles are better or have more desirable characteristics? Wool is by far the best and most desirable fabric known to man. lt is most appealing for its wearing qualities, appearance and health reasons and it far outperforms any man-made fabric. I believe that for too long the Australian wool grower has been content to leave the selling of his product to others who are making more out of wool today than the wool grower is. Wool is still &amp; free commodity. It is one of the few free commodities that we have and it is extensively used by currency dealers as a means of avoiding losses and in reaping large profits in fluctuating markets. A great deal of the resistance to any attempt to control the price or marketing of wool comes from this area. It would be interesting indeed to know how many Australians who have never grown wool are making large sums out of dealing in wool and wool futures and forwarding selling. The trading banks stand to lose very large sums indeed in currency conversion if direct sales are made from the producer to the manufacturer, just as they did when the Australian 
Wheat Board eliminated a large source of similar revenue. Hence we have the reason for much of their resistance. 
The extremely heavy and largely unnecessary costs and profits involved in the handling and processing of wool are such that if the wool were to be given to the manufacturers one would not buy a woollen suit or a woollen article any cheaper. Everybody is making an excellent profit out of wool except the wool growers. The time has come when wool growers can no longer afford virtually to give away their wool. The time has come for them to reap some reward for producing the best textile fibre in the world. The wool grower has made tremendous progress in improving his product. He is growing more and better wool per sheep and per acre. The grower has vastly improved pastures and husbandry. He uses better drenches, inoculates his sheep, classes his flock, buys expensive rams and employs expert wool classers. The care and preparation of the wool in a grower's shed is a near perfect operation. Having done all of this the grower rolls his wool out of his shed on to a landing and virtually says: 'You can do what you like with it'. 
What happens is that he is fleeced because he has to pay exorbitant road and rail freights. His wool is handled at least 20 times from the rail head to the factory or ship. Dealers, wool scourers, processors, manufacturers and wholesalers all take their cut. The retailers take from 33i% to 60%. The result is the wool is far dearer to the consumer than it should be. Obviously the time has come when the producer must take control of his product  ot  go out of business. I believe that there is a great future for wool. There is room for tremendous savings in the handling and manufacture of wool. For example, elimination of the many parasites would make it possible for manufacturers to pay for th  raw article and sell it for less. 
We, the wool growers, have to set our house in order and reorganise our industry. To do this we need the right economic climate, which only governments can provide. We need long term loans to reconstruct our industry. By long term I mean loans of from 20 to 30 years at reasonable interest rates. This will enable us to develop our properties and purchase additional land to build economic units. Economic stability and reduction of industrial unrest, which can be brought about only by strong government action, is absolutely necessary. The future of wool is still the future of the nation. The Government ignores the position of the wool industry at its peril. The loss of its wool seats will bring about the defeat of the Government. The Socialists are doing their utmost to cash in, as always, on the problems of the rural industries. They are doing so not because they care for or are really interested in the position of country people but because it appears to them to be a way to gain power.  Mr Whitlam,  in the 65 minutes he spoke during his contribution to the Budget debate, devoted less than 30 seconds to rural industries. 
The honourable member for Franklin is correct, but I would point out to him that occasionally such things are inadvertently said by honourable members and unless they are said repeatedly it has been the practice on both sides of the House to allow them to pass without attention being drawn to them on the first occasion. 1 thank the honourable member for pointing out a breach of the Standing Orders. 
If the Socialists gain power what would happen to our rural industries? We would have a Socialist state. Those of us on the land - all of us - would be reduced to a race of peasant collective farmers. We would see the end of democratic freedom and the rise of Socialist dictatorships. An example of this is the power drunk dictatorship of  Mr Hawke  and his associates. 1 refer to the Leader of the Opposition and the left wing members - I am careful about saying the left wing members - of the Opposition. The people are demanding that the Government take firm action against the law breakers, no matter who they are. No matter who it is - be it the Leader of the Opposition, the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  or any other member of this Parliament, the leader of a union or a parson - if he breaks the laws of this country we must take firm action against him. I support the Budget. While ! do not agree with it in detail, t is on the whole a serious attempt to try to do something about the destructive powers which are increasing costs in this country and reducing the purchasing power of pensioners, superannuitants, primary producers and the low wage earners. I conclude on this note: The greatest enemy we have in our country is those people who are forcing up costs and reducing purchasing power. Again I name  Mr Hawke  and the Leader of the Opposition. 
The honourable member for Sturt has taken 3 points of order during the debate which have had no relevance to the debate. I warn the honourable member for Sturt not to take any more irrelevant points of order. 
I think it is a rather ridiculous suggestion to make that there should be another general election. I have known of occasions when the Opposition has adopted the attitude that it is a waste of money to hold a general election before the 3-year term of the Parliament has expired and that the Government should not contemplate doing so. We now find that 8 months after the last general election the Leader of the Opposition is suggesting something of this nature. However, the electors of Australia are quite used to the Opposition holding out all sorts of baits to them on the occasions I have mentioned, namely, during an election campaign and after the bringing down of a Budget by the Government. This was the case last Tuesday night. Those people who were able to understand the gabble that the Leader of the Opposition indulged in for approximately an hour would appreciate that it was nothing more than an indication of the Socialistic type of policy which he and his Party would in fact introduce in this House if they were to occupy the Treasury bench. 
Those people who listened to what the Leader of the Opposition had to say on Tuesday night would be entitled to ask what is the Budget philosophy of the Labor Party and, what is more important, what is the economic policy of the Labor Party. The Labor Party has been in Opposition for 20 years. It has in the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  a person who has concentrated on economic matters during the whole of that period. I would have thought that in those circumstances the Labor Party would have had a policy which it could put before the Parliament and the people of Australia, but its policy has never been evident in the speeches which I have heard. 
The Leader of the Opposition spoke about his belief - as he did in the last election campaign - in the nationalisation of health services in the country. He indicated the broad attitude of the Labor Party to education, regardless of the fact that education is basically the responsibility of the States. He also gave us his views in regard to defence, housing, local government authorities and matters concerning rural industry. 1 have in front of me the policy speech of the Leader of the Opposition in the last general election campaign. It is interesting to refer to it to see what he had to say about primary industry. His remarks occupy less than 2 pages. In relation to wool - and this is something on which he was critical of the Government because it had included $3 Om in the Budget to assist the wool industry - he said: 
After consultation with the industry, it would be- 
That is, the Australian Labor Party -  prepared to implement an effective minimum plan to safeguard this group. 
Those words are underlined in his policy speech. If the Leader of the Opposition can prove to the people of Australia that that is in fact an acceptable statement of policy I will eat my hat. lt is not an acceptable statement of policy. I do not believe that the Leader of the Opposition had any justification for criticising the Government for its actions after it had consulted with the wool industry. This is a first measure towards meeting the problems which the industry is facing at present. 
The Leader of the Opposition said that there should be a re-allocation of the moneys which the Government will receive by way of taxation. He asked: 'Where is trie money coming from?' lt is fairly obvious that the Leader of the Opposition had in mind expenditures greater than those contained in the present Budget, but he did not indicate exactly what they were. He has never mentioned publicly what are his real policies. He has never stated what is the cost of this, that or the other proposal which he has put forward in his policy speeches. He is not game to mention it because the cost would be so astronomical that the people of Australia would react violently against his proposals. 1 am prepared to have a look at the Budget in the broad for a moment or two. t shall examine it in the broad because it would be impossible for me to go through all the details in the time available. An examination of the Budget will reveal that 36% of the proposed expenditure will go to the States; 14% has been allocated to defence purposes; 23% to expenditure on national welfare and repatriation measures; and 2% to external aid. This represents 75% of the proposed total Budget expenditure. Is it in the mind of the Leader of the Opposition that there should be some re-allocation within those areas? If it is. I think he should have indicated what sort of re-allocations he has in mind. By how much would he reduce defence expenditure to provide money for something else? How much would he provide in  Other  areas? Would be reduce the amount which has been allocated to the States? It would  be  interesting to know whether he would do so because he has been saying for years that the Commonwealth Government does not make sufficient money available lo the State governments for their purposes. He said exactly the same thing  on  Tuesday night. 
The additional areas  of  assistance to industry and expenditure  on  the Territories, education, the Austraiian Broadcasting Commission, Aboriginals, research and immigration - all of which I believe are essential items of expenditure which the Government must undertake - represent 10% of the proposed total Budget expenditure. The proposed expenditure on capital works and advances is 9% of the Budget and departmental administration expenses are 6%. The total represents 100% of the proposed Budget expenditure of $7, 882m. No-one  on  the Opposition side of the House has indicated to any degree whatsoever what sort of reallocation should be made and what additional expenditure the Opposition would incur over and above a balanced budget, which this Budget is - and of course that additional expenditure would require increased taxation. The very reason why the Leader of the Opposition is not prepared to indicate what the additional costs would he is because he is not prepared to stand up to public examination in relation  to  the additional taxation which would be required. 
Having introduced my remarks in that way, 1 turn to what I regard  as  the role of the Budget and. in conjunction with it. the economic growth of the Australian community in recent times. Some people see the Budget from the point  of  view of the cargo cult. This point of  view  is invariably linked with calls for more and more spending in all directions and less taxation. Where the money is to come from is someone  else's  problem. I would suggest that the Leader of the Opposition indicated quite clearly on Tuesday night that he is a member of the cargo cult. However, the Government cannot embrace this philosophy or look at things from such an irresponsible viewpoint. As well as being a vehicle for achieving major social and developmental aims, the Budget must be attuned to what is possible in terms of the available resources. Disregard of that essential criterion of Budget framing can only lead to raging inflation of an unprecedented order. The Government therefore must act responsibly. It must judge by how much each year Commonwealth spending should rise and by how much the level of taxation should be varied in consequence. Basic to that judgment must be an assessment of the overall impact of the Budget on the economy. In brief, the Budget must blend in with other forces at work in the economy so as to produce conditions most favourable to Australia's long term growth and development. 
Within that framework the role of the Budget each year is to direct a reasonable allocation of the nation's resources towards meeting social, developmental, defence and other aims. The Budget subventions these days are massive, and concentration on the increase in any particular year can give a distorted view. The fact is that in 1970-71 Commonwealth expenditures are estimated to total $7,833m - equivalent to nearly one-quarter of gross national expenditure. The Budget therefore has a major allocational role within the public sector as well as between the public and private sectors. In different years the emphasis might differ. In 1970-71, for example, the really big increase in spending is in payments to the States, but with large increases also in other main areas of spending. But, as always, the necessary funds have to be secured, and here the Government has to act responsibly. The fact that some commentators have labelled the Budget as slightly deflationary and others have labelled it as inflationary suggests that on balance the Government's judgment of the appropriate overall Budget framework is one with which reasonable and well informed people would not seriously quarrel. 
This Budget is one in a continuing series. It carries on the work of its predecessors in setting the stage for strong, sound, balanced growth in conditions of full employment. The extent to which Australia's economic performance in recent years has outrun earlier expectations is not fully appreciated everywhere. We have come to accept that a high standard of economic management is to be expected from the Government. One example of the way earlier expectations have been bettered might be cited. In 1965 the Vernon Committee, in its report, suggested that the Government should aim for a rate of growth of 5% per annum. But the Committee said:   . . a rate of growth of 5% per annum will not be easy to achieve. We therefore regard it as a 'high' rate of economic growth for Australia, but not too high a rate to be a reasonable goal for policies designed to achieve the stated economic objectives. 
I place on record what has actually happened. I merely give the percentage increases in gross national product at constant prices from the year ended 30th June 1963 through to the year ended 30th June 1970. The figures for those years are 6.9%, 6.7%, 7%, 1.7%, 6.1%, 3.9%, 8.6% and 5.5%. For the 8 year period the average annual increase was 5.8% as against what was suggested by the Vernon Committee, namely, 5% as representing a high rate of growth. 
So, since the downturn in the early 1960s the economy has outperformed not only its record in the 1950s but also the high' rate of growth suggested as an objective by the Vernon Committee. What is more, this occurred despite the extremely serious droughts in 1965-66 and 1967-68 and the setback to rural industry  in  1969-70. The effects of the downturn in the farm sector in those 3 years are obvious from the figures I have read out. However, the non-farm sector grew strongly year by year and virtually without pause throughout the period covered by those figures. Of particular significance is the fact that the economy grew by 5.5%  in  1969-70, despite the rural industry setback. It is exepcted to grow by about 5.5% again in 1970-71; but a better performance would have been predicted had it not been for the spread of drought conditions again. 
Throughout this period of growth the economy remained reasonably well balanced. Despite rapid growth  in  the labour force, unemployment remained low and tendencies for the economy to veer off  in  an unwanted direction were corrected by minor and non-disrupting fiscal and monetary policy measures - not a severe credit restriction, as was suggested by the Leader of the Opposition. There has been, it is true, some tendency for inflationary pressures to persit. These are difficult to eradicate entirely in a situation in which pressures for increases in wages and other incomes are intense. Looking ahead, we can expect the labour force to grow by some 2.5% per annum in the next decade, and provided we continue to manage our affairs responsibly - that is a vital proviso -productivity should continue to rise at 2.5% to 3% annually. Continued good growth of the order seen in the 1960s - that is 5% to  6%  annually - is thus very much on the cards. But growth could be jeopardised by irresponsibility on the part of those framing the Budget. 
The domestic economy's excellent past performance and outlook are parallelled on the external front, where Australia's balance of payments has been strong and promises to continue to be strong. Exports have increased at an annual rate of 8% during the past decade to a level of almost $4,000m in 1969-70, while imports have grown at an annual rate of 7% to reach about$3,600m in 1969-70. This improvement in our trading position, which has become much more noticeable in the past 2 years, owes a good deal to the success of economic policy in maintaining a relatively high degree of domestic cost and price stability. 
An important counterpart of the improvement in the overall trading position has been the significant change in the composition of Australia's trade. Exports of minerals and manufactures, which represented less than 25% of total exports only 5 years ago, accounted for about 45% of the total in 1969-70. Over the same period rural exports, which with a few exceptions - notably meat - have faced steadily deteriorating marketing conditions, have declined from almost three-quarters to one-half of total exports. Meanwhile, the largest single item in our import bill - petroleum - is about to be substantially reduced by increasing domestic crude oil production. These structural changes will increase the strength of the balance of payments. 
The opportunities opened up by widespread natural resource discoveries, together with the relative stability of the domes tic economy, havegivenadded impetus to the inflow of capitalto Australia. In the second half of the 1960s capital inflow amounted to $4,700m, compared with $2,400m in the previous 5 years. The continuance of rapid economic growth will require further increases in the flow of overseas capital to Ausatralia. Over the 1960s as a whole, net apparent capital inflow has more than covered the deficit on the current account of the balance of payments. Australia has added more than $500m to its official reserve assets over this period. The growing strength of the trading position and the attractiveness of Australia to overseas investors point tobrighter balance of payments prospects at the beginning of the 1970s than was the case 10 years ago. 
Now I would like to make a few comments in relation to one or two aspects of the Budget which particularly concern taxation in the first place. 1 use as a backdrop to my comments in regard to taxation the Budget of 1964, when the right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell)  was the Leader of the Opposition. That was a Budget in which a 5% reduction in direct taxation which had been given in 1952 was removed. The right honourable member for Melbourne made this comment in 1964: 
Because there has been no change in the tax schedule the impact and incidence of taxation has changed vastly ... It has changed constantly and consistently to the detriment of those on lower incomes ... He has not attempted-- 
He was speaking of the then Treasurer-  to make any radical change which would obtain equity for the great majority of Australian taxpayers. 
The right honourable member for Melbourne said something similar in 1965 when there was a 21/2% addition to taxation in that Budget. What he said then was something similar to these words uttered by the Leader of the Opposition on Tuesday night:   we are no nearer . . . justice and equity in personal taxation, no nearer that fairer redistribution of wealth and fairer distribution of burdens which should be one of the prime objects of taxation in an enlightened community. 
What happened in relation to taxation in this Budget? I remind the public and honourable members that the reduction is 10% up to a taxable income of $10,000. It then tapers to reach 4.4% at $20,000 and, continuing the taper, it becomes nil at $32,000. The Government had undertaken to amend personal income tax so as to give significant relief from this form of taxation which had been growing more rapidly than other forms. The Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  stated in his policy speech last year that we would aim:  so to reduce personal tax, over the three year period beginning with the next Budget- 
That is this Budget now before the Parliament -  that at the end of that time we will be providing relief, lo lower and middle income earners, of $200m as compared wilh the amounts which would be payable by them under the present income tax structure.  it was mentioned that a reduction of $228m is made in the Budget but with adjustments this will reach $289m. This was confirmed by the Leader of the Opposition. But that is not the end of the matter .There are 2 other points I would like to mention. Firstly, the promise was for relief of $200m a year by the end of 3 years from now. Allowing for growth in incomes in the next 3 years, whether from growth in the number of income earners or growth in average incomes, there is no doubt that the difference in annual yield from the old and the new scales will greatly exceed S289m. If trends in employment and earnings continue, in 3 years time the annual cost of the new scale could well have grown from $289m to over $400m. On that basis of escalation it is expected that within the 3-year period there will be a reduction of taxation to these people under the $32,000 taxable income amounting in total to $l,000m. If in fact we had carried out the policy, as newspapers expected us to do, of a third each year over the 3-year period this would not have amounted to more than $400m. So there is great benefit to the Australian people because we have implemented in this first Budget the policy which the Prime Minister announced last year. 
The Leader of the Opposition took objection to what we have done in this regard. I will remind honourable members of what the Leader of the Opposition said in his Budget speech 12 months ago. He said: 
Why should it be beyond the wit of the Government to devise modifications which redistribute the burden without loss of revenue? 
In other words, he believes that we should increase other taxes so as to permit reductions of personal income tax rates. That, of course, is what we have done. The new impositions are on what one might regard as items which can be selected by individuals and for which they are entirely responsible. 
I move on now to social welfare. I know that the Government is being criticised because the addition to the pension is only 50c.  Sir, I  point out to the House that over the last 5 years the increases have been $3.50 for a single pensioner and $5,50 for a married pensioner couple. If increases in the consumer price index had been applied the increase over that 5-year period would have been $2 and $3.70 respectively for a single pensioner and a married pensioner couple. If we go back to 1949 and 1950 when we came into office and formed a Government we note that by merely following the consumer price index the pension today would be $10.25 for a single person and $20.50 for a married couple. Today it is $5.25 and $7 more respectively for those groups than the consumer price index would suggest. 
But we have to take other factors into consideration because this Government has introduced a number of social service measures which I believe have been of tremendous value to the pensioner group within the community and tremendously costly to the Australian public. These arc, if I might briefly mention them, aged peoples' homes, free medical benefits, free hospital benefits, mother and guardians allowances for widows, single age or invalid pensioners with dependent children, supplementary assistance for single pensioners paying rent or board, subsidies for Meals on Wheels, a comprehensive home care programme, allowances for education for pensioners' children up to 21 years, and telephone rental and radio and television concessions. Pensioners receive for the concession rate of $4 a combined viewing licence which costs ordinary people $20 a year. The total cost of all the items I mentioned is in the vicinity of $140m to S150m per annum and that is approximately 20% of the total cash payment to pensioners. If we were to calculate 20% of the total cost of approximately $800m, it represents, on average, for a married couple, an additional $5.50 per week and for a single person an additional $3.10 per week. 
Therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I suggest that the Government, in presenting this Budget to the Parliament and to the people of Australia, has shown a very high degree of responsibility. 1 believe that the people of this country will reject what the Leader of the Opposition said on Tuesday night and which was given great prominence in the Press. It is not to be expected that, in a developing community such as Australia, with 12.5 million people spread over 3 million square miles of country, with 54% of our population living in 6 capital cities, high expenditure on the development of Australia's natural resources is avoidable. I believe it is essential that the Government take from the people, by way of taxation, sufficient resources to carry out, with due economy being applied, the essential things which should be done. We should leave in the hands of the taxpaying public of Australia the maximum that is possible for them to use in the way in which they believe they should use it. We should not adopt the policy which the Leader of the Opposition and the Labor Party adopt, which is to take the maximum from the taxpayer, let governments spend it and then let the people have an absolute minimum of their own. 

Order! The honourable members time has expired. [Quorum formed.] 
I rise to support the Budget in principle, although I disagree with one or two factors that are mentioned in it. I want to make some comments in regard to the general presentation of the Budget. In his Budget Speech the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  said that he was presenting a balanced Budget, and in this regard one who is considering the fiscal policy of the Government takes into consideration the general principles of economics that govern the presentation and the fulfilment of a Budget and of a policy. It is easy enough for any group or section in the community, or for the Opposition in a Parliament to say that it is not satisfied, that this should be done, that that should be done or that additional finance should be made available in the Budget. This is something that can be said very easily by people or a group who have no responsibility for the financial aspect and the final financial achievement. In considering this Budget, whilst there may be certain sections in it and certain factors which may be criticised, to my mind what  must be  looked at is an overall picture of ultimate achievement for the economic security of the country. When we look at this Budget, covering as it does all the aspects related to Government policy, we can see that it is directed to balancing demands and receipts. One honourable member opposite passed a remark today thatI thought was most appropriate and should be considered by all honourable members. The honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  said: 'It is the people's money that the Government is using.' I think this is something that should be given very careful consideration because when from any or all quarters there are requests for financial assistance these requests should be considered in the light of the fact that the only money a government has available to use is money taken from the people of the community by some form of taxation. So I say that there is not an unlimited supply as far as any government is concerned. One other comment that the honourable member for Sturt made was that people are important. I think this should also be given consideration. People are important, and in presenting this Budget the Treasurer has given consideration to people and to the effects that this Budget will have on all sections of the community. So, as I said when I was opening my remarks in support of the Budget, those are considerations that must be in the back of our minds when we give either commendation or criticism of this Budget. It is my intention to make further comment when this House reassembles and to go into detail in regard to some of the criticism that I have of this Budget. I also intend to make some comments in regard to the factor of law and order that has been mentioned previously in this House. I now ask for leave to continue my remarks at a later date. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
The House may recall that when I commenced  speaking  on the Appropriation Bill(No. 1) 1970-71 on Friday I stated that Bill was a presentation of the economic policy of a  government  taking into consideration all the factors related to the responsibility of the government to look after the fiscal policy of the nation. Before developing my thoughts on the Budget itself I would like to comment about the advance of tourism in this country. A great deal of thought is being given to this subject. One factor that contributes to the advancement of tourism is the availability of television sets in motel rooms. But, asI understandit,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  if a hotel or motel has a television set in each room it has to have a television licence for each set. I think there should be some rationalisation so that there is a basic charge for so many sets. A price could be assessed and it could vary according to the number of sets. The imposition of a licence fee for each television set should not be accepted. There are times when the sets are not being used.It might be argued that the cost of the licences for television sets in hotels and motels is covered in the tariff. To this degree the money comes from people touring or staying at the hotel or motel. 1 think this matter should be looked into and a different decision made. 
I want to make a brief comment on education. Later on I will have more to say about the Commonwealth's entry into the field of education. I think that the State Ministers for Education and the Commonwealth Minister for Education and Science  (Mr N. H. Bowen),  together with the heads of their departments, should set up a committee of which the Ministers themselves are members, and confer with the aim of introducing some rationalisation of examinations and the standards for the various forms and classes in each State.  Sir, I  realise that there is some co-operation in this field but there is a danger - and I will go further into this later - of the Commonwealth entering more and more into State activities and so having more and more control. I realise that there is an advantage in co-operation but I would not like to see the Commonwealth Government take much greater control of the education system throughout Australia. Too much centralisation of control in any sphere is a disadvantage. The education system is an important matter and it should be under the control of State governments with regional areas within the State department concerned. 
In some quarters there has been criticism of this Budget but, as I said on Friday, any budget can be criticised and anybody can say that more money should be given for this or that or something else. If my memory serves me correctly, when I first entered this Parliament in 1952, the Budget reached 1,000- $2,000m - for the first time in the history of Australia. The Budget presented by the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  a couple of weeks ago was of the order of $7,883m. There comes a time when expenditure must be seriously examined. Running through the Budget speech and the presentation by the Treasurer, wc see certain of the factors which contribute to the increase in the total cost of the Budget. For example, in relation to the expenditure, the Treasurer said: 
Total expenditure this year is estimated at $7,883 million, an increase of $795 million or 11.2 per cent. 
It is interesting to compare the total expenditure for this year with that of last year. The increase last year was $5 19m or 7.9 per cent. I want briefly to cover some of the departments and some of the factors involved in this expenditure. Under payments to the States, which is outstanding in this year's Estimates, there is a very large increase. The Treasurer said: 
These payments, including the funds required for the State works and housing programmes, are estimated at no less than $2,708 million or $291 million more than last year. They will absorb onethird of this year's Budget and account for more than one-third of the estimated increase of $795 million in our total expenditures this year. This represents a massive diversion of the nation's material resources to help meet the needs of the State governments. 
The Treasurer proceeded to detail some of the expenditure to the States and the taking over of certain financial responsibilities. He concluded by saying: 
Much has been said in the past year about the working of our Federation. May I suggest that the very magnitude of the provision we are making in this Budget for additional payments to the States is proof of our real desire to ensure effective working of the Federation. 
I would agree with that, but there is also an urgent necessity for a conference of Commonwealth and State authorities. This is a field in which, with the complexities of government at the moment, there is need for a conference whereby there can be discussion of how we can make the Federation in which we live work more effectively. 
The proposed expenditure of $l,137m on defence is 3.1 per cent greater than the expenditure in 1969-70. Social welfare payments will account for $ 1,820m. I mentioned earlier that the first Budget that was introduced in the House after I become a member provided for a total expenditure of l,000m. Today we see the social welfare provision amounting to almost that total. I believe it would be advantageous to increase further the amount of pensions. I regret that in the Cabinet discussions that preceded the Budget it was not thought possible to be able to increase pensions beyond the amount provided. However I should hope that at some later stage an opportunity might be found to do so. Consideration should be given also to various other aspects of our social welfare programme. The tapered means test, supplementary assistance, homes for the aged, sheltered workshops and Meals on Wheels have resulted in increased expenditure on social welfare. These facilities work to the advantage of those people who are in receipt of age pensions. I appreciate that the pensioner who lives in the metropolitan area and who is faced with a high rental charge for a room is certainly in difficult circumstances. I believe that it is through the provision of the tapered means test and the other facilities I have mentioned that we can assist him more than through granting a broad increase in the actual pension payment. The homes for the aged, sheltered workshops and Meals on Wheels have far greater value to a pensioner than even monetary increase in his pension. This is one of the fields in which the Commonwealth Government should concentrate in assisting these people who are in need. 
I have already congratulated the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten)  on the moves he has made in relation to the men who have served in Vietnam. We have a tremendous responsibility to these men and I believe that there must be further investigation and consideration of repatriation assistance for them. I have received a few telegrams from people on this subject. The telegrams were most interesting. One that I received reads: 
Please introduce amendments to the Federal Budget to (a) provide an increase in the old age pension of $5 a week per pensioner and (b) reduce  the  expenditure on defence by the amount incurred in the increase in pension payments. 
It is obvious, of course, that it is impossible to move an amendment to increase the amount of the pension payment. This would mean defeating the Budget. There are many reasons why I would never do that, particularly with the political situation in Australia and the international situation being as they are at this time. But it is interesting to note that to increase pensions by more than the proposed amount would require a reduction in defence expenditure. Anybody who has any thought for the safety of Australia would realise that this is something we cannot do, because the most important thing in this world to us at the moment is the defence of Australia. 
I would like to refer to the comments made by members of the Australian Labor Party and some trade union leaders - I say some because there were many decent, sensible, intelligent union men who did not go on strike last Tuesday - in support of the strike called by the Australian Council of Trade Unions as a protest against the Budget. The hypocritical attitude of the Australian Labor movement was evidenced in the fact that it called on ,his strike - and a few of the members of the ALP here supported it - knowing that the strike would have no benefit, knowing that it was completely and absolutely a political trick and realising - or they should have realised - that it would also make a contribution to increase costs. As I said, I might have thought more of some sections of Labor if they had objected to the Budget but had not carried out this farcical strike. 
When my colleague the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Pettitt)  was talking about a reduction in the working week to 35 hours the honourable member for Batman  (Mr Garrick)  made the following interjection: 
That is what they said when the 40-hour week was brought in. 
May I point out to the honourable member for Batman that whilst w. do not oppose these things there is certainly a time and place for them. When the 40-hour week was introduced that was not the time and place for it because it was one of the major contributing factors to the inflationary spiral that commenced in those days. 
I spoke earlier about education. Besides providing indirect assistance to the States for education Commonwealth expenditure specifically related to education is expected this year to exceed $3 12m, which would be an increase of $63m or 25 per cent. This shows exactly how much the Commonwealth is prepared to assist in this field. I comment briefly on the assistance to woolgrowers, because this was something that was also covered in many aspects by my colleagues. This Budget proposal shows again the continuing interest of the Government in woolgrowers and the appreciation and understanding that the Government has of the problems that confront the woolgrower. 
There has been criticism of the increased charges to be made by the Post Office. One only has to look at the expenditure of the Post Office on capital works and on meeting increased costs to which the Post Office itself is subject to realise that these are factors that pose a problem in the running of the Post Office and in keeping the charges down. I want to make a brief comment in regard to the Postal Department assisting with telephone services in country areas. As intimated, the position will be that the Department will construct and fully maintain the telephone line from the exchange to the subscriber's property up to a radial distance of 15 miles at no cost to the subscriber. Beyond this distance the subscriber will be expected to pay $40 per radial quarter mile as his contribution, with the Department paying the balance. The revised conditions will also be extended to upgrading private sections of subscribers' lines as the opportunity permits, and the new conditions will be retrospective to 1st January 1969. As one who is out in the country area and realises the assistance this will give to country people, 1 congratulate the Postmaster-General on this move. We have had many discussions with him on this matter and I am glad to see that the Department has been able to bring this about. There are other ways in which the Postmaster-General's Department can assist decentralisation, but again the real problem is the problem of increased costs. 
The Leader of the Country Party, the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen),  spoke the other day about the European Economic Community and the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. Many times I have spoken in this House about the urgent need for what I have called the major industrial countries to assist the major agricultural countries. I have said that there is not much point giving assistance to some of the newly developed countries and the underdeveloped countries and seeing the value of that assistance lost because an underdeveloped country cannot sell its products on the world market. In this regard I. think GATT itself is of vital importance to every country in the world. I include the United States of America and the European Economic Community. Those countries which are in a major position in the world in regard to industrial and perhaps even agricultural production must realise that one of the contributing factors to stability in the world is to see the smaller nations being given an opportunity. All the words that we might utter will be of no value unless we also take a step to assist in the economic sphere. 
For that reason, I believe, the United States of America, as well as the United Kingdom and the countries of the European Economic Community, has an interest to see that GATT works, lt is not merely a matter of the Minister for Trade and industry putting forward a proposal that is of advantage to Australia alone. He is putting forward a proposal that brings sanity lo this economic and international situation in which we find ourselves at the moment. I would sincerely hope that the leaders of those other countries will pay attention to his words and that those who are responsible and in control in the European Economic Community and those who are responsible and hold responsible positions in the sphere of international trade will realise that these words are spoken by a man who has had - I think I. can safely say - more experience in the field of international trade than any other man in world politics today. We know the battle that he has put up on many occasions, not only for Australia but also for New Zealand and the other countries in this Asian area, against a lack of thought and lack of vision by countries such as the United States and, I am afraid, in certain instances the United Kingdom and other European countries. That is why I believe there is an urgent need for a fuller and deeper consideration to be given to the matters of international trade and that a conference of GATT members and other countries in other spheres of international trade should be held as quickly as possible. In 1957 I had the privilege to attend the meeting of the United Nations in New York when the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development was established to assist developing countries. All of those people who had the opportunity to take part in that conference know that its aim was not only to help these smaller and undeveloped countries but also to contribute to international trade and international understanding in the world. 
The next matter that I would like to mention has been referred to in some instances by some of our news media in a rather cynical manner - the matter of law and order. It has been inferred that in certain instances this Government is merely using this issue as a political weapon to try to establish itself and regain some of the popularity that some of these people say it has lost. Let me say this: A Budget is something that can be altered, that can be improved upon, that can be criticised; the safety and security of this country cannot. I would say that there are many times when the excuse that we are undermining freedoms is used by those who themselves would desire to undermine the freedom and security of this country. In the case of some of these conscientious objectors the Government has endeavoured almost to bend over backwards to try to help them. In the recent case of the young lad who was before the court, consideration was shown by the magistrate. The magistrate did everything that he could to assist and this young man refused to make any comment. I am afraid that that would make me question the sincerity of that young man. 
We saw in this House some people - and I use the word 'people' in the broad sense - chain themselves to the aisle rails in the public gallery. The only thing that those people have achieved is to stop visitors to Canberra entering the public gallery and seeing the : Parliament in session because, as a result of the action of those people, visitors to the public gallery have been unable to sit in the aisles at a time when, because of school holidays, seating accommodation in the public gallery is under pressure. I hope that the people who did this and who achieved nothing by so doing will recognise that possibly, by the stupidity of their actions, they have stopped some youngsters being able to enter this House and to see this House in action. 
I hope that, in the broader sphere of our international policy, we will give serious consideration to participation in the Asian Parliamentarians Union. I think that this is a group through which we can play an important part. Asia is a significant area in our region and in the world. It is an area in which the role that we can play is tremendously important. I know that a number of conferences are held but the meetings of the Asian Parliamentarians Union are at the parliamentarian level. Surely, while it is important that conferences between Prime Ministers, Ministers for External Affairs and various other 
Ministers are held, it is important also that parliamentarians themselves should get together at gatherings where they might be able to discuss some of the problems and the difficulties that they face. 
Might I come back to one of the comments, cynically put sometimes by members of our media, in the last couple of weeks in relation to the question of law and order. First, I wish to quote portion of a speech made by the Minister for External Affairs  (Mr McMahon)  when he spoke in this House on Tuesday, 25th August 1970, during the discussion of a matter of public importance concerning Vietnam and Indo-China. In that speech, the Minister said: 
Let me mention first of all this question of international action to achieve peace. What have we been doing to achieve peace and who have been the opponents of the peace movement? It must be known that our objectives are clear cut and that we are willing to come to an accommodation provided only  2  objectives are achieved. The first one is that we should have a just and fair peace. . . . 
The Minister ges on to ask: 'What has happened?' He says: 
Let us look at what we have done. 
Over and over again, the plea has been made: Make some concession or offer to the North Vietnamese and, in time, they will come to the conference table and will come to a just and sensible settlement'. What happened? The bombing of North Vietnam ceased. Immediately afterwards, a conference was called in Paris. With what result? 
The right honourable gentleman goes on to list a number of concessions that were made. The achievement was nil. 
I bring again before the notice of the House a comment made by the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  when speaking on this subject of law and order on Thursday, 27th August 1970. The honourable member said: 
Let us remember the Are bombs that were thrown into the General Electric Co. building in Melbourne. Nobody seemed to be terribly concerned. It appears that it is quite all right in this country to throw petrol bombs into a building. It does not matter that there could be people in that building or that, if a fire broke out, those people could be killed. It would not matter if that fire spread to other buildings. 
The honourable member for La Trobe continued by quoting one or two further examples of recent happenings in this regard. 
I had the privilege of travelling in Asia with a priest of the Roman Catholic 
Church who had just been released by the Communist Chinese. That man was a wasted figure; fortunately, his mental capacity was still there. These are the things which happen, ls it remarkable that honourable members who are against the policy of the Government quote only that which is in their interests and not that which is in the interests of the policy of the Government? ls it remarkable that these people put forward only that which would assist their claims? I think in one sense of the tragedy of the World Council of Churches commenting on the fact of food being sent to Rhodesia and saying that food should not be sent to Rhodesia, as well as a number of other things that it has said. Commentators criticise us and say that we are using this law and order issue only as an aid for election purposes. Might there not come a time when people will realise that this policy and thought of the Government is right not for the sake of an election factor but because it is for the safety and security of this country? The mere fact that we can lose democracy not because we are standing for these things and being firm against those protecters but because we are allowing them to take control should be of concern to us all. I ask my friend and colleague,  Mr Frank  Chamberlain, to give consideration to that aspect. If demonstrators wanted to be effective and really sincere they would observe the law. Let me refer to an article entitled 'Vandals hit Memorial'.  Mr Keys  said that unfortunately this could be blamed on the phoney peace groups, the moratoriums and such bodies. He said that by their self-styled anti-war activities they have created an atmosphere of danger for this country. 
Order! The honourable member for Oxley will cease interjecting. 

 Deputy Leader of the Opposition goes to sleep each night with the words ringing in his ears. The Leader of the Opposition said: 'The TSR2 will fly across the Indian Ocean and it will land at Woomera long before the Fill ever flies. To use the language of one I admire on the racecourse: If you were to back the Labor Party on form and on prophecy you would finish up with a patch in your tie'. Unlike the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition I want to have something to say about the Budget. 1 do not know why it was that the honourable member shied so clear of the Budget, but he did shy clear of it. He did not want to have anything to do with it. The Leader of the Opposition last Tuesday night made a speech on the Budget, It began with an amendment and it finished with a hope. In between the two there lay a quite amazing collection of words. In terms of a speech it could be described as being meretricious, quite reckless and plainly specious. The speech was the speech of one desperately in search of power, and as a consequence of that desperation the honourable gentleman did not greatly care what restraints disappeared, what responsibilities were spurned or for that matter what realities were trampled upon. The House will recall that for 64 minutes we listened to him. 
Order! I call the honourable member for Bendigo and the honourable member for Oxley, who are now interjecting, to order. 
Thirdly, the receipts tax exemplifies the fundamental fraudulence of Liberal budgeting. 
That was the charge made by the Leader of the Opposition - the receipts tax exemplifies the fundamental fraudulence of Liberal budgeting. That was the charge made by  Her  Majesty's Leader of the Opposition - fraudulence. lt is a very harsh word. It has a very precise technical meaning, and I propose to advert to it in a minute. It was not merely in respect of the receipts tax that the Leader of the Opposition was roused. He referred to all Liberal budgeting - and that with respect would include my friends in the Country Party - when he made his accusation about fraudulent budgeting. Fraudulence has a very harsh meaning and the Leader of the Opposition, as one of  Her  Majesty's counsel learned in the law, would surely be aware of the meaning of fraudulence. May I say what it means, because it is important as far as this argument is concerned, and it certainly is important as far as assessing the Labor Party's presentation in this debate is concerned. Fraudulence is a false representation made, firstly, knowingly; secondly, without belief in its truth; and, thirdly, recklessly, careless of whether it be true or false. That was the charge which the Leader of the Opposition levelled against the Government last Tuesday night - fraudulence of Liberal budgeting. We will see where the fraudulence lies. The honourable gentlemen went on to argue - and I will cite his own words as they appear at the bottom of page 467 and the top of page 468 in Hansard: 
There was no obligation upon the Commonwealth - no undertaking by the Commonwealth - to impose receipts tax. 
That is the  charge  which the honourable gentleman made - false representation made knowingly without belief in its truth, made recklessly, careless of whether it be true or false. Surely the Leader of the Opposition would be aware of the fact that before the High Court of Australia settled the matter of the validity of the receipts tax the 6 State Premiers of Australia asked the Prime Minister whether, should the tax be declared invalid, the Commonwealth would come to their aid. I will cite what the Prime Minister said. It is on public record. Let no person be under any misapprehension about it. This is what the Prime Minister had to say on the 18th November last year: 
Further at the request of all the State Premiers the Prime Minister and the Treasurer agreed to put to Cabinet a proposal that in the event of the present taxes being found invalid in some form or all respects the Commonwealth should pass legislation on a uniform basis imposing a like tax and enabling the States to receive it. 
No mention of that was made by the Leader of the Opposition the other night. Is that fraudulence of Liberal budgeting? I say to the honourable gentleman that that charge deserves to be repudiated. If  ever  there was a fraudulence of presentation the fraudulence of presentation came from the Leader of the Opposition last Tuesday evening. Not one mention was made by the Leader of the Opposition of the fact that all the State Premiers had asked the Prime Minister to assist them. The honourable gentleman must have known that. He knew it. He did not mention it. Was he careless about it? Was he reckless? To use the celebrated words, did he not have any belief in its truth? What the Premiers made to the Prime Minister in November last year was a plain call for help. No one person as of today can be certain of what will be tomorrow the fields of validity in the Commonwealth Constitution. This is one of the facts of political life, and no State Premier 3 or 5 years ago would have taken the view that the receipts tax would be declared invalid. The 6 State Premiers all asked the Prime Minister to do something about the invalidation of the tax and the Prime Minister gave an undertaking to do something about it. 
Let us look, in the light of what happened, at the display by the Leader of the Opposition on behalf of his Party. The 6 State Premiers, having gone through the experience of a court challenge and having found that a very sizable part of their objectives had been sloughed away, went along to the Prime Minister of the country and said: 'Please help us. We are in a difficulty'. The Prime Minister of the country said: Mf things turn out as you think they will, we will help you.' 
Should the Prime Minister having given that undertaking, say: 'No, we will do nothing of the sort.' Let every State Premier in this country be warned. What the Prime Minister did was to give an undertaking on behalf of the Commonwealth Government and - I would have thought - on behalf of the Commonwealth Parliament, that if during this difficulty this event did come to pass assistance would be given to them. 
I want to move on to other illustrations of fraudulence on the part of the Labor Party as far as its presentation is concerned. During his speech the Leader of the Opposition made great play about a table which he said was a table which disclosed 'Budget impact on family income and spending'. He said: 
Naturally, the table involves a number of assumptions, even guesses, about probable family spending. 
Then he went on to say: 
But I suggest that the table is irrefutable as regards the general trend it shows. 
Since when is an argument irrefutable when it is based on a guess? If honourable members will look at the table presented by the honourable gentleman they will find out precisely how unsteady he really is in terms of his argument. The table was prepared obviously by a university which has more to do that merits real attention. This table, on a series of assumptions and - to use the language of the Leader of the Opposition - guesses which are trotted out as being irrefutable, argues one essential point. It says that as income goes up the expenditure on various items goes up - notably on petrol, cigarettes and so forth. There are some rather quaint conclusions, if 1 may say so. But it is upon this assumption that the Leader of the Opposition has built his case. An assumption or a guess is a rather strange sort of base, I would have thought, to build upon. Upon an assumption the Leader of the Opposition is prepared to try to build an arch of truth. I think that is a revelation of the sort of builder that he really is. 
But let me illustrate some of the points that the honourable gentleman has made. He said, amongst other things, that those persons with an income between 7,000 and $9,000 will pay an extra $13.40 in petrol tax a year. To those earning between $9,000 and $12,000, he pleaded to us to accept, it will represent an increase in tax of $17.10, and to those earning more than $12,000 it will represent an increase in tax of $15.40. Why is the amount less for those on $12,000 than those below $12,000? This I suggest points up the spurious nature of the honourable gentleman's chart. To take another illustration, he says that to those on an income between $2,000 and $3,000 a year it will represent an increase in excise tax of the order of $4. For those on over $12,000 it will represent $10.20. To my knowledge, my honourable friend the Leader of the Opposition himself docs not smoke. I mention this not in any way to ridicule the honourable gentleman but merely to advert to the vulnerability which permeates his argument and is the dominant characteristic of the table which the Leader of the Opposition says is irrefutable. This leads us towards the truth. Fraudulence of Liberal budgeting indeed. 1 submit again that it is fraudulence of Labor presentation. 
Let me take another illustration. The honourable gentleman said: 
Since 1947 the Commonwealth's debt has fallen; the debts of the States have increased. . 
He left the statement there, plainly implying that the Commonwealth was completely and utterly disinterested in the position of the States. There is no mention of what my friend the Treasurer had to say in his Budgel Speech. For the sake of accuracy I will read what the Treasurer had to say on this matter. He said: 
We shall also bc meeting debt servicing charges on $200m of State debt this year at a cost of S12m. and on a further (200m of State debt in each of the next 4 years. This will lead to the formal transfer of $ 1,000m of State debt to the Commonwealth in June 1975. 
There was no mention of that by the Leader of the Opposition. 1 come back to the definition of fraudulent behaviour - a false representation made knowingly without belief in its truth, reckless or careless as to whether it be true or false. Surely the Leader of the Opposition knew about that, or are we to assume that he condemned the speech of the Treasurer without having read it? The next thing with which 1 want to deal as an illustration of the fraudulence of Labor presentation as far as this Budget is concerned, is the approach of the Leader of the Opposition to the question of revenue and expenditure. The House will recall that the Treasurer during the course of his speech said: 
. as the cornerstone of our policy, 1 am bringing in a balanced Budget. . . . 
What is the implication to be drawn from the speech of the Leader of the Opposition? He has completely rejected that argument. If honourable members go through the speech of the Leader of the Opposition they will not find one suggestion for a cut in expenditure. On the other hand the Leader of the Opposition proposes a number of rather expansive expenditures. For example, to my knowledge and belief there was no suggestion on the part of any person who has spoken from the Opposition on the Budget that the payments to the States should be cut. The payments to the States out of this Budget represent $2,708m. 
But let us look at some of the suggestions that he has made. For example, he said that petrol tax should be abolished - $79m. He said that postal charges are dreadful - S53m. Customs and excise - $31m - he did everything but paw the floor about that; sales tax - $20m. In relation to social services he left us with an unestimated amount as to how much would be involved. Civic finances indeed - his own electorate which was referred to the other evening in a most conspicuously perceptive speech by the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  was shown to be the highest rated civic area in Australia. There was no mention of that. He grizzled like anything about education and said that not enough was being provided. Pollution control, urban roads, public transport, overseas aid - on it went. There was an unstated amount as regards rural industries. All of these can be taken together and added up. The most conservative estimate that a person possibly could come to, taking what the Leader of the Opposition has said, and propping it up for what it is worth by what some of his followers have said, is that to achieve his purpose the Leader of the Opposition would put Si, 200m onto this Budget. He has made no suggestion about cuts- 
Order! The point of order is without substance. I call the Minister for the Navy. 
I refer now to the only 2 suggestions made by the Leader of the Opposition during the course of his speech as to how he would find the extra $ 1, 200m. I ignore the fact that he did not suggest any cuts, but I hope that the House and the country will not ignore that fact. On sales tax, for example, the Leader of the Opposition said that sales tax should be a source of control. Goodness only knows what that means. Whether the honourable gentleman suggests that sales tax should be used so savagely as to control the purchase of motor cars and in fact to deny to people the opportunity to buy motor cars, he left us in a state of doubt. The second thing upon which the honourable gentleman did not elaborate was untaxed capital gains. He mentioned it. But let every person in this chamber and every person outside be under no sense of misapprehension as to what would be involved if ever the Leader of the Opposition had his way. He and the Australian Labor Party would commit themselves to a completely untrammelled policy of capital gains. This is the only inference that can reasonably be drawn from the speech made by the honourable gentleman. 
The sense of extravagance of the honourable gentleman would give one the impression that, by way of contrast, the prodigal son could well have emerged as the ardent savings bank manager of the Pharisees' bank.  His  sense of extravagance is such that, if he had the opportunity, complete and utter ruin would be brought to this country. The Budget presented by the Treasurer is a Budget introduced in tremendous difficulties with a state of drought previously unknown in this country. It is against that background that this Budget has been introduced. The Treasurer has said that the cornerstone of this Budget is the fact that it is a balanced Budget. The Leader of the Opposition would disturb it - and disturb to the nation's peril. 
Order! There are too many interjections. I have reminded honourable members on more than one occasion that interjections are out of order. 
What then of other forms of revenue? What has the Opposition to say here? The main alternative sources, other than personal income tax, are company tax and indirect taxation. The Government has raised all company taxation rates by 2ic in the dollar. The Leader of the Opposition has nothing to say on this either by way of criticism or commendation. He has, however, a good deal to say about indirect taxation. There was, he tells us, no mandate to increase regressive forms of tax. He goes on to speak of a massive change in the balance between direct and indirect taxation. Firstly, it must be obvious even to the Opposition that the commitment to reduce the burden of personal income tax implied some change in the balance between direct and indirect taxation. It was never suggested that the Government could reduce its expenditure commitments or cease paying its bills. 
On the second point, it is surely nonsense to suggest that the reduction in personal income tax proposed this year will lead to a massive - I use the word of the Leader of the Opposition - change in the balance between direct and indirect taxation. Personal income tax collections had grown much faster than other forms of tax over a period of years and it was necessary to restore some balance by reducing personal income tax and replacing it with other forms of revenue. In 1960-61 indirect tax collections accounted for about 42 per cent of the total Commonwealth tax collections. Last year - 1969-70 - the proportion was 34.2 per cent while for 1970-71 it is estimated that indirect tax collections will represent 34.9 per cent of our total tax collections. This is scarcely a massive change, and clearly it goes only a relatively small way along the path of restoring the 1960-61 situation. It is also important to bear in mind that the indirect tax increases do not apply to basic necessities such as food, clothing, and rent, but to limited classes of other goods. 
Overall we have a situation where the Opposition advocates massive additions to Government expenditure, whilst on the other hand opposing the Government's indirect taxation measures; moreover, whilst the Opposition adopts a critical stance towards the income tax reduction, I doubt very much whether it would seriously advocate a retention of the old levels. We are left, then, with the usual story of proposals for unlimited expenditure, unmatched by any readiness to face up to the discipline of responsible budget-making - in other words, unmatched by any readiness to answer the question - the fundamental question before this House - how is it all to be financed? 
How, then, can these two themes of which I have spoken be drawn together? Let me first remind the House of the functions which the Commonwealth Budget must serve. It is the instrument for carrying out the Government's policies in the fields of social welfare, health and education, defence, the development of the nation's resources and other essential areas. A Budget also has profound economic effects. This follows from its sheer magnitude - the flows of revenue and expenditure involved are equal to about one-quarter of total gross national product. In practice therefore each Budget is designed to contribute to an overall economic strategy, aiming, in the context of developments within the economy and expected developments over the year ahead, at perpetuating strong economic growth with full employment, a minimum of disruptive inflationary stresses, and a sound balance of international payments. 
What, then, was the economic context in which the 1970-71 Budget was framed? For most of 1969-70, the trends were unequivocal. The labour market was tightening rapidly and there was disquieting evidence of increasing pressures on costs and prices. The effects of these pressures were becoming evident in an accelerating trend in the consumer price index. Some easing of this situation was brought about in the last few months of 1969-70 by the effects of monetary measures directed towards making money dearer and scarcer. But, at the end of July persons registered for employment remained at less than 1 per cent of the work force. 
On the demand side dwelling constructions were substantially affected. This was a consequence in large part of the vulnerability of the permanent building societies to a liquidity shortage, following their massive lending activities. Other forms of demand continued to advance strongly right through 1969-70, with a particularly strong trend being evident in the June quarter. Meanwhile price and cost increases have as yet shown no sign of slackening. The consumer price index continued its acceleration in the June quarter, reaching an annual rate of increase of just over 5 per cent. 
Clearly this Government with a sense of responsibility could not have afforded to bring down a Budget which would provoke inflationary pressures. This consideration led the Government to adopt an overall strategy of balancing the 1970-71 Budget. That meant a domestic surplus of about S550m or $50m more than last year. Within these constraints, we were able to budget for significant increases in all major categories of expenditure. 
Now we find the Opposition, as I have mentioned before, simply advocating larger increases in expenditure all round, and objecting to measures designed to increase revenue. How can this be reconciled with the needs of responsible Budget-making? There have been complaints that we have taken from one pocket by these increased taxes and charges what we put into the other by way of reduced personal income tax. But this is a shallow viewpoint and the people who express it seldom go on to spell out a responsible alternative. 
One final point needs to be emphasised, and that is that the Budget is not merely a vehicle for advancing the Government's policies. As 1 have indicated, it has to be framed in the light of developments in the economy and expected developments over the year ahead, and it must make a basic contribution to the Government's overall economic strategy, aiming to perpetuate strong economic growth and to maintain stability in the economy and the balance of payments. But this requires the accommodation of policy objectives within the constraint of sound economic management and which is the approach adopted by the Government. The views of the Leader of the Opposition might have merited more serious consideration had he shown some similar recognition of the need for responsibility in the formulation of Budget proposals. 1 commend the Budget to honourable members. 
Order! 1 might remind honourable members that there is I standing order which they have not even contemplated changing. 
I call the honourable member for Bradfield. 
Order! Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
The Government has decided to revise the structure of the pay scale of officers of the. Armed Services up to and including full Colonel and the equivalent rank in the other Services. A balanced pattern of increments and of margins between ranks will be introduced to replace the present unsatisfactory pay structure which docs not adequately reflect the increase of responsibilities with rank. The size of increments will increase progressively through the officer ranks and will be paid annually instead of, as in many instances at present, after each 2 years of service. Generally speaking this will enable officers to reach the maximum pay for their rank more quickly than at present and. in addition, the margins between ranks will more adequately reflect the differences in responsibility. Although the revision of the structure is directed towards improved arrangements within the general officer pay scale, the restructuring will result in varying pay increases to all officers but in particular will benefit those in the junior command appointments who will receive increases upwards of 5 per cent as will some senior command appointments also. 
The new scale of pay will take effect from the first full pay period in September 1970. The restructuring of the pay scale will cost approximately $2.4m. This restructuring is supplementary to the pay increases for this group of officers which occurred 13 months ago when rates were increased by 9 per cent at a total cost of approximately $4m per annum. A second decision is that, when in future there are adjustments of salaries in the executive and administrative area of the Third Division of the Commonwealth Public Service, and provided any change is a general movement and not a structural adjustment of particular classifications, the salary scale of officers of the Armed Services below Brigadier level will be simultaneously adjusted. Already, for some years the pay of brigadiers and major-generals, and their equivalents in other Services, has been consolidated into salaries having a defined relationship with salaries in the Second Division - the higher executive and managerial area - of the Commonwealth Public Service. The rates of pay of Service medical and dental officers, however, will continue to be separately determined as before. I announced increases in their pay earlier this week. The Government's objective is thus to ensure for the future that salary benefits accorded civilian employees of the Government in the area described are also shared by officers of the Armed Services. The pay of other ranks, unlike that of officers, is being subject to continuous review and adjustment as a result of the grouping of the various skills of servicemen and women into the appropriate categories, and the alignment of skills with comparable areas in industry where pay increases have been occurring as a result of the determinations of industrial tribunals and other authorities. As a result of this system, other ranks have, in the past 8 months, received pay increases worth $7.23m per annum. 
I have directed that a full review be submitted to the Government of the composition and structure of the continuing allowances over and above salary or base pay which are paid to all servicemen and women or groups of servicemen and women. The object will be to permit clear comparisons with scales of emoluments in the rest of the community and to aid understanding of the true value of the benefit contained in servicemen and women's allowances. In this latter connec tion the soundness of the tax exemption which applies to certain allowances, as against the alternative of an adequate overall level of taxable allowances, will be examined. Because of the present complexity of the allowances of some 85,000 members of the Armed Services, reform of the system in a manner best calculated to produce improved administrative efficiency with proper regard to the interests of the servicemen and women themselves will be a lengthy process. Moreover the time necessary to put into effect any simplified system that may be recommended will be made greater by the necessity to introduce new programmes into the Services' electronic data processing system. Having regard to this unavoidable passage of time the Government has decided that within the present system it should make an increase at this time in allowances without awaiting the results of the detailed examination of the allowance system best suited for the future. In consequence the Government has decided to increase the service disability loading from 50c to 75c a day. It is estimated that this decision will involve an annual payment of $7.75m to all ranks in the Armed Services. 
The new rates of active pay for officers, which with the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate in Hansard, include the increase of 25c a day in the service disability loading. The new rates are as follow: 

<graphic href="069131197009033_39_12.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="069131197009033_40_13.jpg"></graphic>

The combined cost of the new scale of officers pay and the increase in the service disability loading is estimated to be $10.1m a year. Junior officers and those at the more senior level will therefore receive a total increase of upwards of 7 per cent on their current rates. 
I present the following paper: 
Armed Services Pay - Ministerial Statement, 3rd September 1970. 
Motion (by  Mr Peacock)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 

The question before the chair is, That the Bill be now read a second time'. For the question say aye, against no. I think the ayes have it. 
Order! I suggest that the honourable member for Grayndler restrain himself in referring to a member of this House. I think that it would be wise for the honourable member to withdraw his last remark. 
Let me conclude on this note: The substance of the matter introduced by the honourable member for Lilley in this discussion today is dangerous in the extreme. It has the fundamentals of Hitler's policy. I know that you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  will not agree with that. As a churchman, you could not afford to be on the banned list under Hitler or anybody else. But this is the substance to be found in the matter raised for discussion. A great rally organised by the Australian Labor Party will be held in the Sydney Town Hall on 20th September 1970 in support of the aims, ideals and objectives of the Moratorium Campaign. At that rally will be men whose opposition to Communism is known from one end of Australia to the other. It will be supported by thousands including the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  I ask this House today to debate this issue that the honourable member for Lilley has raised, to place the facts before the Australian people and to let them know that these smearing and innuendo tactics have no place in our public life and that the type of legislation and restrictions that the Liberal Party would seek to force on the Australian people must be rejected and opposed by every democrat in the nation. 
Order! The honourable member for Hindmarsh will cease applauding. 
Order! The time allotted for consideration of the proposed expenditure has expired. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Department of the Treasury 
Proposed expenditure, $83,068,000. 
Advance to the Treasurer 
Proposed expenditure, $20,000,000. 
Order! The time allotted under the 
Standing Orders for discussion of the motion has expired. 
Question put: 
That the  allotment  of time be agreed to. 
Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the 5 measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Order! Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
 Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Order! It being 11 p.m., in accordance with the order of the House of 26th August I shall report progress. 
Progress reported. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Trade and Industry. It is supplementary to the question asked by the honourable member for 
Chifley. Is it not a fact that the attitude of the United Kingdom and Europe to the European Economic Community could be a death blow to international trade agreements such as the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade and could be extremely detrimental to the newly developed and under-developed countries, thus nullifying assistance given to those countries by international agencies and setting back the progress that has been made in recent years in the field of world co-operation in regard to trade? As this would be, in the long term, detrimental to countries such as the United States of America and even Europe itself, will the Minister continue to press, as he has been doing, for an international conference on matters of world trade? 
Order! That is not a point of order. 
There has been criticism of the general rate. It has been said that the general rate has not been increased. I can understand this criticism. However, at least the special compensation allowance has been increased by $1 a week which means that about 70 per cent of pensioners on the 100 per cent 
Tate  will be receiving $18 a week. This maintains the value of the 100 per cent pension as at 1964. War widows generally willreceivea 50c increaseinpensionand war widows with 2 children will receive an increase of $2.35 a week under the provisions of this Bill. 
There is no substance in the point of order. The honourable member for Sturt will resume his seat. 
Finally, the provisions of the Repatriation Bill of course will not satisfy everybody around Australia but the fact of the matter is that this Bill will enact the decision of the Government. The Government considered other aspects of repatriation and not only the areas in which improvements have been made. Of course the Government studied them, but in the light of the Government's overall policy the Government decided on the increases that have been made. These amount to a considerable sum of money. Total expenditure by the Repatriation Department for this financial year will be $335m, which is a fair sum of money in anyone's language. This is an increase of about  6  per cent on last year, which in view of the general economic objectives and policy of the Government represents a reasonable increase in the expenditure of the Repatriation Department. I do not think that the Opposition amendment can be assessed in terms of cost. We have already set up a committee of review. It commenced work last Monday. I am sure it will do a thoroughly efficient job and a much speedier job than an independent inquiry would do. I remind the House that the Canadian people had an independent inquiry which took  4  years to complete. We do not intend to take anywhere near that time to complete our review of the system. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr Barnard's amendment)  stand part of the question. 
Order! - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I want to talk for a few minutes about the Department of Primary Industry and the Department of Trade and Industry. Firstly I would like to congratulate the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Alan Fraser)  on a speech that he made this evening. He must be very worried about the next election and the Country Party candidate who will be opposing him. As my friend and colleague the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  says, he has reason to be. The honourable member for EdenMonaro dragged a red herring across the trail in the debate on this section of the Estimates and concentrated an attack upon the Country Party and its members. So I congratulate him on a good political manoeuvre in the situation in which he finds himself of being able to direct the attention of the people in his electorate away from the basic principles under discussion in these estimates. I also want to say something about the speech of the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  particularly in relation to the European Economic Community. The Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen),  the Leader of my Party, does not really need to be defended in respect of a speech he made in this place nor does he need to be defended in relation to the services he has rendered to Australian trade, particularly in the international field. In the comments of the honourable member for Oxley I think he lost sight of many of the points relating to the European Economic Community. I think there are a number of dangers inherent in this arrangement that are being lost sight of by many people. One of these dangers relates to Australian trade. But that in itself is only a small danger in relation to the danger in the international field posed by this group of nations. 
The monolith of political power is centred in Brussels. Political implications are involved. Anybody who has made a study of this will realise that one of the driving factors is the attitude of France towards the United States of America. France has not been favourably disposed towards the United States for quite some considerable time. We know that France feels that in this matter she has an answer to the tremendous strength of the United States. This is one of the aspects of the European Economic Community. If the United Kingdom enters this Community she will suffer a loss of sovereignty. The people of the United Kingdom should give very careful consideration to this before they take the final and ultimate step in joining that association. I relate all these things because they are part of the total set up. 
In regard to the economic factor in the United Kingdom's entry 1 have said in this House on a previous occasion that I do not feel that the United Kingdom can take the advantage of the European Economic Community which she anticipates. The European countries will be taking a far greater advantage of the secondary industry section of the Community than Great Britain can take by her entry. As I say, Great Britain should look very closely at this before she makes her ultimate decision. The honourable member for Oxley referred to statements by the Minister for Trade and Industry. I think he lost sight of the point that was made by the Minister, that over a number of years there has been this movement towards a fuller appreciation and understanding of the need for international agreements. That does not mean that all countries have to forget their own positions, but within that framework there must be some discussion, some compromise and some acceptance of a certain degree of sacrifice by the various countries for the good of the whole. 
The honourable member for Oxley inferred that the Minister for Trade and Industry had never made any concessions or compromise as far as Australia is concerned. That is not correct. There has been a certain amount of criticism of the trade agreement that the Minister entered into with New Zealand by people in Australia who said that he was giving away too much. I am not making a point either in favour of or against that statement. These are statements that have been made that show that what the honourable member for Oxley said was certainly not factual. My main purpose in speaking this evening on these estimates is directed towards primary industry in Australia. I feel that a great deal that has been said about costs has been said in attacking the problem from the wrong direction. One of the major problems facing us is the increasing costs which are creating difficulties for Australia, particularly in the primary industry field, to compete on overseas markets. This raises the problem of increased costs within Australia. 1 feel that a conference should be called of those who are interested - I would think that almost all sections of the community would be interested - who hold responsible positions. I feel that this would be of advantage to the trade union movement. If we can keep costs steady the cost of living will not go ahead and there will be no necessity for an increase in wages which in turn would put the cost of living ahead again so that there would need to be another call for an increase in wages. 
 One factor to be considered in this regard is the calling of a conference between trade union leaders, manufacturers, big business interests and the Government. This might be a little outside the normal course of events. I do not desire to see the value of the arbitration system nullified in any way. I believe that in the specific circumstances in which we find ourselves in this regard, this is something we should look at. In regard to the interjection by the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard)  may I say quite frankly that I am not happy in regard to price control. It has many difficulties and many complications. For this reason alone some method should be worked out whereby, without a direct price control, we could achieve more or less the same thing as we could achieve by price control. My personal feeling is that one of the difficulties in relation to price control is that it nullifies any degree of competition which might result in one manufacturer endeavouring to make a better article than another. It might be argued that this is exactly the same thing as is achieved by monopolies. I even accept that there is a point in that argument. 
I feel quite frankly that in the situation in which we find ourselves today we have to do something which is a little different from what we might do in the normal course of events. By doing this there will suerly be an advantage to all sections of the community. I have spoken to quite a number of Labor people who will accept the fact that the increase in salary they will get is of no value to them because, in the end result, they will be worse off than they were before they received the increase. We have been discussing the effect of the cost of living. We have been looking at the problem of trying to give increases and meet rising costs. Perhaps the best thing we could do would be to look at this matter to see if it is not possible to stop the spiral going ahead and, if possible, to start it coming back again. That is the reason why I said, on the occasion of the increase in interest rates and petrol charges through the excise, that I was not happy about this and I felt that while we were receiving increased income from excise and the increased interest rates were making money harder to obtain, there was a danger of these things contributing to the cost spiral rather than holding it back. 
In relation to increased interest rates, broadly speaking, there is a danger that money made available at a greater cost is easier to obtain by those industries or sections of the community that we might call not so necessary' spheres of industry. They make it harder for the man who is battling to hold the line to obtain money to help him advance. This relates particularly to the primary producer. It is no good making money available to the primary producer if it is going to cost him too much to use that money to get ahead. We have had an example of this in recent years. There has been a drought and now in some areas where they have suffered the drought they are suffering flooding. This shows the problems that are faced by the man on the land. Those problems are completely outside his control. In regard to primary production one thing that we have to consider is that if we are talking about increasing the standard of living in countries such as Asia by providing food for those people then we must maintain the food production and primary production in this country. If we allow primary production to fall, as anybody who has had any experience in this field knows, it is impossible to bring areas or people back into production overnight. 
When we talk about primary production and decentralisation let us remember that it is not only the primary producer who is affected by these things but also industry, the shopkeeper, the factory and these other groupings in country areas. Perhaps this is one of the reasons why the honourable member for Oxley was so much in favour of the European Economic Community; it represents a centralisation of power and policies. For the reasons I have mentioned, we are opposed to this centralisation of power. I also believe that we need to look at the inflationary spiral not so much to work out what to do to meet the costs but to consider some of the things that I have suggested might reduce the costs. 
I suggest that if the honourable member for Hunter aud the Minister for the Navy want to talk about the prison situation in Queensland they go outside the Committee to do it. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

Order! The time allotted for consideration of the proposed expenditure has expired. 
Proposed expenditures agreed to. 
Department of Education and Science 
Proposed expenditure, $129,478,000. 

 Mr BEAZLEY (Fremantle) . (3.8) - I move: 
That the proposed expenditure for the Department: of Education and Science be reduced by $2 as an instruction to the Government that it should: 
use ils good offices to secure the immediate publication of the Commonwealth/States survey of .educational needs and make emergency grants accordingly; 
establish committees to examine and make recommendations on - 
the objectives and quality of Australian education, and 
GO  inequalities of educational opportunities, and 
establish continuing commissions to investigate and make recommendations on - 
pre-schools, 
primary and secondary education, 
tertiary education; such a. tertiary commission to co-ordinate all forms of tertiary education . including teachers colleges, and 
the co-ordination of all levels of education. 
Commonwealth intervention in the field of education, while it has been tremendously welcome, has nevertheless been sporadic. There was an intervention in the establishment of scholarships. The demand for those scholarships has increased enormously without the number of scholarships being significantly increased over the same period of time. There was the establishment of the science block assistance scheme and now we have had the incursion into migrant education. But the Commonwealth has not looked at the problems of education in the systematic way which we, for a long time, have felt to be necessary and, as a consequence, we are moving this amendment. Honourable members will note that we are also asking for a look at the objectives and quality of Australian education. 
Education might be denned as that development of the personality which takes place as a result of the individual's learnings, and the personality might be defined as the sum total of our attitudes and aptitudes. I suppose that technical education has especially to do with aptitudes and general education has especially to do with attitudes although scientific education can also produce attitudes and we cannot really sever the personality artificially like that. But we are not asking, and we have not been asking in Australia for a long time, what are we trying to do wtih our educational system - what are the purposes of education? We have a system which just grew. It grew out of the English traditions in education which began, in its very inceptions I think, with the idea that a classical education was the education of a gentleman. We have not asked ourselves whether wc are educating for national efficiency or whether we are educating for a sane and stable community - what we are trying to do with education. We just have a traditional system which has grown. 
We believe that it is now necessary for the best minds thinking into educational problems to take a look at the question: What are the objectives of education? They should then start reforming the educational system accordingly. I do not think the point about inequalities of educational opportunities needs stressing. In the Government's form of assistance there are some quite tragic features. The poorest convent school - if we consider the private sector of education - the resources of which are actually a minus because it may be having to feed migrant children, as is done in certain of the poorer areas of Melbourne, gets the same per capita grant as Geelong Grammar School which, in point of fact, in terms of need does not need any grants at all. A Christian Brothers college which charges a fee of $60 a year and nothing for the third son gets the same degree of assistance as one of the grammer schools near my electorate where the fee charged is over $600 a year - and this would not be a high fee for a day boy by comparison with some of the schools in the eastern States. The same thing is true if we look at the State sector of education. There is absolutely no idea of eliminating inequalities in educational opportunities. 
I do not think we can rush into this and carry through a Commonwealth educational scheme aimed at helping to smooth out these inequalities. What we are asking for is a really systematic effort to think into these inequalities and to remedy them. This is why the amendment has been moved. Then there is need for a tertiary commission to co-ordinate all forms of tertiary education. 1. suppose - and I am speaking now of Western Australia - that just about all of the people who have had a tertiary education and who want to be teachers are offering themselves for teaching. I understand that 47 per cent of the people who have a tertiary education are offering themselves for teaching. I think that some of the explanation that we make for the very great leakage in the teaching profession - namely that the salary is not attractive enough - is not the full explanation. I believe that the inadequacy of our Commonwealth scholarships system is one of the explanations why there is a tremendous leakage of those who have trained as teachers and who do. not pursue their profession. 
A teachers bursary or a teachers bond is a way someone may graduate in science, economics or commerce. But a number of the persons who graduate in this way have never had an intention at any stage of pursuing a career in the teaching profession. When their training has been completed, some of them may be prepared to forfeit the bond or to spend whatever time is necessary in the profession to discharge the bond and leave the teaching profession. Their real objective was to use the teachers bursaries as a  means  io obtaining a higher education. 
I think that this is a consequence of the fact that we have never really looked at the whole field of tertiary education and co-ordinated it. We do not have any scheme for co-ordinating all levels of education. The growing vote for the organisation which calls itself DOGS- the Defence of Government Schools Organisation - is also a sign of a growing conviction about the neglect of State schools in the poorer areas of our country and failure to establish an educational system which will eliminate inequalities in education. I very much suspect that it is the younger section of the community which votes for the Defence of Government Schools organisation. In the recent Chisholm by-election die vote for this organisation was approximately 9 per cent of the total vote. 
I believe that this is symptomatic of the very serious concern that is developing in the community for privilege in Australian education. This is a particular marked feature in South Australia and Victoria where educational snobbery was always more powerful than it was anywhere else. This is a sign of the discontent of so many of the people whose children go to State schools and who feel that the whole Commonwealth attitude towards State schools is one of neglect. These people believe that State schools are treated as though they had exactly the same problems and exactly the same needs as those schools - either State schools in the very well to do areas, new and modern State schools or private schools - which are quite well endowed and where the student body attending the State schools can afford to pay high fees. 
I wish to make one passing reference to the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, which also comes within the estimates that we are discussing. I believe it is time that, in the CSIRO, a method of promotion was devised which would eliminate one factor of discontent. The factor of discontent is that, following the usual procedure in government departments to promote people in terms of seniority, we find at the head of research departments people whose capacity for research has disappeared and who are beyond the age of new dynamic research ideas while those who are in the process of their most fruitful thinking are lower down on the scale. These people are the ones who feel that they are not getting value for their services while other people with obsolete skills, skills that are obsolescent or who are past their research prime are in a position of superiority. This must be an enormously difficult problem in any scientific department. But the complaints about it are fairly widespread. I believe that it is something that needs to be looked at. 
However, I wish to turn attention back to the feature in my amendment which asks about the quality of Australian education. I do not think that we have any longer a clear view of what we are intending to do with colleges of advanced education. Some of them in some of their aspects are moving towards taking on the functions of teacher colleges. Some of them are tending towards being a kind of university. I do not imagine that originally it was intended that they should be degree conferring bodies. But I believe that no doubt exists that some of them are evolving in the direction of universities. We have not clearly formulated what we intend to do with colleges of advanced education. This is one other reason why there should be this look at the purposes of what we are doing in education, as my amendment asks. 
Finally, the other request in my amendment to which I wish to refer is the one which asks that the Commonwealth should:  use its good offices to secure the immediate publication of the Commonwealth/State survey of educational needs and make emergency grants accordingly. 
This request is directed not so much at the rather platitudinous statement which emanated from the Commonwealth-State conferences but at what must lie behind it and what must have been perceived in the discussion about educational needs. and the need for the Commonwealth to make emergency grants to meet the problems which the States themselves have said they are encountering in conducting their educational systems. Australian education has advanced in certain waves. We had one wave of advance in about 1911. We had a wave of advance immediately after the Second World War. A good deal of our thinking now has exhausted itself. It is time that we started looking at education and at what it should be for the rest of the century. This is the purpose of the amendment that I have moved in relation to the discussion of these estimates. 
Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
Order! The honourable member for Deakin- 
The honourable member can claim to have been misrepresented when the Minister for Trade and Industry finishes his speech. 
-Order! 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Progress reported. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Order! It being 11 p.m., in accordance with the order of the House of 26th August, I shall report progress. 
Progress reported. 
Order! The time for the consideration of the proposed expenditure has expired. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Department of Labour and National Service 
Proposed expenditure, $14,088,000. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering these measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
Order! The honourable gentleman's time has expired. 

 Mr SNEDDEN (Bruce - Minister for Labour and National Service) - 1 wish to make a personal explanation. I was misrepresented by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  when he said that when 1 spoke about the CMF alternative I did not recognise it as an alternative to national service. The fact is that I did not mention it because of limitation of time and I had so many other matters to put in rebuttal of what the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  said. I do assert affirmatively that the CMF is an alternative. 
Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the 4 measures? There being no objection I will allow that course to be followed. 
Is the amendment moved by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports seconded? 
Order! I suggest to the honourable member for Newcastle that he withdraw that phrase. 
Order! It being 11 p.m., in accordance with the order of the House of 26th August, I propose the question: 
That the House do now adjourn. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. Is the amendment seconded? 
ls the amendment seconded? 
Is leave granted? 
It being 11 p.m., and in accordance with the order of the House of 26th August, I propose the question: That  the House do now  adjourn. 
1 present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Humble Petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth: 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Order! lt being after 11 p.m. and in accordance with the order of the House of 26th August I propose the question: 
That the House do now  adjourn. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
Order! I point out to the honourable member for Adelaide that we have already voted on the motion that the question be put. The question has already been put and the House has agreed to it. We are now dealing with the further motion. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Order! I do not want to stop the honourable member from making his speech. But as he pointed out earlier, the Bill before the House is merely for a retrospective payment of bounty. I do not want the debate to develop into a full scale debate in regard to superphosphate fertiliser, the price paid to the farmer, and matters such as that. 
Friday. 23 October 1970 
My question is directed to the Postmaster-General. I have received a number of complaints about the reception from regional radio station 2TR in areas a little outside Taree. T ask: Are investigations being carried out with a view to increasing the power of this regional station? ff investigations are being carried out can the Postmaster-General inform me what stage they have reached? 
I suggest that the honourable member for Bendigo should listen to some of the speeches that are made in this House that he evidently does not listen to. He would then know that on occasions some honourable members do noi address another honourable member through the Chair. But the point of order is valid. 
Is it the wish of the House to continue with the second reading debate forthwith? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
J have received a letter from the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  proposing that a definite matter of public importance be submitted to the House for discussion, namely: 
The Government's inaction in preventing the serious damage to the environment which results from noise, from pollution of air and water and from destruction of flora and fauna.  1 call upon those members who approve of the proposed discussion to rise in their places. (More than the number of members required by the Standing Orders having risen in their places) 
Order! It being 11 o'clock, in accordance with the order of the House of 26th August, I propose the question: 
That the House do now adjourn. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
Sitting suspended from 11 to 11.30 p.m. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
Unforeseen  expenditure late in the financial year. However, the evidence also shows other cases where clerical errors, lack of adequate communications within the administration and misunderstandings between some departments and their clients have affected expenditure adversely. These factors, together with requests made prematurely, in some cases, for funds from the Advance to the Treasurer have resulted in significant proportions of the funds sought from the Advance remaining  unspent.  The detection by your Committee of these cases has been assisted substantially by the pro-forma developed in 1966 for the guidance of departments in the preparation of evidence. 
While defects discovered in administrative arrangements have been drawn to the attention of the departments concerned throughout the report there are some matters to which specific attention should be drawn. As the report shows, there is a need for the basis of practices connected with letters of credit associated with overseas purchases to be examined by the Department of the Treasury and by other departments and authorities concerned. On several occasions in recent years your Committee has encountered the problems, including .staffing losses, that confront departments when transferring their administrations to Canberra. Your Committee believes that a clear responsibility rests with the permanent heads of such departments to recognise the problems that can arise and to ensure that they are minimised in the interests of efficient administration. The evidence shows that departments that provide computer services for other departments and statutory authorities should ensure that adequate training is provided for the staffs of such departments and authorities in the interpretation of  output  data from computers. Other evidence tendered in our inquiry shows a need for departments to act in such a manner that their image and that of the Public Service generally is protected from public criticism Finally your Committee would draw attention to factually conflicting information tendered by a department in its submission and by its witness in evidence. Your Committee has taken this matter up direct with the department concerned. On the broader issue of the general quality of evidence submitted during inquiries, and to which reference has been made in previous reports, your Committee notes with satisfaction that on 16th October the Secretary to the Treasury issued a circular to all permanent heads indicating the need for witnesses to be properly briefed and for evidence tendered to be of the highest quality. I commend the report to honourable members and move that it be printed. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
)- Order! I suggest that as the honourable member has circulated 3 amendments to this clause he might ask for leave to move them together. 
The  CHAIRMAN  - There being no objection, leave is granted. 
In sub-clause (1.), paragraph (a), omit 'from day to day, or'. 
After paragraph (b) of sub-clause (1.) insert the following paragraph: (ba) If the Commission buys the wool at the appropriate reserve price it will make arrangements so that the grower whose wool is bought is paid within fourteen days; and' 
At the end of paragraph (c) of sub-clause (1.) add 'at the best possible price'. 
On the first of these amendments, I wish to refer the Minister to his second reading speech. This is an important point. There is no question that there is inconsistency here. The Minister says in bis second reading speech: 
Under the - scheme reserve prices for the various types of wool offered at auction would be determined daily or at less frequent intervals. 
That can only mean daily or more than daily. The point I raise is that the wording in the Bill is 'from day to day, or as frequently as the Commission thinks necessary'. That could mean by the minute or by the hour. There is no question that there is a definite inconsistency between the wording in the Bill and the wording in the Minister's second reading speech. According to the second reading speech, it is fairly clear that the reserve prices would be determined from day to day or at less frequent intervals. According to the Bill, the reserve prices would be 'determined from day to day, or as frequently as the Commission thinks necessary'. That is the main reason why the words 'from day to day' in the Bill are superfluous. If the reserve prices can be determined as frequently as the Commission thinks necessary, technically they can be determined every minute and there is no need for the words 'from day to day*. But if what is stated in the second reading speech is the correct interpretation, it is quite a different matter. 
The second amendment concerns subclause (a) which relates to the Commission purchasing wool when it does not reach the reserve price. The clause contains the words: 'the Commission is prepared to buy the wool'. The Commission cannot say that it will purchase the wool because it does not have compulsory powers of purchase if the buyer does not want to sell the wool. As I see it, there is no provision to pay the broker or the buyer. I suppose it can be said that this is implicit, but this is the principal reason for the amendment to provide that when the Commission purchases wool it must pay somebody within some time limit. We believe such provision should be contained in the legislation so that the Commission can pay the broker, buyer or the grower under accepted commercial terms in the wool industry - that is, prompt payment within 14 days. 
Is the amendment seconded? 
Order! The level of conversation in the chamber is still far too high. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

Order! There is no substance in the point of order. 
The question of censorship is a matter of opinion as to where one draws the line. At this stage  1  refer to the decision of the South Australian Premier to allow 'Portnoy's Complaint' to be printed and distributed in that State. But even he has been quick to say: 'We do not want South Australia to become the State for dirty books. We are not going to print everything here.' It is interesting to contrast this view with the view of some honourable members opposite who. enjoy being in. opposition because they do not have to shoulder responsibility. Perhaps this is an extravagance on their - part. Again I say that the question of censorship is one of personal opinion. 
On a number of occasions the Minister has referred in public addresses to the subject of violence. In a speech to this House last June he said he is not too happy at the fact that every time a movie is shown in which sexual exploits occur he or his Department receives hundreds of letters from protesting parents, yet do not receive any letters at all about violence in movies. Being a member of this House and knowing many other members of this House I would say that if I were . to receive hundreds of letters on any subject, no matter whether 1 was a Minister or a backbencher, I would sit up and take notice. 
I have referred to the subject of violence. It was interesting to read in an article in one of Brisbane's newspapers at the weekend a report by the State Minister for Justice,  Dr Delamothe.  He said that the incidence of crime for each hundred thousand of population was decreasing; but he went on to say that a world wide pattern was that the number of crimes involving assault and violence was on the increase and happening here. Some of the movies that I have seen outside Australia are well and truly violent. The violent scenes which the censors have cut out of films sent to Australia are nothing in comparison with some o_the violent acts which can be seen on the screen overseas. In Australia we have been protected from this in the past, yet the number of crimes involving violence is increasing. It is only in the last few years that the incidence of violence has been well and truly on the upturn, yet we have had television since the latter part of the 1950s. I wonder whether it is purely academic to associate so closely the question of violence with what people see on the screen. This was suggested by the Eisenhower Commission on the Causes and Prevention of Violence some years ago. 
Unfortunately my time is running out, but I should like to throw in a few thoughts on the question of 18-year olds and granting the proposed R certificate for films. As honourable members know, it is proposed that over 18-year olds will be able to view films carrying an R certificate. I question seriously the ability or, more importantly, the will of State governments to police this aspect of the law. I come from a State where 21 years is the minimum age for people to drink in hotels, yet one can go into a hotel in Queensland on almost any day of the year and see 18-year old drinkers. Every now and again the police arrest a few in order to put on a display for the public, but the apparent policy is that so long as the people are not worrying they are left alone. As 18 years is the minimum age for people to drink in hotels in New South Wales and as 18-year olds are drinking in hotels in Queensland, although the law provides a minumum age of 21 years, I wonder how we will prevent youngsters from going to see movies carrying an R certificate. 
I make the further point that we in Australia handle this age limit question with kid gloves. I recall being in the United States of America about a year ago. A fortnight after my 30th birthday I was in a hotel in the city of Chicago with a fellow Queenslander but the girl behind the bar would not serve us because she said: 'You are not 21'. Honourable members may laugh, but a few days later I was told to leave a bar in Los Angeles because I was not 21. Admittedly at the time I had long hair and was not dressed in the refined manner in which some honourable members dress, but the point is that in America the law is policed. In Los Angeles the licensee of the hotel said to me: 'Fellow, if I serve you I could lose my licence'. In 
Australia we just do not care. I suggest to the Minister that in the United States many of these films which carry an R certificate are aimed at the above 21 years old age group. Anyone below the age of 21 years is not allowed into a theatre to see a film carrying an R certificate. 
I hope that if the Minister believes in censorship he will work in the future to ensure that the States take this question of policing the laws seriously rather than allowing 14 or 15 year olds to see movies which are classified as being not suitable for them. If it is his opinion that an age limit should be imposed- whether it is 18 or 20 years - then he has an obligation to see that the law is policed strictly, because by imposing an age limit he is admitting there is a danger that something could happen to people under that age if they view a film which carries an R certificate. 
In conclusion I should like to make a brief reference to my home State, Queensland, which in 1963 banned an edition of Playboy'. Now, nearly 10 years later, all editions of 'Playboy' are still banned. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
 Order! I point out to the  honourable  member lhat the debate in  the  House is on ihe matter of censorship. While it may be allowable for the honour.able member to comment on censorship generally, he should not,  as  he  is  doing at  Ihe  moment, enter into a detailed discussion of  Ihe  subject matter which he is saying should not be censored by the Government. Therefore I think that the  honourable  member is debating a subject that is not before the House at this stage. 
Order! The honourable member is now referring to something that does not relate strictly to the subject before the Committee. The appropriation referred to in the statement before the Committee has already been agreed to. The discussion of share dealings and other matters touches on policy and is quite outside the scope of this debate 
Order! The discussion has now concluded. 
Last evening in this House the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  said that some of the members in the House were asleep. If he had taken note and thought of this discussion today I am sure that what he said would have been true as far as many members of the Opposition are concerned because it shows a complete lack of an appreciation and an understanding of many of the things that have happened in this House in the last few days, in particular of some of the statements made by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  I have in front of me a series of comments and answers to questions by the Minister relating to this matter of South Vietnam and our civil action policy, what we will do about certain aspects and what thought has been given to the future. There is a comment from the Minister in regard to there being no cut in civic action and there is an answer to a question asked by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  on this matter as well. 
The Minister made varied comment about what has been done in the past and what the Government intends to do in the future. I do not argue against criticism of these statements by the Minister or of the policy of the Government; nor do I argue against the right, which honourable members in this House have, to say that the Government is not doing enough or that it is misdirecting its endeavours. The matter of public importance refers to: 
The Government's failure to inform the Parliament on the future of the Australian Task Force in South Vietnam and its plans for civic aid and rehabilitation in Indo-China. 
I think that anyone who has given any thought or consideration to the situation in Vietnam knows that it is impossible to plan any action or any form of rehabilitation as one would after the cessation of hostilities. Therefore, while hostilities are proceeding, as they are at this moment, there can be only a potential for planning in this, regard. In these circumstances 1 certainly do not think that the Government can be dogmatic and say: 'This is going to happen', or 'That is going to happen'. The Government can have only a general overall plan, and I think that if the Parliament has a look at what has been achieved by the Government it will be seen that this is so. 
I then ask myself this question: What is the purpose behind the Opposition's raising this matter of public importance? I am afraid that one must come up with the answer that this urgency statement, worded as it is, is a smokescreen so that the Opposition may cover up for some- of the failures that are evident within the Opposition at the moment and also because it cannot come out with a direct and dogmatic criticism of what the Government has been doing. I believe that one of the major things we have to do in this situation is to sustain a degree of confidence in what Australia will do and in what the United States of America intends to do in this area. If one follows the speeches of, perhaps I should say, the majority of honourable members opposite one sees a constant thread of criticism levelled against the United States, the Australian Government and the Australian troops. There is no criticism or comment at all of what has been done by the enemy. 
Let me for a brief moment refer to the situation in Laos. I must confess that I am rather disappointed at the protest made by the World Council of Churches regarding the Laos action. It said that it is a flagrant violation of human rights. I remember speaking many months ago to an American serviceman who said that one of the tragedies in his experience was to see his comrades lose their lives because of the use that was being made of the Ho Chi Minh trail by the North Vietnamese and the Vietcong and the use that was being made of the so called neutral territory by the enemy, and to know that the Allied forces were unable to protect themselves and their comrades against this violation. 
 The honourable member for St George can say 'nonsense'. I was speaking to a combatant member of the forces who was there and who was able to say that this was so. Reference has been made in this House to the neutrality of Cambodia. As I have pointed out on other occasions, neutrality in this area is something that is used as a screen by the North Vietnamese and the Vietcong to the detriment of our troops who are engaged in the war in South Vietnam. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has said that damage has been done to Laos. What is the total position in Indo-China at the present time? Are the Vietcong, the North Vietnamese or the Communist forces completely innocent of any of the actions that have occurred in this area? 
Let us look at the peace talks in Paris. Every concession that has been made by our allies at the peace talks has been met by a further demand from the North Vietnamese or the Vietcong. I think this question has to be considered when we are talking about the total situation in IndoChina. All the stress on rehabilitation and all the stress and emphasis upon what we will do to provide aid and assistance to the people in South Vietnam will be to no avail unless the military position in this area is stabilised. 
The honourable member for St George referred to the work of the Australian Army and spoke sneeringly about what our troops were doing in South Vietnam by way of providing assistance. Let us look at what is happening. He said that the assistance was being provided only to win the support of the people, ls it not natural that you win the support of the people and even of the Government if you give to them a degree of security and stability? On the other hand, the enemy coming into South Vietnam is endeavouring to win support for its side by force and terror, and we have seen instances of this. The enemy has taken the head of a village and the villagers have not seen him again. This has been done to force the villagers to support the Vietcong. 1 emphasise that, according to honourable members opposite, all the wrong has been done by the United States and by ourselves and none of the blame for this situation in Indo-China can be laid at the feet of the Vietcong and the North Vietnamese. I ask the Australian people, having looked at the total situation, to judge whether such comments are correct. 
Not very long ago the leader of the North Vietnamese delegation at the Paris peace talks was interviewed in a programme on 'Four Corners'. She said: 'We know that the majority of Australians are against the war in Vietnam.' This statement was not contradicted by the interviewer. One might say that the interviewer should not have interfered in the programme, but I believe that at that point he should have commented because this programme was being televised throughout the world. In conclusion, 1 commend to this House and to the Australian people the final words of the Minister for Defence when he spoke of peace. I support him and, as I have said in this House before we desire peace with all our heart and with all our mind, but we desire a peace which will last into the future and give security and safety to the people of South Vietnam. 
Order! lt being 2 hours after the time set down for the meeting of the House, the debate on the motion is interrupted. 
Motion (by  Mr Swartz)  agreed to: 
That the time for discussion of the notice be extended to 12.45 p.m. 
The Dartmouth and Chowilla Dams have been mentioned on several occasions here today. The episodes that have taken place in the House in recent times make us realise just how difficult it is for the States to obtain agreement on these 2 projects. J understand that one State still has not agreed to the construction of the Dartmouth Dam. This, indicates the tremendous problems that arise when we try to take away from the individual States thenrights. The Commonwealth has a job to do - this is evident - but certainly the Commonwealth cannot take the initiative and do the job for the States, which is what this motion suggests. 
Although the 2 speakers from the Opposition mentioned the Ord River scheme on one or two occasions, they dealt mainly with projects on the eastern side of Australia. If a Commonwealth authority of the nature suggested by the honourable member for Dawson were established, it would follow the pattern of a number of other authorities. It would be eastern power based, if I can use that phrase. 
The Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation has been mentioned. I have point out in this House before - this is nothing new - that the headquarters of the CSIRO are based within one third of the Commonwealth, that is, on the eastern side of Australia. This is correct. Honourable members may check it if they like. I have been trying to get some recognition of the need for the establishment of a CSIRO centre in the west. This is the problem. If honourable members look at the distribution of drought relief moneys, they will find that whereas approximately $10Om has been spent in the eastern States, not $1 has been spent in the west. I would say that in relation to drought relief that if 1 per cent or 2 per cent of the total funds which have been made available to the other States of Australia were made available to Western 
Australia, the heartbreak, the difficult social problems and the economic problems facing farmers today would not be occurring. 
It is of concern to me that any national project usually is based on the eastern side of Australia to the advantage of that area of the country although the west of Australia is just as important as its eastern side. If the project mentioned in the motion of the honourable member for Dawson were instituted I have no doubt whatever that it would follow the same lines. I feel that a major policy decision that Australians must make is whether the States themselves and the local authorities themselves will be able to continue to do the job of work that they constitutionally are entitled to do or whether this responsibility will be based with a central government such as the Commonwealth Government. 
As I see lt, the Commonwealth has its job to do. But, in relation to the proposal that we are discussing, we should allow the States and their engineers to do their job. I feel that if the proposal contained in the motion moved by the honourable member for Dawson today were brought into being the functions of the States and the ideas of their engineers would be taken over. It could be argued against that view that there would be cooperation between the various institutions within the States and the Commonwealth. We have been concerned recently about costs within the State and Commonwealth Governments. At this point as I understand it - and I do not think the Minister for National Development would argue with this - we have the necessary machinery within the States. The engineers and others have been quite successful in carrying out work of this type within the States. When they have the resources to do this work, they have been very successful indeed. 
The Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority was set up to do a specific job. That is fine. But to set up a Commonwealth authority such as that suggested in the motion would be to duplicate completely the States' functions. Here again, extra expenditure would he incurred by the Commonwealth and the States to do a job of work which can be done by the engineers and by the machinery that are available in Australia today. I believe that the Commonwealth has to take a great interest in the water resources and the water development projects within Australia. The Commonwealth has the main financial strength to finance these projects, but it has not the power under the Constitution to take over the building or to make the decision as to what shall be done within Australia. Nevertheless it has its part to play. Where possible, decisions should be made by the States themselves. Where rivers flow from one State to another, projects should be coordinated between those States, as happened in the case of the Snowy Mountains Authority. No doubt this is being done. But the establishment of an overall authority by the Commonwealth to do this particular job is not constitutional and in my opinion is not desirable. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Darling) (12.38)- The establishment of a national water conservation and constructing authority, in my opinion, is long overdue. I support the remarks made by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  and the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby).  Because of the drastic cut in my speaking time, I will have to leave out very important matters with which I would have liked to deal. It seems to me that water is one of the most important necessary commodities. The quality and quantity of water available involve the life of every man, woman and child in the nation and decide the conditions of health and happiness in which they live in every town and village. The availability of water also decides the beauty of the life of many of these places. 
Every form of development that has taken place in this country was in the first instance dependent on water. Regardless of this, from a national point of view - and for that matter from a State point of view - water has been largely taken for granted and instead of harnessing and directing the waters of our great rivers and streams, in many cases we have destroyed and polluted them. Everyone knows that at times we have shown some good form on a stop-go basis and have produced some fine results such as the Snowy Mountains hydro-electric scheme. However, we should have made moves to initiate other national schemes. It seems to me that we should have taken some steps to develop, conserve and protect our inland waters. It is hard to enter a debate on the finer points of water conservation unless one possesses some qualifications to do so. But surely there is enough evidence before us to convince even the dullest that we are making no progress in harnessing, controlling and conserving our water resources. The only way to sum up the present position is to say that droughts are more severe and that floods are just as damaging. Most honourable members in this House have lived through many of these disasters. In my case I have seen more droughts than floods. But both of these disasters make one more conscious of the importance of water. 
I want to refer to an opinion which was expressed in the 'Inverell Times' as far back as 1 968. lt is as follows:   . . the growth of urban areas will mean that much of the water now being stored for agricultural purposes will soon have to be used for domestic purposes. It is very evident thai in the years to come, every means will have to be employed to ensure that no drop of water is wasted and that the bulk of the water used for domestic and industrial purposes is captured, treated and used again. We can also expect that the day will come when an economical process of desalination is developed, thus enabling great volumes of water to be pumped from the 3ea to the inland of countries like Australia. 
That indicates the importance of setting up a national water authority. There can be no doubt that in a nation comprised of 70 per cent arid and semi-arid land, where the threat of drought is always  present,  and in the State of New South Wales where 60 per cent of the area could be classified as being arid or semi-arid land, the need to have up to date information and therefore to be able to harness all the water resources on a national as well as on a State basis is essential. I have attended  meetings of the  Walgett Water Users Association and the Barwon-Darling Water Users Association, as well as having joined in discussions with representatives from the Darling Basin Authority. There can be no doubt that it is long past the time when plans should be investigated in order to bring the waters from the eastern slopes of the mountains to supplement the inland waters, particularly those of the central and western divisions of New South Wales. 
If the Liberal-Country Party Government had set out to destroy the Snowy Mountains Authority it could not have done a better job because the greatest design and construction team ever assembled in the Southern Hemisphere has been reduced to a consultative body. We should salvage what is left of the Authority and with its knowledge and experience make it the nucleus of an Australian water authority, which the Labor Party says should be established. The scheme put forward by the Barwon-Darling Water Users Association should be fully investigated, lt is based on a proposition put forward many years ago by  Dr Bradfield,  an eminent civil engineer, when he conceived the idea of diverting eastern waters to the west.  Mr John  W. Campbell, a consulting engineer of South Grafton, has made a close study of this proposition. He has put forward in detail a case for the diversion of the Clarence River waters west by the use of mountain tunnels and pumping. The Walgett Water Users Association claims that the capacity of the Clarence River gorge dam is greater than any other man made dam in the world.  Mr Campbell  has set out a comparison between the Snowy Mountains Scheme and a Clarence River scheme, and it may be beneficial to quote a little of it. He said: 
The Snowy Mountains scheme supplies water to three States whereas the Clarence River waters could be made available for irrigation in four States, viz. Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia. 
With regard to potential, the Clarence Valley would compare with the Snowy-Tumut development where the 2700 ft fall between Tumut Pond Reservoir and the outlet of Blowering Power Station is utilised, lt ls a question of a comprehensive investigation into a dual purpose scheme for both power and irrigation. 
He goes on to deal with the various advantages of the Clarence River scheme.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  in the short time remaining to me I want to say something about underground water. 1 believe that it is in this field that we are really missing out. 
Order! The time allotted for precedence to General Business has expired. The honourable member for Darling will have leave to continue his speech when the debate is resumed. The resumption of the debate will be made, an order of the day under General Business for the next sitting. 
Sitting suspended from 12.45 to 2.15 p.m. 
Is the amendment seconded? 
It is with a great deal of pleasure that I support this Bill. I want to make one comment in regard to the background of this flood mitigation situation and the comments that have been made about the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  and the early days of the presentation of the suggestion that the Commonwealth Parliament become associated with and responsible for flood mitigation. The present Leader of the Country Party has never opposed Commonwealth participation in flood mitigation. What he has opposed and what I have always opposed is the Commonwealth Government coming in and literally taking charge of and accepting full responsibility for flood mitigation. I think that the stand of the Minister for Trade and Industry and myself has been completely justified not only by the legislation which is before the House at this stage but also by the legislation that has been passed previously and the assistance that has been given by the Commonwealth in relation to flood mitigation. 
I can speak with some knowledge and understanding of this situation as 1 worked very closely with the Macleay Shire in the early days on flood mitigation. I know the work that was put in by local government people in that area on the presentation of the case for flood mitigation. This was in regard not only to the Macleay area but also the Clarence and Richmond areas as my colleague, the honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Robinson)  has said. A great deal of work was put into this legislative programme by local government authorities so that when it reached finality it was a perfect example of co-operation between Federal, State and local governments. To my mind this is one of the greatest points in the argument for decentralisation and centralised control. It runs along lines that I have been putting forward over many years. If we are to be successful in this country we must work continuously for this co-operation between Federal, State and local government authorities. 1 have been rather disturbed - and have stated so in this House; I have been highly critical inside and outside this House - about what I call an element of centralisation that is showing its head. More and more powers are coming to Canberra and there is to my mind less and less appreciation of the urgent need for State and local government authorities to have their say. It will be to the detriment of the Commonwealth and a danger to the progress and development of this country if the movement towards centralised control in Canberra accelerates much more because this legislation is complete proof of the success of Federal, State and local government cooperation. One only has to read the second reading speech of the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz),  to look through the Act and to think of the work that has been done in the introduction of prior legislation. In support of some of the things I have been saying I would quote the last paragraph of the 
Minister's second reading speech. He said: 
Honourable members will observe that the Bill does not contain provision for Commonwealth approval of the individual works to which the Commonwealth assistance is to be applied. The programme involves a large number of individual items including levee banks, river channel improvement and drainage works on 11 river systems. The proposals put forward by the State are subject to some amendment in the light of final investigation and design. We regard the final selection of such individual works as a matter for the State and the local authorities concerned. The Bill does, however, contain provision for the Commonwealth to be kept suitably informed about the works and to be furnished with information relating to expenditure and progress on the works. I have much pleasure in commending the Bill to the House. 
I have much pleasure in commending the Bill and the words of the Minister to the House. I would also like to congratulate the Minister on the work he has done and for following the steps of many illustrious Ministers for National Development who worked for the fulfilment of this legislation and this programme. I hope what I have said answers some of the criticism offered here of the comments of the Leader of the Country Party. 
I want to emphasise again trie necessity for this co-operation between Federal. State and local governments. The honourable member for Cowper when talking about this and the value of this legislation spoke about the damage that was caused by floods and the difficulty of assessing total damage and getting a full appreciation of it. As he said, if we see a house or building damaged we can say it costs $X, but there are those things that are intangible, things we cannot assess in terms of dollars such as the loss to a country area, the loss to a country town, the problem of communication, the problem of transport and the loss of time in an area relative to production, lt is not only a matter of the flood and the damage that is done at the time but also the loss of production during the flood and the period of rehabilitation and reconstruction afterwards. All these things have to be assessed. We have a full appreciation of what has happened even in the last 2 months in New South Wales and in parts of Queensland. During the flooding of certain areas of Queensland we had other areas almost next door that were still suffering from drought. This is an indication of the problems that are associated with the primary producer and the reason why legislation such as this is of such necessity. 
I want to comment in regard to the amendment that has been moved by the honourable member for Dawson. First of all, the amendment would delay the real value of flood mitigation work. It is suggested that a joint select committee of the Parliament be appointed to inquire into the practicability of the establishment of a national disaster organisation. I think this was answered quite effectively by my colleague the honourable member for Cowper when he said that that part of the amendment moved by the honourable member for Dawson was absolutely irrelevant to the legislation before the House. To my mind this shows a lack of appreciation and understanding of this legislation. I suppose one can understand that the honourable member for Dawson does not have an appreciation of what has been done and what is being done in other States. 
In my own State of New South Wales there is a very effective civil defence organisation/ In times of flood or other national disaster the civil defence organisation in New South Wales does a magnificent job. Those who have had an association with that body and who have seen what it has done will agree that it is geared to meet the problems referred to in the amendment moved by the honourable member for Dawson. I would not disagree with anyone who argued that there must be co-operation between the Federal Government, the State governments and local government authorities working through the civil defence organisation. The honourable member for Dawson said that there has been delay. If he cares to look at the situation he will see that in New South Wales the delay has been brought to an absolute minimum. After a flood it takes some time to assess what damage has been caused. The civil defence organisation is geared to move into action the moment a flood, a fire or other national disaster occurs. That is one reason why the amendment moved by the honourable member for Dawson is not necessary. 
I support the legislation that is now before the House, knowing something of the work and effort that has been put into this legislation by so many people. As I have already said, I pay tribute to those who have worked in local government for the success of this legislation - who have made people aware of some of the problems and who have helped to get back into full production, as I have seen happen particularly in the Macleay area, areas which for weeks were unable to maintain full production. I appreciate the full value of this legislation. I congratulate the Government on introducing legislation of this sort which will give encouragement to people on the land. This is further evidence of what can be achived by co-operation between the Federal Government, the State governments and local government authorities. Surely in matters of this kind local government authorities have a far greater appreciation of the circumstances and what should or should not be done in certain areas. I support the legislation. 
Sirring suspended from 5.54 to 8 p.m. 
Order! The Minister's time has expired. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I want to speak about 3 matters this evening, the first relating to the Department of Customs and Excise. 1 do not want to labour the point because I have had discussions with the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  and his departmental officers and I appreciate the situation in which they are placed. However 1 feel that owing to the particular circumstances of this case there is an obligation upon the Government to allow a vehicle to be imported into Australia without the usual payment of sales tax and customs duty. This case concerns a gentlemen in New South Wales who travelled to the United Kingdom to do particular work in that country, work that will be of advantage to himself and to the profession he follows. He took his wife and family with him and during the rime he was there he purchased a motor car, which was the obvious thing to do. During the time he was using this vehicle he was involved in an accident. It was not his fault but the fault of the other driver. The insurance company representative Looked at the vehicle and decided that it was not worth repairing, that it was a write off, and the company gave this gentleman another vehicle. In other words the company replaced the vehicle that had been damaged. 
I say that in those circumstances this was a replacement car which was not purchased by the person concerned, but when he returns to Australia in a couple of months time he will not have fulfilled the statutory period of 15 months ownership. 1 have approached the Minister for Customs and Excise and he has said that as far as the circumstances and time are concerned he has no discretionary powers. The Minister and his Department have put forward the argument that it is not possible to make a concession in one case because if they do that they face the problem of people in certain circumstances wanting to bring cars into this country perhaps a month before the required time. One example that was given was of people who went overseas and who, because of circumstances completely outside of their control, returned to Australia before the statutory period had expired. I appreciate all that; I have told the Minister so. However, I still believe that in the circumstances I have outlined - there was one vehicle only purchased by this gentleman, he was not responsible for the accident and it was the insurance company which replaced the car - morally it can be argued that this gentleman made a purchase of one car during the time he was overseas and therefore he fulfilled the statutory requirement of 15 months ownership. This gentleman, having completed the studies and research which were the reason for his visit to the United Kingdom will return to Australia in May. I say quite frankly and sincerely that 1 believe this person has fulfilled his obligation to conform to the statutory period. lft the circumstances he should be granted permission to bring his vehicle into Australia without having to pay the required sales duty and customs duty. 
The second subject I want to speak about is that of Commonwealth-State relations which has been mentioned by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon).  This is a subject which I have mentioned on a number of occasions in this House. Only last week 1 spoke about the danger of centralisation which is becoming more and more a threat to the progress and development of Australia. I also referred to the reduction of the power of State governments and local governments. From what was said by the Prime Minister I hope that this matter will be certainly more than looked at. I hope that decisions will be made. I also believe that consideration must be given to the Constitution and, if necessary, to altering the Constitution. I believe that the Constitution needs bringing up to date so that we can develop this country in the manner which was envisaged by our founders, with close association between Commonwealth, State and local government. The danger is that a decision could be made in Canberra by a person who does not understand the circumstances. I believe that sometimes a decision could be made by a person who might not have any political responsibili ties whatsoever- I am not criticising the Public Service, but a person in the Public Service who has no political responsibilities and who in this regard would have no responsibility to the public could make such decisions. On the other hand those of us in this House have responsibility and are answerable to the electorates we represent whether we be Ministers or backbenchers. I believe this to be one of the dangers of centralisation. As I have said before, I think it would be dangerous to allow centralisation to develop. I hope that the Prime Minister also will give consideration to a review of the Constitution which I believe is necessary. 
The third matter I want to mention concerns Bishop Crowther, that delightful person who is visiting Australia at present. I had the misfortune of seeing him on a number of occasions on Australian Broadcasting Commission television programmes in which he spoke about the proposed visits to Australia of South African football and cricket teams that will take place later on this year. The irony of this is in the fact that the comments he made showed a complete lack of appreciation of the total situation and made no contribution to solving the problems that are confronting the world at present. Lel us have a look at some of the things he said about non-violent protests. I ask whether the protest at the office of the Rugby Union organisation in Sydney a short while ago during which people threw bricks through windows and tried to destroy equipment was a non-violent one. The hypocrisy of much of this can be seen if we look at it and study it. When there was some suggestion of Miss Goolagong being invited to visit South Africa these people said that the South Africans would not invite her and, therefore, we should do this, that and something else. But when the South Africans did invite her to visit their country it was said that she should not go. If honourable members consider that situation they will realise that some of these things are completely and absolutely inconsistent. 
Bishop Crowther also has expressed solidarity with Black Power which relies on terrorism. At present no-one agrees with the apartheid policy of the South 
African Government. We are, in more ways than one. endeavouring to impress upon the South African Government and many of the South African people that this is not a wise policy. But this policy certainly will not be changed, nor will it be helped, by those people who are helping the terrorists to impose their will upon the situation. Bishop Crowther said that he could see no alternative to violent revolution in South Africa. It is tragic to see one trying to use his position to sow the seeds of a hatred that we are trying to overcome. When I was in South Africa I spoke to moderate African leaders and moderate African natives. They were terrified that one day the terrorists might take control and that their lives would be in danger. I would ask Bishop Crowther as I have asked many people to realise that this problem is complex in its nature and complex in its solution. Certainly the actions of men like Bishop Crowther will not help to solve the problem. I suggest that he should look at men like Sobers and Conrad Hunte, two men who are respected in the community, in world affairs and in the national scene, and who advocate a solution to this problem which is completely and absolutely opposed to what is proposed by this so-called bishop. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I apologise to you,  Mr Speaker,  and to the House for the remark I made during the speech of the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen).  1 should not have said what I did say, particularly in view of my position in this House. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
There being no objection, that course will be followed. 
Does the honourable member desire to incorporate this material in Hansard? 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Order! There is no substance in the point of order. 
The honourable member for Chifley, who has now left the chamber, mentioned a couple of other matters which I think should be dealt with. As I recollect, he used the expression 'around the lobbies', which is popular among honourable members opposite, when talking about the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon).  He said that he is the first Prime Minister to be opposed in Cabinet to the increase in the pension. Speaking for my colleagues, I do not think any of us know exactly what goes on in Cabinet. Even the honourable member for Sturt, with his power of insight, does not know. Nobody knows what happens in Cabinet, not even Government supporters. I reject as being totally untrue the statement that the Prime Minister is' anti-pensioner. It is really quite a ridiculous suggestion. 
The honourable member then went on to say that this 50c increase is far too little far too late. I make the point that this is an irresponsible statement. We have listened to the honourable gentleman for 20 minutes but, as far as I am aware, he has not put forward one concrete suggestion as to what he thinks should be the increase in the pension. What does the honourabe member think it should be  -  Si, S2 or $10? Whatever he thinks it should be he has to justify it because surely the Budget must be balanced. 
The honourable member went on to talk about dissension within the Liberal Party. This suggestion is really quite ridiculous. Of course we have dissensions but they are disagreements in relation to personalities. We do not have ideological differences, and honourable members opposite cannot make the same claim. We do not have lefts and rights, anti-Communists and proCommunists within the Liberal Party. The honourable member said that the Australian Labor Party increased social services. 1 think that statement is false. I am not sure in which year it happened but, as I recollect, the only government that ever reduced social services was a Labor government. I think that occurred in the 1930s, during the depression years. So I reject utterly the remarks made by the honourable member for Chifley. The honourable member expressed a great deal of concern for war widows. He said he did not want to denigrate war widows. I certainly hope he would not want to do so. He made the point that a lot of people were dying younger and that as a result there were a lot more widows in Australia as well as deserted wives whose husbands had left home, f think the honourable member also criticised the lack of pension provision for a deserted wife during the first 6 months of desertion. The Government takes the view that for the first 6 months the deserted wife is a State responsibility. This is a question of social welfare, and in fact we have all expressed concern about this situation. 1 remember making a speech in this place about an unmarried mother who was paid a social welfare benefit of 35/- a week. When she reached 19 years of age the benefit was increased to 40/- a week, and when she reached 20 years of age it was increased to 45/- a week. Honourable members oppo site cannot say that the Government is not aware of these things because it has made it possible for such a person to receive a full social service pension once it is established that she is genuinely deserted. 
I would like to make a few remarks about the second reading speech of the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth),  and about this legislation. I am pleased that the Minister is in the chamber to hear my remarks. The honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman)  referred to the fundamental review of social services and related pensions which is taking place and also the methods of adjusting such benefits. I would like to say to the Minister and to the Government that in my view it is extremely important that the review take place. We do not want any airy-fairy sort of legislation or review such as that which F am afraid honourable members opposite tend to think about. We do not want something which is tied to the average wage. In my view, we want something which completes our case, in accordance with which we have established social services on the basis of need. 
I would remind the House that the social services programme was established in 1905 on a basis of need and has been expanded ever since. One point made by the honourable member for Chifley with which I would agree is the necessity of recognising the need of the single rate pensioner. I have made, as no doubt the honourable member and others have, submissions to the Government to the effect that the single rate pensioner is the person in the area of greatest need. This is so whether the single rate pensioner is an unmarried mother, a deserted wife, someone living in what one could describe as genteel poverty, a widow or a widower. In any review of pensions I would like to see emphasis laid on the need of the person who is in receipt of one pension. 1 would like to see that rate of pension increased. 
Later in his second reading speech  -  I am sure he will not mind if I am slightly critical here - the Minister referred to 2 engines. He said: 
Price increases occur through excess demand, which makes possible sales at an increased price. Behind :his process there are  2  engines, a big engine and a small one. 
The Minister then went on to describe the small engine. He said: 
The small engine is the tendency of certain businessmen to increase their profit margin - that is, to increase their prices faster than their costs. 
I disagree with the Minister strongly on this. There are very few small businesses that  are  making any profits at all these days. I would say that most of them are lucky to break even. I do not think we can blame the small businesses for this. 
I think there is a tendency for people in this country to talk about the average wage. I do not really think that we should think in terms of an average wage because not many people receive the average wage or anywhere near it. Most people receive a wage of about $50 a week, and this is the most common wage. When we are being critical of the Government or are working out percentages surely it is reasonable to base our thinking on what is the most common wage received. I am sure that honourable members will agree that the pension received by the single pensioner is just over 40 per cent of the most common wage. 
In his second reading speech the Minister for Social Services dealt in some detail with the cost of living rise indices. When we examined the position last year we found that in money terms there was an increase in the cost of living figures of 49c for the married rate pensioner and 56c for the single pensioner. On this occasion the percentage is slightly higher. It seems to me that this is a responsible way for us to consider what the increase in pension should be. The honourable member for Chifley did not refer to increases in the cost of living in Australia. Flow else can we judge what the increase should be? How else can we make a judgment? This is the only way in which governments can fairly work out what the increase in the pension should be. 
In the time remaining I would like to refer quickly to the break-down in figures in case people disbelieve me about the value of fringe benefits. Honourable members will remember that I referred to the figure of $5, which is what the Government and those of us who support the Government claim is the true value of the fringe benefits. I shall quote figures for last year. I do not have figures for the current year. The pensioner medical service costs this country $161m, which worked out at $3.10 per pensioner. The nursing home benefits cost $3 6m, which was 80c per week per pensioner. The miscellaneous health benefits cost the country $2. 7m, which worked out at 6c per pensioner. The personal care subsidy, which is paid by the Government to those who run hostel type accommodation, church homes and so on, cost $1.6m or 4c per pensioner. Telephone, radio and television concessions cost over $8m or 17c per pensioner. Housing assistance cost over $25m, which worked out at 61c per pensioner. Last year the total cost of these social service benefits, which include health services, was in excess of $230m. Divided among the 1 million pensioners in the country, this works out at $4.78 per pensioner. I talked about $5. 
Order! As it is now 2 hours after the time fixed for the meeting of the House, debate on the motion is interrupted. 
There being no objection, leave is granted. 
Suspension of Standing Orders 
Motion (by  Mr Hunt)  - agreed to: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent notice No. 1, General Business, being considered until 3.5 p.m. 
Order! 1 think the honourable member is getting a little away from the terms of the Bill. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Leave is not granted for the incorporation. 
Preferential voting allows minority or splinter groups to decide the result of elections both for the member and the Government. This happened when the Communist Party preferences elected the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  in the  1961  election. Candidates with no possibility of winning influenced the result, thereby creating minority representation. Numerous examples could be quoted of manipulation of preferential voting in party interests and for factionalism and other reasons. The Government parties have benefited considerably in this respect, particularly the Country Party. Later in my speech I shall quote a few figures to prove my point. Where there are several candidates the position is more complicated. It is aggravated by the careless, or what is known as the 'donkey' voter, the person who votes straight down the ballot paper. It is true to say that candidates and even governments are elected by this type of voter. Parties that benefit from this type of voter have a vested interest in the preferential voting system. (Extension of time granted.) 
The Democratic Labor Party represents a very practical example of the manipulation of the preferential voting system and the election of minority governments, lt claims to be a Labor Party, picks candidates where possible to be first on the ballot paper and allocates its preferences to non-Labor candidates. Its objective is to prevent the Australian Labor Party winning seats rather than to win seats itself. It is to this manipulation of the voting system and preferential voting that the' Government owes its majority. In 'the words of Malcolm Mackerras, the Government is a second preference government'. Because of the exploitation of the preferential voting system as exemplified by splinter groups,  2  other changes are necessary - change in the voting method to prevent the' election of minorities and a draw for the position of a candidate's name on the ballot paper. I will deal with that later. Then there is the question of informal votes. Preferential voting aggravates this possibility, and the figures are staggering. 
Sitting suspended from 12.45 to 2.15 p.m. 
Electoral (Question No. 330) 
What was the number of informal votes in (a) each State and (b) Australia in each of the past 5 elections for (i) the House of Representatives and (ii) the Senate. 
What was the percentage of informal votes in each case. 

<graphic href="071131197104015_31_0.jpg"></graphic>

Electoral  (Question No. 2625) 
What was the (a) number and (b) percentage of informal votes in each electoral Division in Australia in the last Senate election. 
What was the (a) number and (b) percentage of informal votes in (i) each State and (ii) Australia in the last Senate election. 
(a)  and (b) 

<graphic href="071131197104015_32_15.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="071131197104015_32_16.jpg"></graphic>

For those who say that preferential voting is the only safeguard against the election of minority government, we have to accept the argument that every government elected between 1901 and 1918 in Australia came under this category. Such an argument cannot be supported. Also, are we to say that the 'first past the post' system which is adopted in 64 countries including Great Britain, the United Slates, New Zealand and Canada, indicates that they are governed by the minority? The point 1 make is that no self-respecting person would accept this point of view. With the concurrence of honourable members 1 incorporate in Hansard a question asked by me and the reply which sets out  the  countries which adopt the first past the post system of voting. 
Electoral  (Question Nil. I6K0) 
ls he able to say in which countries Parliamentary elections are conducted under the first-past-the-post system of voting. 
If so, which aic they. 
ff the information is not on hand, will he endeavour to obtain is as soon as possible. 

<graphic href="071131197104015_33_19.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="071131197104015_34_20.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="071131197104015_35_21.jpg"></graphic>

A review of the results of the 1969 elections showed that no fewer than 40 members of this Parliament and 35 or more than 50 per cent of Government supporters, received less than 50 per cent of the first preference votes. I refer particularly to the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Buchanan)  who received 32.07 per cent; the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King),  30.95 per cent; the honourable member for Canning  (Mr Hallett),  30.07 per cent; the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Maisey),  31.01 per cent; and the honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon),  28.47 per cent. On what basis do they claim - and this includes the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  who received 46.67 per cent - to represent the majority view of their electors? No wonder the Country Party wants preferential voting, lt is the complete negation of democracy. 
I do not intend to go over all of the electorates but mention that in the seat of McMillan the Australian Labor Party candidate received 42.11 per cent of the vote. In Wimmera the Australian Labor Party candidate received 37.55 per cent of the vote. In Canning the Labor candidate received 42.15 per cent and in Moore he received 41.80 per cent. Yet all these candidates were defeated by the minority vote candidates as I mentioned a moment ago. In all of the instances I quoted, the first choice of the people in the electorate was defeated. This in fact indicates support for the 'first past the post' system where a democratic election would have given the people the candidate of their choice. 'First past the post' voting is in everyone's interest. It is the simplest and most democratic method and gives to the elector the candidate of his choice without the complications of voting for candidates in order of preference in which the voter has no interest whatever. It will prevent splinter groups or parties polling only a small percentage of the votes yet holding the electorate and the nation to ransom. 
There is another factor supporting the demand for a change in voting and that is the huge percentage of migrants now in the Australian society who total about 20 per cent of our population. These people in the main come from countries where first past the post* is practised. 'First past the post' voting is not the be all and end all of democratic elections, but by the introduction of one-vote-one-value and the introduction of this system it is reasonable to assume that governments elected will be those chosen by the majority and not, as Malcolm McKerras described this Government, as 'a second preference government'. 
I will now deal with the final point in the Bill. Although it is most important, I do not intend to spend a great deal of time on it at this stage because I believe that it should receive general support. At present the position of a candidate's name on the ballot paper is decided alphabetically. This gives a decided advantage to candidates with names beginning with letters early in the alphabet. In fact, it is said that if a person wants to get into Parliament he should be born with a name beginning with 'A' or 'B Various estimates are given of the value of the No. 1 position on the ballot paper and it seems reasonable that it would vary between 3 per cent and 5 per cent. This is important so far as the careless or donkey voter is concerned. Election results indicate that the No. 1 position on occasions decides the election result. For instance, Miss Joan Rydon of the Department of Political Science at the University of Melbourne had this to say on the matter: 
In Federal Elections contested by the DLP a different order of candidates on the ballot paper could well have produced different results in two seals in 1955 and six or seven in 1958 and anything up to twelve in 1961. 
All candidates and all parties should therefore have an equal opportunity to this position, or the donkey vote. 
Splinter parties exploit the situation. Facts and figures prove my point in this regard. The Australian Democratic Labor Party exploits this situation to the limit. For instance, at the last Federal elections, in New South Wales alone that party had 32 candidates of whom 20 were placed on top of the ballot paper. The DLP found difficulty, however, in getting a candidate above Ashley-Brown who was the Labor nominee in Mitchell. I mention these facts in order to prove the importance of the situation. In the Senate elections a draw is made for positions on the ballot paper. It is recognised as fair and equitable and there appears to be no reason why the same principle should not apply in House of Representatives elections. There is no reason why a person named Smith, for instance, should be at any disadvantage with, say, a person named Brown in an election. At one time senators were placed on the Senate paper in alphabetical order. This applied until the late 1940s. The result was that late in 1938 in the Senate the name of 1 in every 6 senators began with A and half of the senators had names beginning with A, B, C or D. The position has changed today with the draw for positions. I am certain that there is a clear system of selection by the Government to produce candidates whose surnames begin with the letter higher than that of the sitting member. In fact, from long experience I know that in many cases none of them could have been elected except under that method. 
I feel that it is hardly necessary to elaborate on this proposal at great length as common sense dictates that the democratic practice to adopt is to draw for positions on the ballot paper. I urge the House to vote for the proposal. This Bill represents major steps in Labor's policy for the democratic reform of the Commonwealth Electoral Act. Its objective is to give to the Australian people truly representative government - and to give practical expression to the immortal words of Abraham Lincoln - which still echo down through the ages - and linger in the minds of all true democrats: 
Government of the people - by  the  people - for the people. 
I commend the Bill to the House. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the 2 measures? There being no objection, 1 will allow that course to be followed. 

 Mr BARNARD (Bass) (2.35^-The Opposition naturally has no objection to both of these measures, the Repatriation Bill and the Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances Bill, being taken together. The Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances Bill is closely related to the Repatriation Bill. In these circumstances both matters can quite properly be dealt with together. The first Repatriation legislation was introduced into this Parliament in 1917. Therefore it has been in existence for 54 years. 
When the first Bill was framed it was dealt with on the basis that it should provide adequate compensation for those who were then serving this country overseas during the First World War. This principle was endorsed, and indeed improved upon, by subsequent governments during the Second World War. But if one takes into consideration the number of protests that have been made by the Returned Services League, which represents the great majority of ex-servicemen in this country, it cannot be denied that a great deal of dissatisfaction now exists with the compensation payments which are the responsibility of this Government and which are normally paid to those who suffer disabilities as a result of their service overseas in the interests of this country. Equally importantly, ex-service organisations, particularly the Returned Services League, have drawn attention to the fact that although repatriation legislation has now been in existence for 54 years, no attempt has been made by governments, except in 1943 during the period of the. last Labor Government, to institute the kind of inquiry that would bring the legislation up to date and remove some of the anomalies that are so apparent today. I know that it can be said that the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten)  has authorised an interdepartmental inquiry into the repatriation legislation and other associated matters, but this does not mean a thing. It is certainly not acceptable to the RSL. It is not acceptable to honourable members on this side of the House. 1 have advocated consistently in this Parliament that a joint select committee of the Parliament should be set up to investigate the 
Repatriation Act. At the same time the RSL has advocated that a completely independent, non-parliamentary committee should investigate the Repatriation Act to bring it up to date and to remove some of the anomalies. 
Certainly in the time that is available to me today it would not be possible for me to deal with all of the anomalies that are contained in the Act. They are well known to those who represent ex-servicemen in this country. I suggest that they are certainly known to honourable members who sit on the opposite side of the House and who support the Government of this country. The anomalies are well known to honourable members on this side of the House. Indeed, one should point out that in this Parliament there exist not only a sub-committee of the Cabinet to. deal with matters affecting returned servicemen, their compensation and other related matters, but also the ex-servicemen's committee of the back benchers on the Government side. There is also an ex-servicemen's committee of members of this side of the House. 
Each year not only has the Returned Services League been making to the Government submissions on these matters, but also i know that the Government has received submissions from its repatriation committee. What has happened in the intervening period? Despite the well prepared cases, submitted each year by the national executive of the RSL, requesting a number of improvements  not only in relation to compensation but, equally important, as I have already pointed out, in relation to an inquiry that would have the opportunity to investigate the ramifications of the repatriation legislation, the Government has been equally consistent in rejecting the appeals made by the Returned Services League. 
The Opposition does not oppose this legislation. We support it because it can bc said that some improvements will be effected to the compensation that is now being paid to those who are entitled to compensation as a result of the injuries they suffered as a result of their service in the interests of this country.' So some improvements are to be made ' in a number of categories. The first improvement is an increase of $1 a week' iri the amount of compensation paid to the special rate pensioner who is more commonly known as the 'totally and permanently incapacitated ex-serviceman*. There is an increase of 50c a week for war widows. There is an increase of 50c a week for those who are in receipt of the intermediate rate of pension. Those increases are very slight and certainly inadequate. I shall return to these rates at a later stage in my address. 
There is an increase of 50c a week for those who are in receipt of a Service pension which, as honourable members know, is closely related to the invalid pension and the amounts received under the social services legislation. I make a comment which I believe is relevant to the whole situation today in relation to the payment of social services in this country. There has been a general tendency on the part of this Government to relate repatriation payments to what is being paid to those who receive social service payment. I challenge the Minister to look back over the records. He will find that each year the amount that is being paid to some categories of returned servicemen and servicewomen for their special compensation is closely related to the social service payments. There is very little improvement in many instances on the amount that is being paid under this legislation. This is one of the criticisms that I offer against the Government and against a government which in 1949 was so adamant about the need to increase the compensation rates being paid to exservicemen in this country. I make the point which has been substantiated by every document that has been provided to this Parliament and to the sub-committee of the Cabinet that deals with these matters on behalf of the Government: Each year a falling off in values of the payments being made to those who are entitled to compensation under the Repatriation Act has occurred. This is not merely my contention. It is not merely the contention of honourable members who sit on this side of the House. The authority I quote is that of the Returned Services League itself. 
The Minister received only a few days ago the latest document presented to the Government sub-committee on repatriation matters. The document has since been made public by the RSL so one can deal with it in the Parliament today. The Minister knows the recommendations. He knows what is being sought by the Returned Services League. What is being sought does not vary from the plan that it submitted in 1970. Let me state for ' the benefit of the House what is intended in this respect. In 1970 and again in' the latest document issued by the RSL it asked for certain improvements to be made to the Repatriation Act, particularly in relation to compensation payments. It is hardly necessary for me to spell them out to the Minister. But I believe they ought to be restated so that the people of this country are not left in any doubt about what has been asked for by the organisation which speaks with complete authority on behalf of those who have served this country in the First World War, the Second World War, in Korea and now in Vietnam. 
The RSL has made 4 simple requests to the Government. It has requested, firstly, that the totally and permanently incapacitated ex-servicemen's rate should not be less than the minimum wage paid to a worker of this country; secondly, that the 100 per cent general rate pension should not be less than 50 per cent of the minimum wage; thirdly, that the war widows' rate should not be less than 50 per cent of the minimum wage; and fourthly - I have already referred to this point - that this Government should set up a completely independent committee to review the Repatriation Act and to look at these matters and to report back to the Government and the Parliament. I shall move an amendment to give effect to these proposals. 
I have already indicated to the House that the special rate pension will be increased by $1 a week. The Minister has clearly indicated that a totally and permanently incapacitated ex-serviceman will receive an increase of $1 a week or $2 a fortnight and that the intermediate rate and the war widows' pension will each be increased by 50c a week. To return to the special rate pension, the Minister knows, indeed it is well known to honourable members in this House and to those who represent the ex-servicemen of this country, that the $1 a week that the Minister talks about will not in fact be received. The plain fact is that on the statistics that are available to us at least one-third of the ex-servicemen in this country who are in receipt of a special rate pension have their pension supplemented by a part service pension because of their total incapacity. I have a question on the notice paper seeking information on this matter from the Minister for Repatriation. An answer has not been made available to me. Therefore I have selected the proportion of one-third which I think is a conservative one. The plain fact is that those who are in receipt of a service pension to supplement their special rate pension will not receive the increase of $1 a week. Whether they are in the married or the single category, the amount they will receive will be in part reduced by the service pension. 
I would like to quote some figures to substantiate what 1 have said in this respect. Prior to the introduction of this legislation a single TPI ex-serviceman was in receipt of a $76 a fortnight war pension. He was able to supplement that war pension by receiving a service pension of $3 a fortnight, which gave him a total of $79 a fortnight. Under this legislation, which will give a S2 a fortnight increase, he will receive a war pension of $78 a fortnight. But he will receive only $2 a fortnight by way of service pension. Therefore he will receive only $80 as against his previous pension of $79. 
The plain fact remains that the TPI exserviceman in this position will not receive a $2 a fortnight increase. The Minister may care to put it another way and say that the TPI rate will be increased by $2 a fortnight. But the total payment to the TPI ex-serviceman in this category will be reduced by SI a fortnight. Why does the Minister not explain these matters to the Parliament and to the people. The same thing happened in the 1970 Budget. I pointed out then that the total amount that the Minister said would be available to special rate pensioners would not be available to those pensioners whose incomes were supplemented by the service pension. 
Let us consider how a married couple is affected as a result of the Government's generosity in increasing the totally and permanently incapacitated rate of pension by $2 a fortnight. Until now a married pensioner has been receiving a war pension of $76 a fortnight. His wife's allowance has been $8.10 a fortnight. A service pension of 18.48 a fortnight has been paid to the member and $14 a fortnight to his wife by way of age or service pension, making a total of $116.58. As a result of the implementation of this legislation he will receive a war pension of $78 a fortnight and his wife will receive an allowance of $8.10 a fortnight. Incidentally, the wife's allowance has not been increased for 8 or 9 years. Despite the fact that the Government says that it believes in being magnanimous and generous to those who served the country in time of war, the wife's allowance remains at $8.10 a fortnight. The service pension will remain under this legislation at $18.48 a fortnight. The age or service pension will be reduced to $13.50. These amounts total $118.08, which represents an increase of $1.50 a fortnight. So, a married couple will lose 50c a fortnight because the increase will not be $2 a fortnight but $1.50 a fortnight. 
-I have received a letter from the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  proposing that a definite matterof public importance be submitted to the House for discussion, namely: 
The altitude of the Deputy Prime Minister and the Leader of the Australian Country Party towards Mainland China which has resulted in the loss of Australia's most important wheat market. 
I call upon those members who approve or. the proposed discussion to rise in their places. (More than the number of members required by the Standing Orders having risen in their places.) 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. 
The Petition of the undersigned wives ofserving R.A.A.F. members most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to alleviate the inadequate rales of pay, allowances and conditions existing in the Armed Forces at present. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
Order! I point out to the honourable member for Adelaide that he has leave to make a statement. When leave is given to make a statement there is no limitation of time, but the subject matter on this occasion should be related to the 2 statements that have been made by the Minister and the honourable member for Hindmarsh. I ask the honourable member for Adelaide not to proceed outside that framework. 
I have received a letter from the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  proposing that a definite matter of public importance be submilied to the House for discussion, namely: 
The failure of the Commonwealth Government to initiate a national policy to reduce Australia's tragic road toll. 
I call upon those members who approve of the proposed discussion to rise in their places. (More than the number of members required by the Standing Orders having risen in their places) 
Order! The discussion is now concluded. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Order! I do not want to interrupt the honourable member but I cannot relate his points to clause 4. 
I turn now to clause 4. To understand clause 4 one has to understand what the Bill seeks to do. It seeks to create a number of offences for which we already have laws. The Attorney-General said, incorrectly, that a number of speakers have referred to section 76 of the Commonwealth Crimes Act as touching on the law of trespass. Noone mentioned section 76 in that context. It was section 23 (b) of the Police Offences Ordinance of the Australian Capital Territory which creates in a very savage form the crime of trespass in the A.C.T. That was the section that was referred to which puts the burden of proof on the defendant and which has been used time and again with great effect and success by the police force of the A.C.T. 
That section is an example of so many other sections that the Bill seeks to duplicate. In Australia we have about 8 or 9 systems of criminal law. That is unfortunate We have systems of criminal law in New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, Western Australia, Tasmania, Queensland, the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory. Over and above those we have a system of criminal law which is contained in the Commonwealth Crimes Act. All those laws are different. The previous Attorney-General said: 'We are going to clarify them, simplify them, modernise them and bring them up to date.' What did the Government do? It created an additional system of criminal law over and above the existing ones. It did not repeal old sections such as section 24 (b) of the Police Offences Act of the Australian Capital Territory. It did not, and cannot, repeal the New South Wales Crimes Act. It did not repeal the Police Offences Act of the Northern Territory. It did repeal some legislation that the British lawyers have repealed and have not reproduced. The Government repealed that, but then it re-enacted it in modern guise and sharpened the teeth of it. It reduced the penalty a little and made it more acceptable, but the legislation is still barbarous. 
What the Government did was to graft an additional system of criminal law onto the previously existing 9 systems of criminal law. It did a most peculiar thing. It took little islands throughout the various States - post offices, Commonwealth places and Commonwealth buildings in New South Wales, Tasmania, Victoria or somewhere - and said: 'Although the States are quite competent to make laws for themselves, we will make an additional Commonwealth law and put it there.' So a Commonwealth building in George Street, Sydney, is surrounded by State laws. Until this Bill becomes law, State laws made Commonwealth laws by virtue of the Commonwealth processes legislation which was passed by this House some time ago will operate there. Now the Government is grafting onto that an additional system of law. Honourable members opposite talk about clarifying the law 'and' making it simple. No-one will know where he is. In clause 4 the Government introduces notions of the vicinity of a building where crimes can be committed. Let us take a Commonwealth place in George Street or Pitt Street in Sydney. How far away from it would one have to be before Commonwealth law ceases to exist and New South Wales law begins? Would it be 50 yards, 100 yards or 200 yards? 
The Government makes laws to deal with moving groups of people. Where does one set of laws stop and another one begin? My view is that this Bill was drafted probably before the equally savage piece of legislation, the New South Wales Summary Offences Act 1970, which reproduces all these things, was enacted. It contains trespass provisions which are criminal. It contains all the offences of obstruction which are criminal. It contains all the offences of violence which are criminal. It contains all the offences of damage to property which are criminal. Perhaps for public relations purposes, because the Government was hoist on its own propaganda of 6 months ago and could not get out of it, because it thought a swell was running towards anyone who came forward and talked about law and order, because it had committed itself to do so and could not get out of it, because it had watered the legislation down as much as it could but could not repeal it or because it had committed itself to the idea -I do not know and no-one would know because it is impossible to understand the thinking of the Government - the Government has duplicated and over-lapped the laws. Let me refer to the definition of unreasonable obstruction' in clause 4 of the Bill. It reads as follows: 
Unreasonable obstruction' means an act or thing done by a person that constitutes, or contributes to, an obstruction of, or interference with, the exercise or enjoyment by other personsof their lawful rights or privileges (including rights of passage along the public streets) where, having regard to all the circumstances of the obstruction or interference, including its place, time, duration and nature, it constitutes an unreasonable obstruction or interference, and 'unreasonably obstructs' has a corresponding meaning. 
Where is the balance that the Government talks about? It defines one right, the right of free passage, but it does not define the other right of free assembly. The legislation refers to anyone who interferes with one right unless it is reasonable in some way - which leaves a vague concept for the prejudices of a magistrate or a court. It is not for the Opposition to redraft the Bill and make it understandable, but I suggest a possibility for the consideration of the Attorney-General. He might consider putting in after the definition of'unreasonable obstruction' the words'where, having regard to all the circumstances'- 
Order! The Minister's time has expired. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Order! The honourable member for Sturt has moved that the Standing Orders be suspended. That motion has been seconded by the honourable member for Banks. The question is that the motion be agreed to. 
The honourable member for Dawson asked the Minister for Primary Industry to table a document. 
The honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  said that there were aspects of importance that he wanted to mention. He did so and during his comments he covered a number of subjects which he thought should be given very careful consideration. In the time available to me this evening I want to comment on something I feel is very important and which concerns the destiny and future of this nation. Because we are fortunate to live in this country, taking for granted all the benefits it has to offer - they are there every day - we do not think seriously enough about matters outside Australia which affect the safety and security of this country. I do not in any way deny the importance of the economic problems that confront this country, particularly the rural industry. The Government and the Cabinet have my wholehearted support in the action they are taking in an endeavour to solve some of these problems. Many Government supporters in recent weeks have mentioned the complexity of these problems and difficulties and the fact that they are not easily solved. I certainly agree with their comments. On the other hand, the defence and security of this country also are important because without the security of this country our main benefit - our economic security - is in danger. 
I appreciate the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  taking my place last Friday and making his contribution in this debate. Being a matter of significance at that time, he spoke of Anzac Day, not only of its importance but also of the things for which it stands. I must confess that I am a little disappointed in the New South Wales newspaper, the 'Countryman', because it has not given as much emphasis to this matter of defence and security as I feel it should. I want to relate my remarks particularly to Rhodesia, South Africa and other African countries because I believe these are areas of great importance to us. As has been said by honourable members on the other side of the House, Africa is important also in its relationship to Asia, and both these areas are important to Australia. I think we should pause and look around and really give consideration to these matters. I say that to all of us - to members of this House, to the Press, to business and to all those who are in positions of responsibility. 
The comments on Rhodesia and the situation that has developed there in recent years - the criticism that has been made of  Mr Smith  and some of his leaders in Rhodesia - in most cases are made by people who are completely unaware of the situation and of the attendant responsibilities, lt was my privilege to do a period of service in Rhodesia under the Empire Air Training Scheme and there I received the. hospitality of the Rhodesian people. I gained a knowledge of their character, their strength of purpose, their sense of community responsibility and their sense of responsibility, to use the term in its broad sense, to the native people of Rhodesia. Of course, we also know that there were men and women of Rhodesia who served in the Services in the defence of those things that we held dear in those times. Their character, purpose and sense of duty were revealed. The prattling of the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham),  who is interjecting, is so insignificant that it does not count. If we think that these people would have suddenly changed their character there is something wrong with the people of Australia, as there is something wrong with a section of the people of the United Kingdom. 
I think the United Kindom should stand ashamed of its attitude towards Rhodesia under the Labour Government and under the Prime Ministership of  Mr Wilson.  The United Kingdom Government was guilty of appealing to the lower elements in many instances not only in Britain but in the international scene. The British society has become in some sections a permissive society. It seems to have lost all its tradition and its noble heritage. I am reminded of a story of a most famous British character who at one stage during a speech in the House of Commons gave a description of a person who was then the Leader of the Opposition. The  speaker  said that when he was a young man he was visiting Madame Tussaud's waxworks. Amongst the exhibits was one called the Boneless Wonder. He wanted to have a look at it but his mother said: 'Come along, we have to go away; your father is in a hurry'. He said to her: 'I want to have a look at the Boneless Wonder'. She said: 'We have not time. One of these days you will see it again'. The  speaker  said: This is now true. I have now seen the Boneless Wonder - the Leader of the Opposition'. He was referring to Ramsay MacDonald. Unfortunately in the British Labour Party at the moment there are many boneless wonders. If I was to make the comment I would like to make in reply to the honourable member who is interjecting I would be out of order so I will not make that comment; I will only think it because I believe it is true. 
We have had many comments about the apartheid policy of South Africa. I do not agree with that policy but there are many people who speak on this subject who have not the faintest appreciation of understanding of the complexities and factors relating to it. Not the least is the religious aspect. This goes back many years and many generations. I cannot agree with this policy. I do not think that one can separate the African native from the economy of South Africa. This poses one of the greatest problems that confronts the South African government. Let us look at it. The Bantu are not an indigenous people of South Africa. They came there as the Europeans did. At this moment there is still a great inflow of these people into South Africa, even when they know the conditions and circumstances in South Africa. 
We must realise and appreciate that there is a difference of opinion. In recent weeks we have heard comments from people there, including  Sir Villiers  De Graff. I know the job that the Opposition Leader in the South African Parliament has done because 1 have been to South Africa on a number of occasions. We have heard comments from union leaders, even from the coloureds and from some of the top leaders of the natives who have said that they want these tours of the South African sporting teams to Australia to continue because they believe that more harm will be done by stopping them than by allowing them to continue. Should these people not know what they are talking about? They are living there. They know the circumstances better than some of the people - for want of a better expression which would be unparliamentary - here who are critical. What about Hunte and Sobers, who as I have mentioned before, say that one of the ways of overcoming this problem is to go and live with the people and be with them? Would we say that they are completely and absolutely wrong? Yet whenever honourable members suggest anything like this, the Leader of the Opposition, typically jumping on the bandwagon, says that we are doing great harm to Australia in the eyes of other nations. 
I have never been so disgusted in all my life as I have been by the attitude of the World Council of Churches and of some of its executive. It is about time they had a look at the situation. Either they are completely unaware of the situation and are therefore so naive that they are dangerous, or they also are trying to jump on a bandwagon. Their action in giving funds to the terrorists in Africa is dangerous. Let the Opposition face up to this. The terrorists in South Africa are inciting rape, murder and slaughter, and the World Council of Churches piously says that this money is not going to go for anything like that. If they really believe that, I am sorry for them. I cannot believe they do. 1 have been to South Africa and I have spoken to the natives there. The natives are fearful that the terrorist, is going to take charge and take control. Because of this the terrorist undermines the natives and gets them to throw bombs into their employers' homes. They do it. not because they dislike their employers but because they are fearful of what might happen to them. Does the action of the World Council of Churches assist in any way? 
Unfortunately, these men show a complete lack of appreciation of the situation and close their eyes to the reality of it instead of facing up to it. We might criticise South Africa. We talk about things that have happened there. One of the incidents that has been quoted is Sharpeville. Literally, in some instances, because of the action of these terrorists, the South Africans are under seige. What would our actions be in similar circumstances? I do not justify what they are doing, but one needs to live there to understand it. I had the experience in 1957 of being at the United Nations on the Trusteeship Council which was concerned with many problems, not the least of which related to South West Africa. I had discussions then with many South African leaders and also - I say this for the benefit of honourable members opposite - with those who were opposed to South Africa. From those discussions there came an appreciation that this problem was complex and would not be solved overnight, nor would it be solved by the attitude advocated by  Mr Hawke,  by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  by the World Council of Churches and by some others. 
But is there not another factor? I would have thought more of those rugby union players who object to the tour if they had so objected when they were selected to represent Australia. The only reason they might be selected now is to act as ball boys, and they might have difficulty doing that. I cannot understand their attitude. I could appreciate it more if they had taken that attitude while they were still capable of being selected. New Zealand - I know something about New Zealand rugby - selected 3 Maoris to play in its team, for the first time, on the last tour in South Africa. Evonne Goolagong, the Australian Aboriginal, participated in tennis matches in South Africa and received a welcome. The D'Oliveira case has been criticised. Let me say one thing about that. The Marylebone Cricket Club handled D'Oliveira's case in the worst possible way. I do not criticise D'Oliveira in this instance but I criticise the way in which the situation was handled. Australia has been asked by the South African trade unions and the Leader of the Opposition in South Africa and by many other people not to try to stop the tour because, they say, it will be worse if we stop it. Eighty-five per cent of the people of Australia have agreed that these tours should go on. Are we going to say that these people are wrong? Honourable members should read some of the letters that have been written. The honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  has been looking at figures too much. In a situation where 85 per cent of the people agree, are we to allow a small percentage to dominate the situation and tell us what is going to happen? 
I would say to the honourable member for Capricornia that a good deal of the colour of the opposition is yellow and a lot of those people belong to his organisations. We say to the people of Africa - to the people in Kenya, the people in Nigeria and to the people of such countries - that they have to play their part and not just have everything given to them. I have been to the home of the late Tom Mboya. I could say that I was a friend of the late Tom Mboya. I have talked to leaders of the people in his home country. I have talked to many of the people in these countries in Africa and I know that they want to turn around and play their part and not have everything handed to them on a plate. 
Let us look at the other side of the situation. The people who are the greatest advocates of contact with Red China are the greatest opponents of South Africa. Does the same argument that they use in favour of talking to Red China not work in relation to talking to the South Africans? Does the argument they use in relation to visits by the Moscow soccer team and the Moscow circus work in exactly the same way as the visit of these other teams? No, it does not. The attitude of the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  and the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  for instance in standing here duplicates the attitude of the people they support and shows the same character. The arguments they use against South Africa are opposite to the arguments they use in support of everything they want to put forward. Let us look behind their arguments to see what are their motives. I suggest that members of the Labor Party - not the honourable member for Sturt and the honourable member for Robertson but the men who have been solid members of the Labor Party - have a look to see what is behind the attitude of the Leader of the Opposition and the actions he takes. They will find Chat they are completely opposite. What tremendous influence the left must have on this Leader of the Opposition, as was seen and shown in the debate on the Public Order (Protection of Persons and Property) Bill, when all members of the left wing spoke out against the legislation that was being put through. 
They talk about kicking the Communist can, as they call it. It does not matter about kicking the Communist can in this sense, because the arguments they have put forward in support of their association with Red China and with all other Communist nations must be held to be firm also in their associations with South Africa and these other countries. They adopt exactly the same attitude on Vietnam. 
They bring forward every single thing that the Americans or the allies do, and there is no comment on anything that the Vietcong or those opposed to the United States do. This occurs a hundred times. Let me say to the honourable members that I would back what I say in the electorate that it is my privilege to represent. I know that the people in my electorate, including many Labor voters and Labor supporters, would support the things that I have said tonight. But let me also say that if they did not I would not want to be a member of this honourable House. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Kelly)  adjourned. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
. Order! I suggest to honourable members who are conducting a private debate in the corner that they are not assisting the Hansard reporter who is trying to take down the speech being made by the honourable member for Hunter. I suggest that they conduct their conversations outside the chamber. 
I understand that the maximum penalty for the offence with which these 2 evildoers were charged is prescribed as 14 years imprisonment. I understand also that in the Australian Capital Territory, unlike in other States, there is no provision whereby the Crown can appeal against the inadequacy of a sentence. I hope that the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  will give serious consideration to what I have imparted to the House tonight. I hope that it is the opinion of all honourable members that the sentence imposed is far too lenient. It is an insult to a country of great power and with which we conduct extensive trading operations. I would not like to think that the Soviet authorities would impose such a meagre penalty on evildoers in the Soviet Union convicted of a similar crime in relation to our embassy in Moscow. I hope that there will be no repetition of this frivolous type of treatment by the law enforcement authorities of such a very serious crime. 
Order! The honourable member for Sturt will resume his seat. 

<graphic href="072131197104282_80_1_2_N.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="072131197104282_80_1_1_A.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="072131197104282_80_1_3_P.jpg"></graphic>

Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment. 
Adoption of Report 
Motion (by  Mr Chipp)  proposed: 
That the  report  be adopted. 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. I refer to the answer provided by the Treasurer to a question on notice asked by the honourable member for Riverina. In the concluding .stages of that answer, the Treasurer states that the case in question which relates to primary industry taxation concessions to broiler growers has been referred to a board of review. As I understand that the decision of that board of review has been given and the appeal has been lost, I now ask the Treasurer: Will he have discussions with the Minister for Primary Industry with a view to amending the present legislation to allow those engaged in this important and viable primary industry to maintain this recognition? 
Order! I suggest to the honourable member for Oxley that he remove himself from the position in which he is standing. 
Order! It being 2 hours after the time set down for the meeting of the House, the debate on the motion is interrupted. 
Motion (by  Mr Chipp)  agreed to: 
That the time for discussion of the notice be extended to 12.45 p.m. 
But, more importantly, the committee should plan future sites and alternative sites of airports for Perth and Jandakot before the volume of private aircraft traffic increases and the pressures of suburban development create the same situation which has occurred in relation to Perth airport. This committee never again should allow a project to go ahead without reference to ecological effects and without a survey. This is what has happened in relation to Cockburn Sound in this age of conservation, awareness of warnings and the knowledge which is available to all. 
Above all, I make the point that the purpose of this committee should be to coordinate with the States and to act with the States in a manner similar to the way in which these objectives have been achieved in the education and other fields. This committee is intended in no way to usurp the rights of the States but is designed to co-ordinate activities in such  a  way that at least in the future we will have commonsense planning for the future. 
There being no objection, that course will be followed. 
The Stevedoring Industry Charge Act 1947-1967 limits the rate of the charge payable in respect of employment of these three classes of waterside workers as defined in the Stevedoring Industry Charge Assessment Act. The maximum permitted rates of charge under the Stevedoring Industry Charges Act are $17.55 per manweek, 80c per man-hour, and 55c per manhours for A, B and C classes respectively, and regulations under that Act at present prescribe for the charge to be levied at these maximum rates. Until 1967 the Australian stevedoring industry had been organised almost entirely on a casual employment basis. The Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority administered the labour force of waterside workers engaged in stevedoring operations through the registration system under the provisions of the Stevedoring Industry Act 1956-1966. The role of the Authority included such important functions as labour allocation, payment of annual leave, sick leave, long service leave and holiday pay as well as attendance money, transfer costs and subsidy of amenities such as waterfront cafeteria services. These commitments were met from revenue raised through the stevedoring industry charge. 
In 1967 the National Stevedoring Industry Conference, which was set up by the Government in 1965, recommended major changes in the industry including inter alia: 
A scheme for permanent employment of waterside workers in major ports; 
A pension scheme to apply to regular waterside workers in all permanent and continuous ports; and 
Arrangements to cope with anticipated redundancy in the industry. 
In particular the Conference report called for major changes in the role of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority. The Authority's labour allocation functions were to disappear in permanent employment ports but it was to retain all its then existing functions in non-permanent ports. When the parties to the National Conference - the Australian Council of Trade Unions, the Waterside Workers Federation, the Association of Employers of Waterside Labour and the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority - endorsed the report, the Government agreed to provide legislative authority to cover these and other matters. The enabling legislation was the Stevedoring Industry (Temporary Provisions) Act 1967, which was subsequently extended in operation, upon its expiry in June 1970, until 30th June 1972. 
Immediately before the introduction of the permanent employment scheme a uniform charge of 48c was levied on each man-hour worked by waterside workers in the industry. It was not practical to continue with a uniform charge when the new scheme came into operation as, for example, employers of weekly hire employees now had to carry at their own expense costs such as annual leave, sick leave and public holidays as well as administer their own labour allocation. In addition it was decided that the employers' contributions to the new pension scheme and the redundancy fund should be financed through the charge. Before the implementation of the National Conference scheme waterside workers who were available for work but not required to work received attendance money paid by the Authority from the proceeds of the charge. On the introduction of permanent employment it was recognised that waterside workers on weekly hiring under the Conference arrangements would be in a similar situation in being available for work but on occasions not required to work. The men concerned do not lose by this because they are on a weekly wage. Insofar as the employer was concerned it was decided that, whereas in previous circumstances attendance money would have been paid, the employer should be reimbursed from the charge for full shifts paid for when there was no work for the men. Attendance money payments continue as before for waterside workers who are not engaged on weekly hire and who are defined as classes B and C waterside workers. 
Prior to the changes in 1967 the basis for financing the stevedoring industry long service leave scheme through the charge was to provide funds only to meet payments on account of leave taken on a year to year cash basis. In 1967, when the components of the new charges were calculated, it was decided to convert the previous financing arrangements from a cash outgoing basis to one where a fund would be built up to enable sufficient money to be available to pay all long service leave as and when it became due. The Authority continued to administer the long service leave scheme. The conclusion reached in 1967 was that the major permanent employment ports should continue, as in the past, to contribute something to the costs in the remaining ports. The maximum rate set for class A waterside workers was therefore fixed at $17.55 per man-week under the 1967 legislation and regulations made under the Stevedoring Industry Charge Act at that time fixed the actual rate at $16.85 per man-week. The notional hourly rate was calculated at 48c, being the same as the pre-existing charge in the industry. The maximum charge in respect of class C waterside workers was fixed at 55c per manhour, only 7c higher than the pre- 1967 level, and this amount was determined on the basis of the additional money needed to finance the long service leave fund. At the continuous ports for class B waterside workers the maximum rate of 80c was 32c higher - 22c of this representing the pension, redundancy and long service leave items. The balance of 10c over and above the pre- 1967 charge represented a further contribution towards the cost in those ports. The regulations made in 1967 set the charges for both B and C class waterside workers at the maximum provided under the legislation. However, since the introduction of permanent employment in 1967 - when the original charges were determined and expected to cover the situation until June 1971 - costs have increased as follows: 
The weekly wage rate for class A waterside workers has risen from $50.50 per week to $67.40 as at 1st January 1971, because of flow-on of the metal trades margins decision, the national wage case including the last 6 per cent increase, and consent award increases granted by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. This represents an increase of 33.5 per cent in the ordinary award weekly rates for waterside workers since 1967. Over the same period the rate for a metal trades fitter has increased by 33 per cent. 
In May 1970, under the Chairmanship of a  Deputy President  of the Commission,  Mr Justice  Moore, the employers, the ACTU and the Waterside Workers' Federation reached agreement on a number of matters which were awarded by consent. These included a weekly wage increase of $6.50, an extra week of annual leave (now 4 weeks) plus a 17i per cent loading, sick leave increased from 5 to 7 days per annum with no limit on accumulation (previously 2 years limit), in addition 3 days compassionate leave on the death of a close relative, increased meal money $1.25 (previously $1.00), and provision of personal issue of 2 pairs of overalls per year. 
By previous agreement the rate of payment for annual leave had become the rate for long service leave entitlement and this commitment increased by 17i per cent foi- lowing the Moore Award. Since the introduction of permanent employment in 1967 the weekly rate of pay for long service leave has risen by 46.2 per cent. 
Attendance money payable to casual classes B and C waterside workers increased by 11.3 per cent from S3. 10 per day in 1967 to S3.45 per day in 1970. 
The cost of reimbursing employers of class A waterside workers for full shifts when their employees were available for work but not required to work has risen partly because of a 33.5 per cent increase in the minimum weekly rate of pay since 1967 and partly because of the increasing incidence of these shifts this financial year. 
I should point out that whilst the total waterside worker labour force has decreased from 20,140 in 1967 to 17,178 at the end of February 1971, the demand for labour over the past year or so has fluctuated quite markedly. The result has been that on occasions there have been large surpluses of labour available but not required to work. There are 2 basic reasons for this. One is the need to retain a labour force which is adequate to cope with the peak demands created by trade factors and shipping movements. The second is that the change from conventional to container and unit load vessels has not proceeded at a uniformly consistent rate. Accordingly the incidence of paid but un worked shifts has become the major item of expenditure from the charge revenue and as such is under close scrutiny by the Government. Every effort is being made to keep this factor within reasonable bounds but of course the fluctuations in trade and shipping movements have and always will be a determining influence on the actual level of the labour force required to service the industry. 
Because of the progressively increasing costs the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority has found itself unable to meet its financial commitments from the charge revenue. As an interim measure in mid 1969 the Authority reduced the amount paid to the long service leave fund by 2c per man-hour from that portion of the charge relating to the long term funding of the Long Service Leave Reserve in order to meet day to day expenditure. In October 1970 the Authority was forced into the position of suspending payments to the Long Service Leave Reserve Fund altogether and in addition some interest bearing deposits falling due from that fund reserve have not been reinvested but utilised to meet current expenditure. The cash reserves of the Authority were entirely exhausted in November 1970, and since the 1 6th October 1 970 it has been necessary for the Treasury to make advance payments of $800,000 each month to overcome the current deficits. 
As a further interim measure pending consideration of legislative changes the charge for class A waterside workers was increased by regulation to the maximum provided by the legislation of $17.55 per man-week, a notional equivalent of 50c per man-hour, as from the 15th February 1971. It is regretted that further increases in the charge are necessary particularly at a time when the Commonwealth is concerned to contain price increases throughout industry. They are needed to restore the financial position of the Authority in order to meet its commitments from the charge revenue and recoup the short-fall in the Long Service Leave Fund which has been eroded since mid 1969 in the ways in which I have just outlined. However it needs to be borne in mind that the charge rates fixed in 1967 have been held at those levels for 3 years during a period of rapidly rising costs in the industry. The increases now needed have come about because of the accumulation of arbitrated decisions of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, other changes in wage rates and conditions of employment awarded with the consent of the stevedoring industry employers and the increased incidence of occasions when there is no work for the men. 
In fact an increase in charge rates has been specifically requested by the employers and they have indicated that it would be intolerable in their view to continue to allow the Authority to engage in the deficit financing of the financial commitments of the industry. In this respect it needs to be pointed out that the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority is primarily acting as an agent for the industry's employers in channelling the funds from the charge back to them for pensions, redundancy and paid but unworked shifts. It might also be said that the Authority plays an agency role for the employers in its administration of the industry long service leave scheme. The employers, as they did in 1967, have again accepted that the financial arrangement for classes B and C waterside workers should be subject to some minor subsidy from the charge levied on the work performed by class A waterside workers. The increases in the charges proposed reflect approximately the same degree of subsidy as that fixed in 1967. To have done otherwise would have placed a disproportionate cost burden on employers in the non-permanent employment ports. 
The main purpose of the Stevedoring Industry Charge Assessment Bill 1971 is to amend the Stevedoring Charge Assessment Act 1947-1967 to provide for a conversion of the charge for class A waterside workers from a man-week basis to a manhour basis. When the 1967 legislation was introduced the employers specifically requested that the stevedoring industry charge for class A waterside workers should be expressed as a weekly amount as all their records were being kept on this basis in respect of weekly hire employees. The then weekly rate of $16.85 was calculated on an assumed average working week, over a full year, of 37.4 hours. After allowance was made for authorised award absences in a year for annual leave, sick leave and public holidays, the notional hourly rate determined was 48c. At the present weekly rate of $17.55 the notional hourly rate would be 50c. Experience has demonstrated that the effective hourly rate of charge paid by individual employers varies according to the degree of labour utilisation and the weekly rate therefore has operated unfairly against those employers unable to obtain maximum utilisation of labour. 
Put another way, if an employer because of stevedoring contract commitments worked his men on average in excess of 37.4 hours per week the effective hourly rate of charge from the weekly levy of $17.55 would be less than 50c per manhour. Therefore the busier larger employer would be able to get all hours worked at a cheaper hourly rate and enter into con tracts to the disadvantage of other employers. The proposed change in the class A charge from a man-week to a man-hour basis has been recommended by the Association of Employers of Waterside Labour. Because of the proposed conversion of the class A charge to a man-hour basis the Stevedoring Industry Charge Assessment Bill also provides for consequential amendments to the principal Act to exclude the levying of the charge on specified manhours paid for by the employer but not actually worked by his waterside workers. These paid hours are almost entirely in respect of awarded annual and sick leave entitlements and shifts where waterside workers were available for work but not required to work. 
The purpose of the Stevedoring Industry Charge Bill 1971 is to amend the Stevedoring Industry Charge Act 1947-1967 to permit the charge to be imposed at rates up to $1 per man-hour for class A waterside workers, $1.75 per man-hour for class B waterside workers and $1.20 per man-hour in respect of class C waterside workers. In 1967, the principal Act was amended to permit the respective charge rates to be fixed by regulation at a level not exceeding the maximum rates authorised by the Act. It is the Government's intention to declare as soon as possible by regulation that the new rates of charge be 65c, $1.20 and 82c per man-hour for classes A, B and C waterside workers respectively. 
These rates in the proposed regulation should be adequate to meet costs to 30th June 1972 and recoup the deficit in this financial year. Leaving aside the prospect of further increases in wage rates it can be expected there will be scope for some significant reduction when the past services benefits section of the pensions fund and the long service leave reserve have been fully funded and the labour force has been stabilised at an appropriate level following completion of the transition to containerisation and other forms of unit loading. In summary,  Mr Speaker,  since November 1967 the 33.5 per cent increase in the award rate of pay for waterside workers and other progressively increasing costs which I detailed earlier in my speech make it necessary for changes to be made in the charge rates. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Charles  Jones) adjourned. 
Order! The conversation is not coming from only one section of the House. 1 repeat that it is difficult for the honourable member for Melbourne Ports to be heard above the conversation in the chamber, and I would suggest that in these circumstances honourable members, if they wish to continue their conversations, should do so outside the chamber. 
The way in which this debate is taking place reflects no credit on the Government. After all, this measure was introduced into this House only on Thursday of last week, and we are expected to debate it at this hour only a week later. But the International Development Association is one of the more worthy of the institutions because it collects finance from countries such as Australia - a developed country - and lends it on low-interest terms, or in this case on no-interest terms, to assist in the sort of projects that are quite clearly delineated in the tables contained in the Association's annual report. In a way I am sorry that I have not more time to go into details, but I commend the report to honourable members. On page 6 of the report it is stated: 
IDA- 
That is, the Internationa] Development Association -  made its first development credits in fiscal 1961. 
It has been in existence now for nearly 10 years. The report continues: 
During the past 10 years IDA has made 221 commitments, totalling $2,773. lm net in 55 countries, for agriculture, education, transportation, electric power, water supply, telecommunications, industry, and project preparation and technical assistance. 
It goes on to list the countries to which assistance has been granted. They include India, Pakistan, the Sudan, Turkey and the United Arab Republic. It then gives details of the assistance which has been given to these countries. The report continues: 
Construction, expansion and/or equipping of 627 general secondary and specialised training schools, 52 teacher training colleges, and 8 agricultural universities. These projects, in 11 African, 3 Asian and 2 South American countries, will enable enrolment to expand by 148,900 in general secondary schools; 31,100 in technical and agricultural training schools; 7,700 in teacher training colleges; 6,200 in agricultural universities. 
Impressive as those figures may sound, they are but a small part of the task that has to be performed. The period from 1960 to 1970 was described rather hopefully as the decade of development, but apparently because of the inadequacy of the resources that were made available by the countries which should have thought more seriously about the problem, the decade of development was a decade of disappointment. Whether the world will have the same kind of opportunity from 1970 to 1980, without there being some fearful consequences, remains to be seen. One needs to look only at the tragic events taking place in India, Pakistan, Laos, Cambodia and other parts of the world at present to realise that the margins of tolerance might not be as great in the 10 years from 1970 to 1980. That is why I commend to honourable members, who may be a little too tired to worry about it tonight, the material contained in the annual report of the World Bank, and particularly that part which deals with the International Development Association. 
We support this Bill because we believe that the expenditure of $48m over a period of 3 years will place no great hardship on the Australian economy, but at least it will help to bring some of the required improvement that is needed so much in these underdeveloped parts of the world. On behalf of the Opposition, I support the measure. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
Order! I suggest to the honourable member that the statement that he has made should be withdrawn. It is a reflection on every Government supporter. 
Order! J suggest that the honourable member for Sturt take note of some of the interjections and comments he has made. It is fortunate for the honourable member that at this moment I happen to be in the Chair. The reflection made by the honourable member is completely unfounded and I suggest that he consider some of the comments he has made. As to the remark made by the honourable member for Corio, honourable members should appreciate that contrary to the Standing Orders he cast a reflection on Government members by saying that they are not fit to be members of this House. In my opinion that is an offence against the Standing Orders. I suggested that the honourable member lor Corio withdraw the remark and he has done so. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. Is the motion seconded? 
Order! ls it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the 2 matters? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
Order! The discussion is now concluded. 
I call the honourable member for Perth. 
Motion (by  Mr. Giles)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
Is the amendment seconded? 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
The time allotted for the debate has expired. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
Clauses 1 and 2 - by leave - taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 3 (Composition of House of Assembly) 
Order! I would suggest that the Committee come to order. It might then be possible to hear the honourable member for Wills make his speech. 
THE  CHAIRMAN -  Order! The point raised by the honourable member for Mallee is a debating point and not a point of order. 
On behalf of the Parliament I resent the way in which Ministers are reshuffled at the behest of Prime Ministers and changing Prime Ministers. Each time there has been a change of Prime Minister some members of the Ministry have fallen by the wayside. I recall when the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  was Minister for the Navy. He was the first Minister for the armed Services who had taken the Parliament into his confidence - who had taken members of the Parliament to look at the work of his Department. So, of course, he was sacked. We may. find the same situation now. The honourable member for Mackellar, the Minister for Social Services and Minister-in-Charge of Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Wentworth)  is the only member on the other side who has shown a consistent interest in Aboriginal affairs. I say this in ali fairness to him, but there is every indication that he may not have much say in that area for much longer. 
Today we are concerned with how the Ministry should operate. We are to have a new Minister. We do not know what his title will be or which function he will supervise. We are also to have Assistant Ministers. I think it is an unduly narrow reading of the Constitution to say that there cannot be Assistant Ministers, even through I disapprove of a third tier of the Ministry in that sense. But from my reading of section 62 of the Constitution relating to the functions of the Executive Council and the functions of government it would seem to me not to be difficult to overcome the constitutional problems. Members of the Opposition have a different view of the functions of a Minister from that of honourable members opposite. I believe that more, not less, parliamentary control is necessary. I have no idea what the number of Ministers should be and 1 have no confidence that the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  has given any consideration to what might be called, I suppose, an industry work and motion study, time and motion study, cost analysis or feasibility analysis. 
We are debating a matter that relates to the administration of the nation. Recently my friend the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  asked a question about the number of committees and boards which were helping to administer the nation or doing whatever they are supposed to be doing and the reply to that question occupies 48 pages of Hansard. The honourable member for Grayndler is a particularly assiduous member of the Parliament.  His  question and the reply will be found in Hansard of 10th March 1971 on pages 763 to 810. In addition the 'Commonwealth Directory' sets out on page after page the innumerable duties of every ministerial portfolio. As my friend the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Sherry)  earner pointed out, many of these duties would impose a heavy burden on a Minister. For instance, we have one Minister handling primary industry and another Minister mishandling housing. How can one person handle the functions of primary industry? 
I believe that there should be a complete look at the situation. Some functions are purely governmental. These relate to the functions of the Prime Minister, the Treasurer and perhaps control of the Public Service Board. On the other hand there are functions relating to transport and communications - Trans-Australia Airlines, Qantas Airways Ltd, the Australian National Line, railways, the Australian Broadcasting Commission and the Post Office. Also there are fundamental areas of social policy, such as education and science. Further there are the areas of social welfare, works, the defence Services and so on. Each one of these is a formidable undertaking. We have never considered how the Parliament should operate. How is the Parliament to keep constant supervision and scrutiny of these areas? How will a Minister overcome difficulties of geography in a country of the mammoth size of Australia? I do not know whether we have reached the stage when a single Ministry as such is an anachronism and we might have to consider doing what I understand is done in private industry or major concerns and appoint a parliamentary board of some sort, call it what we will. 
The honourable member for Casey  (Mr Howson)  as a former Minister should be able to show exactly how not to be a Minister. As I recall, he was misled by his Department. I think that was the situation; in fact, 1 am quite confident that that is what happened. But how did it happen? Did it happen because he was one man facing a great phalanx of people in a Service department? That may well have been the position. Was it because he was one person alone and had so many other functions to perform? We, as the administrators of an operational unit of the nation, ought to sit down and examine this. Honourable members on this side of the House oppose this legislation now. It is a totally irrelevant exercise so that the Prime Minister can reshuffle his friends and foes and so preserve his tenuous hold upon his high office. But as a parliamentarian I put it to honourable members on both sides of the House that we should examine very carefully the question of how Ministers are to operate. 
Honourable members opposite have a leadership principle allied with tight party discipline. As a result no matter what happens, when even that humble person the Deputy Whip of the Government parties says: 'I put the question', bang, Government supporters roll out like the automata they are. I suppose this is what one may call a totally mechanistic political party. It is hard to tell whether honourable members opposite are run by transistors or by clockwork. Probably they are run by clockwork to make them contemporary with their political attitudes. Honourable members on this side of the House have a caucus which considers all matters as equals. However, we come to the point where we ask: How do we make a Minister, whoever he might be, respond to public demand? How do we make the Minister and the Government respond to the demands of the public on questions relating to Aboriginal affairs, for instance, or to the environment? These are the questions which we should be discussing today; these are the questions which should have been ploughed around in the parliamentary system for weeks before we came to a decision about this. That is why we on this side of the House reject this measure. I, as a person, reject the operations because of the totally discourteous, thoughtless and selfish way in which the Government, and particularly the Deputy Whip, have bandied the affairs of this House. 

The honourable member cannot take a point of order while the Minister is taking a point of order. The honourable member for Dawson has been in this House long enough to know that. The honourable member will resume his seat 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Order! The honourable member . for Kingston will cease interjecting. 
Order! The honourable member for Wills will not debate the issue. (Quorum formed) 
The House should be aware that, in terms of collective bargaining, the industrial record of countries operating under that system is far worse than has been the case in Australia in recent years. The honourable member for Hindmarsh shakes his head, but during the period 1965-69 Australia lost 456 man days per 1000 workers. In the United States' of America, Canada and Italy the figure was 3 times as great. The Government completely rejects this motion, which seeks to cut across the discussions which are to be 'initiated through the forum of the National Labour Advisory Council. That is the proper, body to consider this question. We  can only assume, as I have mentioned before, that the honourable gentleman is seeking to recapture the initiative which the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions has so effectively taken from him in the public forums of this country. I believe that that is certainly a point which will impress itself on the Australian public. This is a political gimmick, introduced 2 days before the close of the sittings of the Parliament, against the background that no major questions about industrial' relations policy have been raised with me in this House during the 5 parliamentary weeks in which I have been the Minister for Labour and National Service. I do not suggest that tomorrow the Opposition should react by raising them, although it may well do that. We reject the motion. 
Order! The Minister's time has expired. 
Motion (by  Mr Giles)  put: That the question be now put. - 
Order! Before calling the hon ourable member for Murray I remind the House that this is his maiden speech, and I ask the House to show to him the usual courtesies. I call the honourable member for Murray. 
Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering both these measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
Is it the wish of the House to have  a  general debate covering all the measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
Order! The time allotted for all stages of this Bill has expired. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
The time allotted for the remaining stages of the Bill has expired. The question is,That the Bill be agreed to with the omission of clause 5 together with the amendments circulated by the Government. 
Government amendments - 
Clause 12. 
After Part VI. of the Principal Act, the following Part is inserted: - "Part VIa.  -  Resale Price Maintenance.  "Division 1. - The Unlawful Practice of Resale 
Price Maintenance. "66a.  -  (1.) It is unlawful to engage in the practice of resale price maintenance. "Division 2. - Exemptions.  "66c. - (1.) A person may apply to the Tribunal  for a determination exempting from the application of this Part the goods described in the application, being goods that he supplies or is intending to supply. 
Government amendment No. 1 - 
Before proposed section 66a, insert the following proposed section: - "66aa. This Part applies  to  and in relation to the practice of resale price' 'maintenance where that practice is engaged in or is proposed to be enagaged in - 
in the course of trade or commerce with other countries or among the States; 
so as to tend to prevent or hinder transactions, acts or operations in the course of trade or commerce referred to in the last preceding paragraph; 
by- 
a trading corporation formed within the limits of the Commonwealth; 
a financial corporation so formed; or 
a foreign corporation; 
in respect  of  the supply of goods to the Commonwealth or to an authority or instrumentality  of  the Commonwealth; or 
in the course  of  trade or commerce - 
within  a  Territory; 
between  a  State and a Territory; 
between two Territories; or 
between  a  Territory and a place outside Australia, and, except as provided by section 7a of this Act, not otherwise'.". 
Government amendment No. 2 - 
In proposed section 66g.- (1.) after 'supply' insert 'otherwise than by way of sale by retail'. 
Order! The question is: 
That the Bill and the circulated amendments be agreed to and the Bill be reported with amendments. 
Government's amendments. 
In clause 9 in sub-paragraph (ii) of paragraph (d) omit '(a) or (b)', insert '(b) or (c)', 
In clause 9 in sub-paragraph (ii) of paragraph (h) omit '(a) or (b)', insert '(b) or (c)', 
In clause 18 at the end of proposed section 110b, add the following sub-section: - "'(4.) For the purpose of any advice to be furnished to the Board by an actuary in relation to the determination of the number of units of pension that were equivalent to an amount refunded to a person from a Public Service Superannuation Fund, the amount so refunded shall be treated as if it were increased by an amount equal to two and one-half times that amount.". 
In clause 18 omit proposed section 110c, insert the following section: - "'110c- (1.) This Part does not apply in relation to an employee if, but for the refund to him of an amount from a Public Service Superannuation Fund, a transfer value referred to in paragraph (b), or a prescribed pension referred to in paragraph (d), of sub-section (1.) of section one hundred and nineteen h of this Act would have become payable to or in respect of him or deferred benefits referred to in paragraph (f) of that sub-section would have become applicable in respect of him. (2.) Where the application of this Part in relation to an employee is not excluded by reason of the last preceding sub-section but section one hundred and nineteen h of this Act applies in relation to him, sub-sections (5.) and (6.) of section one hundred and nine, and section one hundred and ten, of this Act do not apply in relation to him.'.". 
In clause 20 at the end of proposed section 119a, add the following sub-section: - " '(4.) For the purposes of this Part, a benefit payable to or in respect of an employee under a superannuation scheme shall not be taken to have been based partly upon contributions under the scheme by the employer by reason only that the benefit included interest upon contributions made under the scheme by the employee.". 
In clause 20 omit 'and' at end of sub paragraph (i) of paragraph (a) of proposed section 119d.- (1.). 
In clause 20, after sub-paragraph (i) of paragraph (a) of sub-section (1.) of proposed section 119d, insert the following sub-paragraph: - " (ia) in the case of the superannuation scheme constituted by the provisions of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act 1948-1971 and the other Acts relating to retirement benefits for members of the Defence Force - to a transfer value payable in respect of the employee under Division 3 of Part VIc. of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act 1948-1971 or to a refund of contributions and a gratuity payable  to  the employee; and ". 
In clause 20 omit paragraph (a) of subsection (3.) of proposed section 119j, insert the following paragraph: - " (a) so much of the amount paid to the Board as is equal  to  the employee component  of  the transfer value, or to the sum of the employee components of the transfer values, as the case may be, shall be paid by the Board to the Fund and, when so paid - 
shall be deemed, for the purposes of this Act other than section fifty-one, to be contributions made to the Fund by the person; and 
shall, to the extent to which it was payable to the person upon the termination of the employment in respect which the transfer value or any of the transfer values become payable irrespective of whether he engaged in further employment, be deemed, for the purposes of section fifty-one of this Act, to be contributions made to the Fund by the person;". 
In clause  20  omit 'and' at end of sub paragraph (iii) of paragraph (c) ofproposed section  119j.- (3.). 
In clause  20  omit 'him' in sub paragraph (iv) of paragraph (c) of proposed section  119j. - (3.),  insert 'him; and'. 
In clause  20,  after sub-paragraph (iv) of paragraph (c) of sub-section  (3.)  of proposed section  119J,  insert the following sub-paragraph: - "(v) in the case of a person who becomes a contributor after the commencement of this section and was, immediately before becoming an employee, a contributor to a Public Service Superannuation Fund within the meaning of Part VIII. of this Act, other than a person to whom that Part does not apply by reason of the operation of subsection  (1.)  of section one hundred and ten c of this Act - the number of units of pension determined by the Board in relation to him under sub-section  (3.)  of section one hundred and nine of this Act or, if that section does not apply in relation to him, the number of units of pension that would have been determined by the Board in relation to him under sub-sectioa  (2.)  of section one hundred and ten of this Act if that last-mentioned section were applicable in relation to him,". 
In clause  20  after sub-section  (4.)  of proposed section  119j,  insert the following subsections: -  " '(4a.)  Where- 
a transfer value became payable to or in respect of a person in accordance with paragraph (a) of sub-section  (1.)  of the last preceding section; and 
a transfer value of a greater amount would have become so payable but for the doing of, or the failure to do, any act or thing referred to in paragraph (b) of that subsection, the amount of the last-mentioned transfer value shall be taken into account for the purposes of sub-paragraph (ii) of paragraph (c) of sub-section  (3.)  of this section only to the extent to which it was greater than the amount of the first-mentioned transfer value.  (4b.)  Where- 
a transfer value became payable to or in respect of a person in accordance with paragraph (a) ofsub-section  (1.)  of the last preceding section; and 
a transfer value of a smaller amount would have become so payable but for the doing of. or the failure to do, any act or thing referred to in paragraph (b) of that subsection, the amount of the last-mentioned transfer value shall not be taken into account for the purposes of sub-paragraph (ii) of paragraph (c) of subsection  (3.)  of this section.". 
In clause  20  in paragraph (b) of proposed section  119j. - (5.)  after "shall", insert ", to the extent to which it was payable to the person upon the termination of the employment in respect of which the transfer value or any of the transfer values became payable irrespective of whether he engaged in further employment,". 
In clause  20  omit 'and' at end of paragraph (b) of proposed section  119j.- (3.). 
In clause  20,  omit paragraph (c) of subsection  (5.)  of proposed section  119j.  insert the following paragraphs: - "(c) subject to the next succeeding paragraph, one-third of the amount paid to the Board shall be deemed, for the purposes of subsection  (1.)  of section eighty-two, and subsection  (1.)  of section eighty-three, of this Act to be contributions made to the Provident Account by the person; 
in calculating the sum payable under subsection  (1.)  of section eighty-two, or subsection  (1.)  of section eighty-three, of this Act for the purpose of ascertaining whether sub-section  (2.)  of section eighty-two. or sub-section  (2.)  of section eighty-three, of this Act applies in relation to the person or in relation to the widow or widower or the children of the person, as the case may be, the last preceding paragraph shall be disregarded; and 
if sub-section  (2.)  of section eighty-two, or sub-section  (2.)  of section eighty-three, of this Act applies in relation to the person or in relation to the widow or widower or the children of the person, as the case may be- 
there shall be paid out of the Provident Account to the person, or to the widow, widower or children, in addition to the amount payable under that sub-section, an amount equal to the amount paid to the Board together with compound interest on that amount in respect of the period that commenced on the date on which the person became a contributor to the Provident Account and ended on the date on which he ceased to be such a contributor, at the rate or rates applicable under sub-section  (3.)  of section ninety of this Act; and 
the Commonwealth shall pay to the Provident Account an amount equal to so much of the amount paid under the last preceding sub-paragraph as bears to that amount the same proportion as the employer component of the transfer value or the sum of the employer components of the transfer values bears to the transfer value or to the sum of the transfer values, as the case may be.". 
In clause 20 in proposed section 119j.  -  (7.), omit " out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund, which is appropriated accordingly ", insert " out of the Fund or the Provident Account, as the case may be ". 
In clause 20, after sub-section (7.) of proposed  section  119j, insert the following subsection: - 7a.  -  Where an amount is payable out of the Fund or the Provident Account under the last preceding sub-section, the Commonwealth shall pay an amount equal to that amount to the Fund or to the Povident Account, as the case may be.". 
In clause 20 omit 'and' at end of paragraph (b) of proposed section 119k.- (2.). 
In clause 20 in paragraph (c) of proposed section 119k.  -  (2.) omit 'him'. Insert 'him; and 
In clause 20, after paragraph (c) of subsection (2.) of proposed section 119k, insert the following paragraph: - " (d) in the case of a person who becomes a contributor after the commencement of this section and was, immediately before becoming an employee, a contributor to a Public Service Superannuation Fund within the meaning of Part VIII. of this Act, other than a person to whom that Part does not apply by reason of the operation of subsection (1.) of section one hundred and ten c of this Act - the number of units of pension determined by the Board in relation to him under sub-section (3.) of section one hundred and nine of this Act or, if that section does not apply in relation to him, the number of units of pension that would have been determined by the Board in relation to him under sub.-section (2.) of section one hundred and ten of this Act if that last-mentioned section were applicable in relation to him,". 
In clause 20 at the end of proposed section 119k, add the following sub-sections: - " '(5.) Where- 
a transfer value became payable to or in respect of a person in accordance with paragraph (a) of sub-section (1.) of section one hundred and nineteen H of this Act; and 
a transfer value of a greater amount would have become so payable but for the doing of, or the failure to do, any act or thing referred to in paragraph (b) of that subsection, the amount of the first-mentioned transfer value shall not be taken into account for the purposes of paragraph (a) of sub-section (2.) of this section. (6.) Where- 
a transfer value became payable to or in respect of a person in accordance with paragraph (a) of sub-section (1.) of section one hundred and nineteen H of this Act; and (b) a transfer value of a smaller amount would have become so payable but for the doing of, or the failure to do, any act or thing referred to in paragraph (b) of that sub-section, the amount of the last-mentioned transfer value shall not be taken into account for the purposes of paragraph (a) of sub-section (2.) of this section.". 
In clause 20 in paragraph (b) of proposed section 119p.  -  (1.) omit 'any other', insert 'a'. 
In clause 20, at the end of proposed section 119p, add the following sub-section: - " '(6.) A reference in paragraph (b), (c) or (d) of sub-section (1.) of this section to a period of employment of a person does not include a reference to a period of employment in relation to which a preceding paragraph of that sub-section applies.". 
In clause 20 in paragraph (a) of proposed section 119w. - (2.), omit ", at a time when he was employed in public employment or after he had completed twenty years' eligible employment,". 
In clause 20 after sub-section (2.) of proposed section 119w, insert the following subsection: - "'(2a.) Paragraph (a) of the last preceding subsection does not apply in relation to a person unless - 
at the date that the Board is satisfied was the date on which he became incapable of performing the duties referred to in that paragraph, he was employed in public employment or had completed twenty years' eligible employment; or 
at that date he was over the age of sixty years and, at the date when he attained that age, he was employed in public employment.". 
In clause In proposed section 119w. - (3.) omit "the last preceding sub-section", insert "the last two preceding sub-sections". 
In clause 20 in proposed section 119zc. - (3) after 'shall', Insert 'so far as is practicable'. 
In clause 20 in proposed section 119zc. - (5) omit "the premiums in respect of any life policies assigned to the Board in accordance with subsection (3.) of this section or issued in accordance with the last preceding sub-section", insert "so much of any premium payable in respect of any life policy assigned to the Board in accordance with sub-section (3.) of this section or issued in accordance with the last preceding sub-section as relates to a period during which the personis an employee". 
In clause 22(1.) omit "other than a person to whom Part IX. of the Superannuation Act 1922-1970 applies". 
In clause 22(1.) omit "immediately before he became an employee ", insert " on the  first  day of January, One thousand nine hundred and seventy ". 
In clause 22 after sub-clause (2.), insert the following sub-clauses: - " (2a.) An election under section 82z of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act 1948-1971 by a person to whom sub-section (1.) of section 9 of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act 1971 applies also has effect, in relation to a person to whom sub-section (1.) of this section applies, as an election duly made by that person under sub-section (1.) of this section. " (2b.) In the application of Part IX. of the Superannuation Act 1922-1971 in relation to  a  person who has made an election under subsection (1.) of this section, the reference in subsection (3.) of section 111 of that Act to the commencement of the Superannuation Act 1971 shall be read as a reference to the thirty-first day of December, One thousand nine hundred and sixty-nine.". 
In clause 23 omit sub-clauses (2.) and (3.), insert the following sub-clauses: - " (2.) Notwithstanding the last preceding subsection, section S3 or 86 of the Superannuation Act 1922-1971 does not apply in relation to a person to whom that sub-section applies unless the person elects within twenty-one days after the commencement of this Act that that section shall apply in relation to him. " (3.) If- 
a person makes an election under the last preceding sub-section that section S3 or 86 of the Superannuation Act 1922-1971 shall apply in relation to him; and 
a payment has, or payments have, been made to the person under the Principal Act other than under Division5 of Part III. of that Act, the election does not have any effect unless an amount equal to the amount of the payment, or the sum of the amounts of the payments,is paid to the Fund or to the Provident Account, as the case may be, within seven days after the date of the election. " (3a.) A person to whom sub-section (I.) of this section applies may make an election under section 119u of the Superannuation Act 1922-1971 within twenty-one days after the commencement of this Act. " (3b.) The Board may, if it is satisfied that there are special circumstances that justify it in so doing, extend the period for the making of an election referred to in sub-section (2.) or subsection (3a.) of this section. "(3c.) Sub-section (2.) of section 119y of the Superannuation Act 1922-1971 does not apply in relation to a person to whom sub-section (1.) of this section applies.". 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill reported with amendments; report - by leave - adopted. 
Order! The time allotted for discussion in the Committee stage has now expired. The question is, That the Bill and amendments circulated by the Government be agreed to and the Bill be reported with amendments'. 
Government's amendments. 
Act  1948-1970*  is in this Act referred to as the Principal Act. "(3.) The Principal Act, as amended by this Act, may be cited as the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act  1948-1971.". 
In clause  7,  at the end of proposed sec tion  82j,  add the following sub-section: - "'(4.) For the purposes of this Part, a benefit payable to or in respect of a member under a superannuation scheme shall not be taken to have been based partly on contributions under the scheme by the employer by reason only that the benefit included interest upon contributions made under the scheme by the member.". 
In clause 7 in sub-paragraph (i) of paragraph (a) of proposed section 82l. - (1.) after "Part", insert "or to a refund of contributions and a gratuity payable to the member". 
In clause 7 in proposed section 82r. - (3.) after "shall", insert ", to the extent to which it was payable to the member upon the termination of the employment in respect of which the transfer value or any of the transfer values became payable irrespective of whether he engaged in further employment,". 
In clause 7 in proposed section 82r.  -  (8) omit "out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund, which is appropriated accordingly", insert "out of the Fund". 
In clause 7 after sub-section (8.) of proposed section 82s, insert the following subsection: - "'(8a.) Where an amount is payable out of the Fund under the last preceding sub-section, the Commonwealth shall pay an amount equal to that amount to the Fund.". 
In clause 7 after sub-section (3.) of proposed section 82s, insert the following subsections: - "'(3a.) Where- 
a transfer value became payable to or in respect of a member in accordance with paragraph (a) of sub-section (1.) of section eighty-two o of this Act; and 
a transfer value of a greater amount would have become so payable but for the doing of, or the failure to do, any act or thing referred to in paragraph (b) of that subsection, the first-mentioned transfer value shall not be taken into account for the purposes of paragraph (a) of the last preceding sub-section. (3b.) Where- 
a transfer value became payable to or in respect of a member in accordance with paragraph (a) of sub-section (1.) of section eighty-two q of this Act; and 
a transfer value of a smaller amount would have become so payable but for the doing of, or the failure to do, any act or thing referred to in paragraph (b) of that subsection,  the last-mentioned transfer value shall not be taken into account for the purposes of paragraph (a) of sub-section (3.) of this section.". 
In clause 7 in proposed section 82u. - (1.) (b) omit 'any other', insert 'a'. 
In clause 7, at the end of proposed section 82u, add the following sub-section: - "'(6.) A reference in paragraph (b) (c) or (d) of sub-section (1.) of this section to a period of employment of a person does not include a reference to a period of employment in relation to which a preceding paragraph of that sub-section applies.". 
In clause 7 at the end of proposed section 82y, add the following sub-section: - " '(4.) Sections fifty-one and fifty-two of this Act do not apply for the purposes of this section.". 
In clause 7 in proposed section 82z.-(9.) (b), after 'pension', Insert 'or other benefit'. 
In clause 7 in proposed section 82zb.  -  (1.) (b) after " employment ", insert " or had attained the age of sixty years ". 
In clause 7 after paragraph (b) of subsection (1.) of proposed section 82zd, insert the following paragraph: - " (ba) if he was an officer immediately before he ceased to be a member - within that prescribed period he attained, at a time when he was employed in public employment, the age that was the retiring age for the rank held by him immediately before he ceased to be a member or, having attained that age, he completed fifteen years' service for pension within the meaning of sub-section (3.) of section eighty-two zb of this Act;". 
In clause 7 in proposed section 82zh. - (4.)(b) after "shall", insert "so far as is practicable. 
In clause 7 in proposed section 82zh. - (5.), omit " The premiums in respect of any life policies assigned to the Board in accordance with subsection (3.) of this section or issued in accordance with the last preceding sub-section ", insert " So much of any premium payable in respect of any life policy assigned to the Board in accordance with sub-section (3.) of this section or issued in accordance with the last preceding sub-section as relates to a period during which the person is a member ". 
In clause 8 (1.), omit " immediately before he became a contributor ", insert " on the first day of January, One thousand nine hundred and seventy ". 
In clause 9 omit sub-clause (2.). 
In clause 9(3.), omit "this Act", insert "the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act 1948-1971". 
In clause 9, after sub-clause (4.), insert the following sub-clauses: - "(4a.) If a person to whom sub-section (1.) of this section applies makes an election under section 82z of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act 1948-1971, any election made by him under subsection (1.) of section 74b of that Act shall be deemed not to have been made. "(4b.) Sub-section (2.) of section 82zd of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act 1948-1971 does not apply in relation to a person to whom sub-section (1.) of this section applies.". 
Bill reported with amendments; report - by leave - adopted. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I present the following  petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives, in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of 10 electors of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 1. that the United Nations General Assembly Resolution 2603 XXIV A (December 1969) declares that the Geneva Protocol of 1925, which Australia has ratified, prohibits the use in international armed conflict of any chemical agents of warfare - chemical substances whether gaseous, liquid 'or solid - employed for their direct toxic effects on man, animals or plants; 
that the World Health Organisation Report (January 1970) confirms the above definition of chemical agents of warfare; 
that the Australian Government does not accept this definition, but holds that the Geneva Protocol does not prevent the use in war of certain toxic chemical substances in the form of herbicides, defoliants and 'riot control' agents. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray - 
that the Parliament take note of the consensus of international political, scientific and humanitarian opinion; and 
that Honourable Members urge upon the Government the desirability of revising its interpretation of the Geneva Protocol, and declaring that it regards all chemical substances employed for their toxic' effects on man, animals or plants as being included in the prohibitions laid down by that Protocol. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
But again what one would have regarded as an historic and unprecedented document which occasioned Australia's sending forces abroad to participate in an undeclared war was not and has never been published. 
I then went on to quote the Prime Minister of the day as having stated: 
The Australian Government is now in receipt of a request from the Government of South Vietnam . . . 
I then pointed out: 
He is admitting that whatever message may have turned up the decision had been made before the receipt of that message. 
I still adhere to that point of view, and I ask the honourable member for La Trobe to withdraw his remarks. 

 Mr JESS (La Trobe)-  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. I withdraw the word 'termiting'. What I meant was that in association with his post in the Department of External Affairs it did appear to me that the honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison)  had access to certain information. The other point I made was that he, as a member of the Department of External Affairs, should have known that the document existed. That is all I wish to say. 
Is the motion seconded? 
1 think this debate in the House this afternoon and the other debate yesterday evening in relation to foreign affairs and external relationships show the gap that there is in most instances between the Government and the Opposition in their attitudes and their thoughts on external affairs. 
The honourable member for Sturt says: 'Thank God for that.' Perhaps there might be occasions when we would need - if we were to follow the Opposition's policy - a lot more than even our own strength and our own will to survive. If we have a look at the situation we find that to a certain degree the policy of the Opposition on external affairs is a policy that is in many cases dictated by street demonstrations, by hippies and by woolly headed thinking that does not face up to the reality of the situation. I would remind members of the Opposition that in these debates during the past couple of days they have been placing a great deal of stress and emphasis on the number of deaths and on the number of people who have been maimed in Vietnam. Might I say something that I have said previously in this House, that is, that the members of the Opposition are not alone in their feelings and in their thoughts in regard to this, and no-one, unless that person had something wrong with him, would desire the loss of any one life under the circumstances of war. Those of us who have had any experience of war would, I think, say that with all the knowledge and appreciation of all that war brings. 
But there faces a nation a time when a decision has to be made. There faces a nation a time when those who have accepted the responsibility of government must take a decision which they feel is in the real interests of the country it is their responsibility to govern. It is easy enough now to say that the actions taken by this Government X number of years ago were unwise or wrong or, as has sometimes been said, were not in the best interests of this country. But as I say it is easy enough to say now that this policy was wrong. Is it not possible that the situation has developed to a point at which we face it and we can understand it and at which we find ourselves at this moment only because of the action that we took in the commitment of troops to Vietnam? I am sure that history will show that with the committing of troops to this area it was not only Vietnam that was affected but also other areas in Asia and, one might also say in view of the closely related world situation at this time, countries in Africa and perhaps even the Middle East. 
It has been said that we brought destruction upon Laos and Cambodia. I would point out, particularly in regard to Laos, that there was destruction and war in that country long before those engaged in the South Vietnamese conflict ever moved into it. This was not at the instigation of the United States or ourselves but at the instigation of the Communists of the North Vietnamese forces. This is something that cannot be denied. The Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  said:  . . the Government considers that Parliament should have an opportunity to consider Australia's foreign policy. I am, therefore, taking this early opportunity to make a statement. Important shifts are occurring in the policies and alignments of the major powers. These will have great significance for the area which is of most immediate political and strategic concern to us - East and South East Asia. 
We can discern the shape and the broad direction of some of these changes; perhaps we can identify trends. But it will be some time before we can assess fully their implications for the interests and policies of Australia. 
I think we should ponder those words because we have seen certain shifts, movements and changes in this power situation. 
We saw not so long ago an attack by the Chinese upon India. There was an attack by the Chinese and a takeover, if I can use that expression, of Tibet. The Chinese Communists influenced many of the African countries but I believe that by our action in Vietnam, by our showing that we were prepared to take certain actions and make a certain stand we gave these nations the ability to stand firm and not follow a course that would have led to their destruction. If one has a look at the situation at the moment the Communist influence in Africa, while it is still there, is not as strong nor as marked as it was even 5 years ago. When we are talking about the change of policy in relation to Communist China, while I do not oppose talking to the Chinese I would remind the House and the people of Australia that the late Neville Chamberlain went over to talk to Hitler but it did not make much difference. He came back and waved a piece of paper and said: 'Peace in our time'. He believed it and did everything he could - although I believe he was wrong - in his way of doing it to bring about peace. But because we were talking not from strength but from weakness talking did not achieve the ultimate aim which was the peace of the world. 
I want to quote from a book titled People's War: Vision Vs. Reality'. The writer says: 
Temptation to be less cautious still entices the Peking communists, particularly in areas near home. The areas where there are threatening manifestations of Mao's 'people's war' strategy - Vietnam, Laos, etc. - arc those where Peking's muscle can be most effectively used. Although nuclear armament may change the direction of China's strategic thinking, it is not impossible that a nuclear umbrella could give Peking greater confidence in promoting revolutionary war on the periphery. 
This is what we should keep in our minds. Let us talk to them, but there is no necessity literally to commit acts of obeisance before Mao and others. I believe they appreciate strength and it is from strength that we must deal. It is from strength that we should have all our discussions with them. To fawn upon them is, I believe, only giving away the safety and security of this country for years ahead. In this regard I think we should give serious consideration to this question: Is it not possible that the situation in which we now find ourselves - which has improved - came about only because we were prepared to take a stand in the first instance? 
I want briefly to make a comment about areas outside Australia. The honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison)  referred to the action of the Australian 
Government when the first commitment of troops to Vietnam was made, lt was acknowledged that there was a discussion previously and it was also acknowledged that a request for troops had come from the Vietnamese in the first instance. The letters from which he quoted, as always, can be quoted to emphasise either one point or another. The Asian area is of vital importance to Australia because of its proximity and as I have said before it is an area in which we can have tremendous influence. However, we should not allow ourselves to close our eyes to the events which are occurring in other areas in the world. Although we are not so closely involved in Europe and the Middle East now as we might have been a few years ago it is an area in which the events which are taking place can have an influence on Australia. I do not think anyone can separate in international affairs the economic an J political events. The entry of Britain into the European Economic Community is, because of the economic and political implications, a matter of vital importance to the people of Australia. Although 1 believe we should not pay as much attention to that area as we should pay to other areas which are closer to our shores, it is dangerous for us to lose sight of what is happening on the European scene. We should not feel that we do not need to make any endeavour to have an influence in that area at all. 
In regard to the Middle East I think we should give as much encouragement as we can to the countries of Lebanon and Jordan. Those 2 countries, particularly Lebanon, can have a stabilising influence on the European scene. We in Australia know the problems which confront Israel. We hear people talking about the United Nations, what it does and what it should do and also what Australia should do but I would like those same people really to examine the situation and see for themselves what a failure the United Nations has been in regard to this situation. I hope that we in Australia do not become lulled into a false sense of security by feeling that the United Nations has all the solutions to the problems confronting the world today. 
I want to make a brief comment on Australia's wheat sales to China. I was in that area in the early days when the United Kingdom recognised Communist China. 
After that recognition I saw a complete change of attitude in the Chinese towards the United Kingdom. No longer did China need the UK. The UK had done what China wanted and the Communist Chinese literally ignored the UK and insulted that country. If you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  were to visit China, as a group from the Opposition side did, and tell the Chinese that you know that they will not buy your wheat unless you recognise them would this not put into their hands the very weapon with which to destroy the economic and financial situation of Australia in this sphere? I would think that the one lesson which any member of the Opposition has learned in this regard in the political sphere is that you do not say to those who are your opponents something which will give them the opportunity to do the very opposite to what is in your own interests. I think this is what has been happening with members of the Opposition in regard to so many of the problems and difficulties that confront Australia. We do not minimise them. We say that these problems are complex. One of them is the two China situation. We say that these problems are complex and we also say that in the interests of Australia and its future this Government has done much for our safety and security. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
One particular feature of the Treasury minute procedure to which I would draw the attention of honourable members relates to the fact that in reporting a Treasury minute to the Parliament your Committee, acting on behalf of the Parliament, reserves the right to make comment on the Treasury minute, as it thinks necessary. Such comments, taking the form of Committee observations, are included as the final chapter of the Treasury minute report. In this regard your Committee has not seen a need to make comment on the Treasury minute relating to the one hundred and nineteenth report, lt has seen a need, however, to make 2 comments on the Treasury minute relating to the eightyfourth report. The first comment to be made relates to an inadequacy of evidence tendered under oath to the Committee regarding a feasibility study proposed for the High Commissioner's Office in London in 1966 and thought to have been abandoned. Without the benefit of the Treasury minute arrangement the full facts of this matter would not have been made available to your Committee. 
The second matter concerns an interpretation of a matter of principle. This principle relates to the important question of whether, and in what circumstances, departments should seek out their creditors. 
In its eighty-fourth report, your Committee drew particular attention to the failure of some Departments to seek out their creditors, the reasons being set out at some length in the one hundred and thirtieth report now being presented. Although the minute prepared by the Department of the Treasury on this matter may suggest some disagreement with your Committee's conclusions, your Committee is satisfied that its views and those of the Treasury coincide. In fact your Committee agrees that if supplies have been satisfactorily provided and there is an abnormal delay in the receipt of a claim for payment, it would not be a distortion on the natural course of events for a supplier to be informed that his claim had not been received. Indeed it was such a situation that led your Committee in its eighty-fourth report to refer to the need for Departments to seek out their creditors. I commend the reports to honourable members. 
Ordered that the reports be printed. 
I suggest that the honourable member for Dawson gives consideration to certain of the statements that he has been making. 
There should be a moratorium on debts for at least 2 years so that when a wool grower and his family get their hands on this money, it is not immediately taken up by a court order instructing them to pay it over to Dalgety's or some other company or the private banks. It is not supposed to be for transfer from a grower to the private banks or any other sector of the community. It should remain in his hands so that he can help his family and help himself to reconstruct his property. That should be the purpose of this Bill. 
The Minister for Primary Industry did not say one word about acquisition. It is quite obvious that if this subsidy is to succeed there must be acquisition of the wool clip. This is the policy of the Australian Labor Party. It amuses me to remember that, when the Opposition suggested in the House early last year that the wool clip should be acquired, it was ridiculed by the Country Party and the Government. Now, of course, the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  is going around the country preaching acquisition. The policy of the Labor Party is just that, with a controlled floor price. Our policy also takes into account the need to control production in relation to realistic market demands. This must be done as it has been done in the sugar industry. 
Also fundamental to the policy of the Labor Party is the effective distribution of money to those who need it most and to those who have the claim for it. The subsidy should go to those who have a justifiable claim for it, whether they are big producers or small producers of wool. The Government also could legitimately help the big producers of wool if it wanted to, by the correct procedure. For example, there could be a tariff compensation scheme to assist them against the penalties of the tariff. This is a legitimate economic argument; it is accepted by agricultural economists throughout the country. The Government can help them but this Bill is not the way to do it. 
What is concerning me greatly are these forecasts which are being constantly put forward - one might say almost deliberately. We heard 12 months ago that, within the space of a couple of years, the wool price would rise by 10c a lb. This was one of the arguments put forward by the Australian Wool Board, and, I regret to say, by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics as well. There is no evidence to support this. The international analyses of prices for acrylics, polyesters and nylons reflect the increasing efficiency of these industries. This is one of the factors which we must face up to, with rising costs. 
What Australia needs is a proper assessment of the future of wool, not the half baked schemes which are being put up by the Australian Wool Board or by other socalled authorities. There are too many people involved in this. The wool producers, people in country towns, the workers, in fact all of us, are involved in this irrespective of whatever politics we might have. We want to know what is the real future of wool. We want to be told the truth. I do not belive that a reduction in wool production will increase wool prices significantly. 1 do not believe that, but I do not know. In other words, speaking in economic terms, I do not believe the elasticities are there. We must solve the problems - the physical and economic problems that we can solve - in other ways and it might even be to our advantage to increase wool production. This is the approach we must take. 
Sitting suspended from 12.45 to 2.15 p.m. 
There is no point of order. The honourable member for Bowman will resume his seat. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Bury)  adjourned. 
Is the amendment seconded? 
Order! I apologise for interrupting the honourable member, but he cannot move an amendment until the amendment that has already been moved by the honourable member for Wills has been voted on by the House. 
Banks that if he intends to move an amendment he intimate at this stage that he is speaking to the amendment moved by the honourable member for Wills and restrict himself to that amendment. Otherwise he will forfeit the opportunity of speaking later and moving his amendment. 
Order! No point of order arises. The honourable member has made no reference to any individual. 
Be that as it may, the Government still intends to continue with conscription. These 12 young men whom I have named will be threatened with 2 years gaol for their defiance. Because the period of service under the National Service Act will be changed from 2 years to 18 months, I suppose that they will be gaoled for 18 months. But the Government may use the severity of a 2-year sentence to keep the fear of gaol before young men. I ask: Why is it necessary to maintain conscription when the former Prime Minister and former Minister for Defence, the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  said recently that he did not foresee in the next 10 years any danger of any invasion of Australia's shores. There is no foreseeable danger to this country. There is no fear of any invasion. It is not necessary to continue conscription which disrupts young men's lives and restricts their freedom. 
I ask the Government not to proceed with convicting these young men and sending them to gaol. I ask it to release the 2 young men who are now in gaol. The Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  who is the responsible Minister under the National Service Act, said in this House the other day that he cannot release these 2 young men, and he put the onus on to the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood).  But we know the Government can do this; we know that the Prime Minister can; we know that the Cabinet can, and we know that this Parliament can. I ask the Government to release these young men and not to proceed with prosecutions which in peace time when this country is not threatened put young men in gaol. It is time that the spirit of withdrawing troops from Vietnam was extended to these 2 young men in gaol so that they may return to their homes, not before Christmas but by next week, lt is not difficult to release them from gaol. These are young men of great moral courage, because any young man who can stand against the Establishment when he is between the ages of 20 to 24 is to be respected. These young men have taken a strong moral position against conscription as such as well as against the Vietnam war. Prosecutions against them should not be proceeded with. 
Oder! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Order! I suggest to the honourable member for Angas that he should moderate his language. 
I am sorry, the Minister has closed the debate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Order! Lock the doors. (A count having been taken) 
Let me tell members of the Opposition what the position is. The House had decided that the words proposed to be omitted stand part of the question. For the information of honourable members I shall read standing order 181. It is as follows: 
No amendment may be moved to any words which the House has resolved shall stand part of a question,  or  which have been inserted in,  or  added to, a question, except it be in the addition of other words thereto. 
Question so resolved in the affirmative. 
Question put: 
That the report of the Standing Orders Committee be adopted. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 

Order! If the honourable member for Wentworth used the expression in that context he should withdraw it. 
I would, of course, agree with the honourable member for Reid about night soil but I would also point out to him when he is talking about night soil being ejected into this area, that the Metropolitan Water, Sewerage and Drainage Board has made arrangements whereby the raw sewage from his area is transported through pipes to my area and discharged at sea. 1 agree with him that this is a very unfortunate arrangement, particularly as the water rates are levied much more heavily on my area than they are on his. So this is a bad deal from every point of view. But I believe that the Government is cooperating with the New South Wales Government. I have been on a number of tours of this area with State and Federal Ministers and the naval authorities present - and earlier the Army authorities - and there is no doubt that because of consultation different arrangements have been made to meet the wishes of State Ministers in this respect. But as has already been pointed out, the cost to the Commonwealth - that is the taxpayers of Australia - is a good deal more than other arrangements would have cost. The very fact that the trainer has been put underground so as not to disturb the outline of the landscape has been very costly indeed. 
Order! The Assistant Minister's time has expired. 
Order! I suggest that the Minister for the Navy withdraw  that  remark. 
Should we vainly play the game of democracy and freedom which will lead us to complete defeat or should we curtail anarchic freedom in order to achieve victory? 
The Cambodian Government may be right in believing that its survival is not compatible with any vestige of democracy in the circumstances in which it has plunged its country by destroying Prince Sihanouk. But let it at least be made clear that this new commitment is to a military regime which despises democracy. Let us have none of the absurd nonsense that was used for so many years to justify the Vietnam commitment - that we were fighting for the rights of a people to have a choice in the form of government it wished. I ask honourable gentlemen to read what the Prime Minister when Minister for Foreign Affairs moved on the principles applying to Cambodia in notice No. 2 on today's notice paper at page 10350. 
The Vietnam involvement for both the United States and Australia began with the provision of military instructors. Once that occurred it was inevitable that other obligations were incurred. The late  Mr Townley  in his statement stressed that Australia was not providing combat forces for South Vietnam, yet 3 years later we were. This happened inexorably because small obligations led to larger and larger obligations as the situation in South Vietnam deteriorated. Would anyone believe that the situation in Cambodia in 1971 is less likely to deteriorate than the situation of South Vietnam 9 years ago? And when it does, what honourable reply would this Government give to further requests for further assistance? It is unbelievable that this year, just when the Australian Government has announced the ending of its commitment to South Vietnam by Christmas, one should have to rehearse all the arguments used against the commitment, but applying them to Cambodia rather than to South Vietnam. The only thing this new commitment could achieve is to help prolong the war in Indo China. Small in itself, it is just another sign of the reluctance of the Australian Government to admit that it was tragically wrong in Vietnam and once again the Australian Government is helping to prolong a war which it has always refused to end. 
Well might the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  yesterday seek the plainest possible assurance that before any Australians are involved in the training of any persons outside this country the most complete statement will be made to this House. At the very lowest, the Minister for Defence failed utterly to exercise proper control and authority over his department, in his duty to the Prime Minister, in his duty to the Cabinet and in his duty to the people of Australia. If this Parliament does not express its just sense of outrage at his conduct and if this Parliament does not assert its authority by condemning this Minister, we may as well say with Marshal Lon Nol: 'Let us have no more of this farce of liberal democracy'. 
Order! The Minister's time has exepired 

Order! I suggest to the honourable member for Sturt that, first of all. he should address the Chair and, secondly, that he should restrain himself as far as his language is concerned. 
Order! The discussion is now concluded. 
Order! The honourable member for Sturt has kept up a constant barrage of interjections during the time that the honourable member for Angas has been speaking. I suggest to the honourable member that he not interject further. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
 In commenting on the estimates for the PostmasterGeneral's Department I support very strongly the remarks that were made by the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Jeff Bate).  In the last few years whenever there have been increases in Post Office charges I have said that we in the Australian Country Party would support those increases if they meant that there would be increased and improved services in country areas. Unfortunately, while this has been the case sometimes I am afraid it has not happened all the time. It is time the Department and the Treasury got together for further discussions about interest payments on capital works expenditure. Surely above all else the Postmaster-General's Department provides a service to the community. I appreciate that advances in technology have led to improved services to country areas. But the increased charges for these services have been detrimental in more ways than one. I do not quite agree with Frank Chamberlain who, in a broadcast, said that increased charges made a farce of the Government's policy of decentralisation but I do not think they help in any way. The recent increases, particularly in telephone and postal charges, have been detrimental to our country areas. Particularly hard hit have been those who rely heavily on newspapers delivered by post. The forwarding of newspapers to people in some country areas provides one of the few links that these people have with the news and local events. To impose these high postal charges upon newspapers sent to country people is a retrograde step. 
I appreciate that these charges were increased because the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme)  and his Department are trying to run the Department as a business concern and I accept the fact that it is a business concern, but we have to remember that the Postmaster-General's Department renders a service to the community. Although we talk about getting people into country areas what we have done in recent times in increasing Post Office charges will not help. Mention has been made of the closing down of post offices and of the Extended Local Service Area facility. I have made 2 representations to the Postmaster-General's Department in regard to ELSA services. There are times when, in putting into effect ELSA services, association of interest must be considered. While admittedly there are some areas that appear to be within a certain radius, business associations sometimes go outside that circle. I believe that on those occasions there will have to be some special arrangements made to provide the ELSA service to these people. As an illustration, I am thinking of one area where outside the ELSA circle there is a rail head. People in the area have to telephone beyond the area to make bookings on the train, to find out how the trains are running and frequently to check whether their seat or sleeper bookings are correct. Every time they do this they make a trunk line call whereas under the ELSA system it would only be a local call. In circumstances such as this special arrangements should be made so that such an area is placed within the radius of the ELSA service. 
There are some post offices in the New England area which have been closed but which should have been kept open. One post office still under consideration which I feel should not be closed is at Walcha Road. Walcha Road is a rail head and if its post office is closed it will cause inconvenience to many people in the area. For this reason I feel that that post office and others in the area should be kept open. I do not want to go over the ground covered by my colleagues who have spoken on decentralisation but we are trying to get people away from the metropolitan and urban areas and establish them in country areas. One of the arguments put forward for the closing down of post offices and the reduction of services is the cost of providing them. It is almost a matter of which comes first, the chicken or the egg, but if we constantly close post offices and reduce services fewer people will stay in these areas and, consequently, it will cost more to provide the services for a fewer number of people. But surely the same argument can be used in reverse. If we make these areas attractive for people to come in and we encourage more and more into them and thus decentralise our population, we will be able to make these services available in these areas at less cost. 
We, as a Federal Government, should take steps to see that we assist decentralisation and not work to its detriment. I want to pay a compliment to the New South Wales Government. Under the Minister concerned, John Fuller, that Government has done a tremendous job on decentralisation. It seems to be a pity that while it is trying to do the very best it can, we in the Federal sphere appear, even if not to be retarding it, not to be giving that State a great deal of assistance. Therefore I feel that the financing of the public works section of the Postmaster-General's Department and these other matters must again be given very careful consideration. But to my mind it is not enough just to give them careful consideration. I would hope that following discussions the Treasury and the Postmaster-General's Department would come to a far happier and more intelligent arrangement in regard to finance, so that we would no longer be met with the comment that we have to increase postal and telephone charges next year because of the increased expenditure of the Postmaster-General's Department. If there had been a sensible approach to finance - I use the word advisedly - we would have been able to absorb the increased salaries without raising charges. It is about time further discussions were held so that we can come to a far better arrangement on these matters. 
In conclusion I want to make a brief comment on something I have mentioned on more than one occasion. I believe, whether it is done by the setting up of a corporation or in some other way, that some method should be found whereby the Postmaster-General's Department can go onto the loan market and attract loans. On the telecommunications side, a business side of the Department, one of the problems confronting those who are planning is that they are never sure how much finance will be made available to them over a period of time and they are restricted because of that. In some cases they have to have 3 different plans requiring different amounts of finance. This does not add to the efficiency of the Department and is not an advantage to the services the Department is trying to provide. I would like to congratulate those within the Department on the work they have done, for the courtesy they have always shown me in my electorate, and on the services they have rendered to the people within the framework of the Department. I believe that the Post Office can be made far more efficient and that it can be used to implement, to a far greater extent, part of the essence of  our  policy regarding country areas - the decentralisation of people and organisations. 
Order! There is no substance in a point of order. 
There is also a 3-year improvement and master project for the Stuart and Barkly highways at a cost of $15m, and primary and pre-schools at Bradshaw in Alice Springs and Nakara in Darwin at a cost of $2.475m. Referred to the Committee for report are projects which include the Stokes Hill Power Station Stage 5 extension, the central zone sewerage scheme in Darwin at a proposed cost of $3. 2m, the Sanderson subdivision in Darwin, and the Katherine sewerage scheme at a proposed cost of $1.3m. These people that the Labor Party sends to the Northern Territory get publicity in the Press but come down south and make these remarks and, as I have proved tonight, almost everything they say is wrong. I warn the people of the Northern Territory, the people of the rest of Australia, and the members of this Parliament against these people who go to the Northern Territory and then make these utterly wrong and mischievous statements. 
Order! 
The honourable member's time has expired. 
In regard to the point of order raised by the Minister for Customs and Excise, the special circumstances have been accepted by the Chair, and the reason for the personal explanation at this time. I appreciate that to explain his particular point of view and to substantiate his explanation of what he had said the Leader of the Opposition finds it necessary to quote from the report. I have been listening very carefully to the explanation of the Leader of the Opposition and I feel that at this time he is perhaps getting a little into the field of debating the question rather than making a personal explanation. I hope that he will be able to conclude his remarks in a very short time. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Is leave granted? 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Does the Leader of the Opposition claim to have been misrepresented? 
The Minister has not in fact corrected any misrepresentation if he repeats what I had said. But what I said and what I have said for years, ever since  Sir Robert  Menzies and  Senator Gorton,  as he then was, rejected the Martin committee's recommendations about teachers colleges in 1965, is that the Commonwealth treats teachers colleges differently from all other forms of tertiary education. It is not false for me to say that, as the Minister said it was during question time today. What I said is true. The Commonwealth does make - it made throughout the 1960s - a commitment for universities. There is an Australian Universities Commission. It is a statutory body. Nobody has suggested that it be repealed. As long as it is there it makes reports, which to a great extent the Parliament adopts. There is no such permanent commitment towards teachers colleges. 

 Mr MALCOLM FRASER (WannonMinister for Education and Science) -  Mr Chairman- 
Teacher education must become  a  fully recognised branch of tertiary education. At present it is the only form of tertiary education to which the Commonwealth makes no permanent commitment. 
That statement is false, because teacher education is undertaken in colleges of advanced education and in universities and the Commonwealth Government has a permanent commitment to those institutions in addition to providing unmatched capital grants to teachers colleges of tens of millions of dollars. For the Leader of the Opposition to persist in this fantasy and myth is something I cannot understand. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
Clause 3. 
The Treasurer may issue out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund and apply for the services specified in the Second Schedule to this Act, in respect of the year ending on the thirtieth day of June, One thousand nine hundred and seventy-two, the sum of One thousand, seven hundred and fourteen million, seven hundred and sixty-nine thousand dollars. 
Clause 4. 
The sums authorized by the Supply Act (No. 1) 1971-72 and by the last preceding section to be issued out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund, amounting, as appears by the First Schedule to this Act, in the aggregate to the sum of Two thousand, nine hundred and thirty-four million, five hundred and twenty-seven thousand dollars, are appropriated, and shall be deemed to have been appropriated, as from the first day of July, One thousand nine hundred and seventy-one, for the services expressed in the Second Schedule to this Act in respect of the financial year that commenced on that date. 
First Schedule. 

<graphic href="075131197111110_103_0.jpg"></graphic>

I move: 
In clause 3, omit " One thousand, seven hundred and fourteen million, seven hundred and sixty-nine thousand ", insert " One thousand, five hundred and seventy-six million, five hundred and fifty-four thousand ". 
In clause 4, after " 1971-72 ", insert " , by the Supply Act (No. 3) 1971-72 ". 
In the First Schedule, omit the Schedule, insert the following Schedule: - 
Section 4. 

<graphic href="075131197111110_103_1.jpg"></graphic>

My friend the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  and his Party co-operated in putting through the Supply Bill (No. 3) on Tuesday of this week. As I pointed out at the time, it will not add to the amount of money in the appropriation. It is necessary, therefore, to make the consequential amendments which these amendments will make to the Appropriation Bill. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report - by leave - adopted. 
Order! Is it the wish of the House to follow the suggestion of the Minister? There being no objection, I will allow that practice to be followed. 
Order! There is no substance in the point of order. I suggest that the honourable member for Hunter resume his seat. 
I ask for leave of the House to present the report of the Australian branch delegation to the Seventeenth Commonwealth Parliamentary Asso ciation Conference held at Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, during September 1971 and to make a statement in connection with it. 
The motion before the House at the moment is: That the message be taken into consideration forthwith. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Motion (by  Mr Swartz)  proposed: 
That this House associates itself with Senate message No. 235 and endorses fully the sentiments expressed in the message. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Irwin)  adjourned. 
Order! The discussion is now concluded. 

Order! There is no point of order. The honourable member for Chifley will resume his seat. I again suggest that the honourable member look at the Standing Orders and ascertain what is a point of order. Honourable members have taken a number of what they have claimed to be points of order. They have not been points of order. 1 suggest that they note what I have said, because if fraudulent points of order are taken the Chair will take action. 
The honourable member for Reid cried over a number of social policies, and I think that he was a little uncertain as to whether this Bill was to be a good thing or whether it was to be not so good. I have referred to his attitude towards the Home Builders Account. But a curious contradiction arose between the honourable member for Reid and some of his colleagues. The honourable member for Reid stated, as I remember it. that the position brought about by this Bill would be worse in the first year and thereafter it would not be so bad. A number of other honourable members opposite stated that the position would be better in the first year and then it would deteriorate. I think that this is a clear contradiction which might be cleared up between honourable members opposite and perhaps they should examine it to see where it leads them. 
Of course, the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Bury),-  having had experience in this portfolio, understood the value of the Bill that is before the House. He also referred to a most important ingredient of any housing policy, that is, the social presumptions of any government which would desire to have an adequate housing policy. In this respect he touched upon some of the quaint household and family policies which were adopted by the Opposition at its Launceston conference and in the days before the Launceston conference. Earlier in the debate reference was made to the Opposition's attitude to Australian fa mi Ii - s and to the overall 2 per cent interest concession on all institutional lending, which policy was adopted at Launceston. This matter was mentioned by a number of honourable members opposite. I merely want to make one comment about the promise of an overall 2 per cent interest concession on institutional lending. It has no welfare aspect to it whatsoever, lt is designed to help most those who negotiate the biggest mortgages, and it would assist 'hose who, in negotiating the biggest mortgages, bid interest rates up. lt would make such a subvention a hostage to higher interest rates, and that should be examined, lt is a welfare policy that would operate in absolute and complete regression from the way in which it should operate. The manner in which assistance would be granted is such that the  policy would be a profligate rich man's dream,'yet the Opposition has proposed this pol-' icy. It has proposed it as an alternative housing policy for the nation. It should be examined for what it contains. As the honourable member for Wentworth also pointed out, it would act as a very effective disincentive to saving. The smaller the amount saved, the higher the mortgage, and the more assistance the Opposition would have to give - yet this is put forward as a welfare policy. 
Other matters were mentioned by the Opposition. Mention should be made of those matters. Perhaps time will not allow me to reply to them fully. But I think I should reply to one matter raised by the honourable member for Bennelong. He was concerned whether building societies would be able to develop their own revolving funds if this Bill were passed, as they have been able to do under the home builders account arrangements in the past. They will be able to develop their own revolving funds under this scheme, as they have done in the past. There is a distinction between the advances which are for 53 years and the grants which are for 30 years. After discussion it is quite clear that, when adjustments are made for the difference in years and for the periods during which building societies can lend, they have the facilities to develop their own separate accounts and their own separate revolving funds, and T will be seeing that this does operate and that the societies will bc in no way disadvantaged as a result of the passage of this Bill. 
The honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin)  made it perfectly clear, from his very wide experience in the housing field, that he understands the Bill and he understands, as was not evident from some other speakers, the real ingredients in the changes in land costs in parts of some capital cities of Australia. The honourable member for Kennedy appreciates the value of the Bill, and I was pleased to see that he also appreciates how much the Minister in his home State would like the Bill passed. 
Other matters have been mentioned, but I have to refer once again to the amendment because it is important. The amendment enjoins us that all words after That' be omitted and 'this House is of opinion that the Commonwealth Government should provide theStates with adequate funds and so on and so forth be inserted. The amendment does not say that this House while supporting the present Bill is of the opinion that certain things should happen or that without prejudice to the passage of the present Bill this House is of the opinion that certain things should happen. The amendment says 'this House is of the opinion'. Let this be clearly understood, against the background of the wishes of the State Ministers: If this amendment is carried the Bill wilt not be passed. The money will be denied to the States. The amendment is a clear negative. It allows of no equivocation. It will deny the second reading of the Bill. It will deny the passage of the Bill in this House. It allows of no equivocation or modification in that respect. So I would ask the Opposition to consider carefully whether, when the. motion is put, it will vote for an amendment that will deny to the States the assistance which they want and which is enshrined in the Bill. The amendment does not allow of that modification. It is not of the type I have indicated.  1  would suggest that the Opposition join with the Government in passing this Bill unanimously. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr Uren's amendment)  stand part of the question. 
Order! What the honourable member for Reid is putting does not constitute a point of order, and he has been in this House long enough to know this. 
Order! As it is now 2 hours after the time fixed for the meeting of the House, the debate on the motion is interrupted. 
Motion (by  Mr Nixon)  agreed to: 
That the time for the discussion of notices be extended until 12.45 p.m. 
Furthermore, I believe that the sales of wine have not in fact dropped. What is true to say is that there has not been an increasing demand for wine year by year such as there has been in the past and that the grape growers and the wine industry can properly claim to have been suffering from the fact that there has not been an increase in demand rather than that that demand has been diminishing. This needs to be taken into consideration by the Government when looking at this matter. 
So I would say this: Not because of what the Government has done but because of what has been done by the vignerons and by the sellers and by the mark-ups since then, there has probably been an effect on the demand for wine, particularly wine in half flagons and in flagons; and that this in turn has reflected back not on the wine houses, not on the great names who bottle wine, but on the grape growers in areas where wine is sold very largely in half flagons or flagons. If that is so, I think that the time has come when the Government could well, when considering its next Budget, examine the effects on the wine industry of the factors I have suggested, consider alternative methods of raising taxation on wine because wine should not be free of tax, and perhaps put a paper before the Parliament or before members showing the pros and cons of different ways of raising tax on wines. It could well be - and I know that there are difficulties in this - that a retail sales tax on wine might bring in as much revenue as the excise at present does; that the tax would be imposed at the end point of sale rather than at the beginning and there would therefore be no mark-ups. That might well stimulate the sale of half flagons and flagons of wine over and above what is at present the result. 
I am not advocating at this stage thai this should be done - this imposition of a retail sales tax - but I am advocating that the Government, in formulating its "next Budget, should give full consideration to whether it might produce as much revenue and lower the price of wine. Perhaps the Government also could let us know - because I do not at this stage know - whether in fact that would be a better way of doing it or not. For the moment I cannot support the motion moved by the honourable member for Angas. Knowing the work that was put into this matter by the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  and by other honourable Ministers and the long hours spent with officials in reaching the modus operandi of this, I know that it was not an ill thought out piece of bureaucratic introduction. 
Order! I suggest that the word 'hypocrisy' is being used a little bit too frequently in this House. It is being directed in general terms but also sometimes by way of inference in particular terms. 1 think it might be wiser at this stage for the Committee, and the House, to pause and give consideration to the use of this word. I would also remind the honourable member that he should not refer to matters that have already been dealt with in a previous debate, except perhaps by way of illustration. 
Today a motion was moved that this Parliament express its gratitude to those soldiers who served in Vietnam. The narrowness with which those men are treated on their return from Vietnam is appalling. 
I will not deal with the cost of dwellings. I will deal with that matter when speaking to a later amendment. I want to deal with the narrowness with which the Government, of which you are a supporter,  Mr Chairman,  treats members of the Services, for instance those naval personnel who serve on the troop ship HMAS 'Sydney'. In taking troops to Vietnam this ship enters a war zone and sails through dangerous waters. This ship has been used to transport soldiers to and from Vietnam, but when those who serve in it return to this country and make an application for a war service home loan their application is refused on every occasion. Even though many of these men have paid many visits to Vietnam, because they did not stay a sufficient time within a danger area they are excluded from the war service homes scheme. 
When someone on the Government side moves a motion such as the one that was moved earlier today relating to troops who have served in Vietnam have I not the right to start talking about hypocrisy? I will continue to use that word. I will use it again when we deal with the question of housing costs later in the Committee stage. If one wants to mention war records, I can compare mine with that of the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin)  and other honourable members. But let us not talk about the past; let us talk of the future. I want to see the war service homes scheme, which T commend, extended because it is the right of every Australian to have the security of a home, and meeting the cost involved in obtaining that home should not be a drudgery. 
In the early history of this Government the war service homes scheme was one of the finest schemes ever introduced in this nation. I only hope that in the time of a Labor government, when I may have the responsibility of administering the War Service Homes Act, I can spread the benefits of this legislation amongst many Australians to show that we are concerned not only about the ex-serviceman and the serving serviceman but also about every other Australian, because I think the war service homes scheme is a fine housing scheme. I think the principle of it is a fine principle. I have expressed my praise that we have such a scheme and I have expressed my attitude towards it. I am not asking the Government to go as far as we progressives on this side of the chamber would go. I am talking to conservatives. I am trying to convince conservatives, who conscript people into the Army because they say they cannot get them to join voluntarily, that they can get people into the Services if they give them an encouragement. If the Government can offer better conditions more people may be prepared to give their service to the Army. All that we on this side of the chamber ask is that all people who join the permanent military Services be given the right to participate in the war service homes scheme. My colleague, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard),  who is the spokesman for defence in our Party, is to make a few words of contribution to the debate. He will deal in some detail with our attitude to the treatment of servicemen and our attitude in regard to war service bornes. I hope that the Committee will support the Opposition's amendment. 
Order! Before calling the Deputy Leader of the Opposition I suggest to the Committee that we get away from the shadow of this amendment and of the Bill and get down to the substance. I think that perhaps both sides of the Committee have been indulging a little too much in personalities and not discussing the subject matter of the amendment before the Committee. I think we might consider the subject matter of the amendment. 
Order! The question is that the question be now put. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Order There is too much conversation in the chamber, lt is easier to hear the conversation of some honourable members who are holding private discussion than it is to hear the speech of the honourable member for Cunningham. . 
Order! The honourable member for Riverina will cease interjecting. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows): 

<graphic href="075131197112020_92_14.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="075131197112020_93_15.jpg"></graphic>

I now come to the question of health. Here again the Commonwealth has already done a great deal to encourage expenditure of matters concerning the health of Aboriginal children. The first year in which the Commonwealth took over a responsibility in this field a total of $500,000 was spent. That amount has risen this year to over $1,300,000. Further, it must not be thought that we are dealing with only the general question of improved health and medical services and facilities for Aboriginals, particularly in the remote areas. As the honourable member for Fremantle has said, there is a particular need to deal with special diseases. Trachoma has been mentioned as one disease suffered by Aboriginals. Here, I pay tribute to  Dr Ira  Mann, a former  president  of the Royal Victorian Eye and Ear Hospital. The hospital co-operated with  Dr Mann  for many years in her research work and we know of the tremendous advances which have been made as a result of knowledge gained about that scourge which affected so many Aboriginal children throughout this country. Much has been done in the fields of tuberculosis and leprosy. Campaigns for the control and eradication of these scourges are being continued and developed in the States and the Northern Territory. The payment of special allowances to TB patients is under active consideration by the departments concerned. This is the first time I have been able to make this announcement. I hope to be able to announce that we shall be able to take this a stage further. The honourable member for Fremantle raised this matter this evening. 
I also want to say something on the subject of infant mortality. Not only must we look at matters which have been raised by the honourable member for Fremantle; we must look also at the possible need for family planning so that Aboriginal mothers will be able to space their children in a way that is available to European mothers in Australia. Our aim, above all, is to develop preventive health measures as opposed to curative sources which have been reasonably satisfactory. The really important task is to take preventive health measures to the remote parts of Australia. 
A number of most interesting matters have been raised during the course of this debate. I assure the honourable members for Darling and Grey  (Mr Wallis)  that I have taken not of some of the matters which they have raised. For instance, 1 have taken particular note of the request made concerning legal assistance to Aboriginals who come before the courts. I believe that much work is being done in Sydney in this regard. I hope that honourable members themselves will take an interest and help their own constituents who may get into strife and need legal assistance. We shall take into account these and other matters in the months to come. 
To the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  I say that we have taken account of the needs of Cape Barren Islanders. The honourable member referred particularly to the need to assist by way of capital grant co-operatives which wished to adopt new ventures. That is not a matter which is the subject of this Bill. As honourable members know, this is the subject of the capital enterprises fund. If there are any co-operatives on Cape Barren Island which wish to make application for a grant from that fund I hope they will know how to do so. I refute the charges made by the Opposition in moving this amendment. Although we appreciate the views and the motives that have led the Opposition to move this amendment, honourable members on this side of the House also appreciate what has already been done by the Government over the years. We feel we are moving in the right direction even though at times we would like to move more rapidly. Therefore we cannot accept the amendment that has been moved. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr  Beazley's amendment) stand part of the question. 

Order! Again I would ask the House to come to order and have the courtesy to give the honourable member who is speaking a chance to be heard. 
I believe that the history of this legislation is just one more example of a policy which I have never hesitated to criticise in this House, particularly the part played by the Australian Country Party. I have always believed that a responsible government that believed an industry required a particular line of action should take that action and should not go to the industry itself. Frequently, an industry is divided by internal wrangling and undue bias. To illustrate my point, the first referendum was defeated and within a matter of weeks after this defeat the international market looked like collapsing. I agree with industry leaders who maintain that if that same referendum had been put to the same growers a few weeks after the first vote was taken, there would have been an overwhelming vote in favour of stabilisation. 
The same problem has existed with respect to wool and the same principle that I am trying to elaborate applies. If the Government had acted in 1964, the problem would have been overcome. I believe that the great majority of members of the Country Party, if not all of them, believed in the reserve price scheme 7 years go. I have given credit to the right honourable member for Fisher  (Sir Charles Adermann).  I believe that it was one of the most important achievements that he was able to get through Cabinet at that time. Unfortunately, because of a divided and fragmented wool industry at that time, the industry was confused and the referendum proposal put forward was defeated. This was a great tragedy for the wool industry and similarly, the defeat of the referendum on the dried vines fruits stabilisation scheme was also a tragedy for the dried vines fruit growers at that time. It was pleasing to see that when they went back to the next referendum they made no mistake about it. I forget the actual figures, but well over 90 per cent voted in favour of the referendum proposal. 
The provisions of the stabilisation scheme are along the accepted principles of orderly marketing or stabilisation of incomes when a variety of commodities or fruits is involved. Separate funds are maintained in this instance for currants, sultanas and raisins. A base price has been fixed and there is also a relationship between that base price and the actual prices received for the season. If the actual prices received are in excess of a certain figure, of course, it is up to the growers themselves within the provisions of the Act to contribute to the stabilisation fund the amount of money required. Similarly, if the amount of money received per ton is significantly lower than the base price the Government has, under the provisions of this legislation, to put a certain amount of money into the stabilisation fund. Certain limitations are imposed in this legislation with respect to the maxima and minima. The liability of the Commonwealth is protected. At the same time there is a limit to what the grower will have to contribute per ton as compared with the relationship of the base price to what he actually receives. That is in accordance with the accepted principles of stabilisation. A similar type of formula was included recently in the apple and pear industry stabilisation scheme. 
A comparison of this stabilisation scheme with the previous one will show that they are quite different in several respects. In my opinion the scheme itself has been greatly improved. I refer specifically to the ceiling whereby the maximum rate of bounty of $23 per ton is applicable if a Commonwealth contribution is involved. As the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  said in his second reading speech, this provision did not in fact form part of the initial stabilisation scheme. Another improvement is the provision under which, where the bounty is payable in respect of a season's transactions, the Government will make an advanced payment against the industry's bounty entitlement. I think that is an excellent move. I believe that advance payments should be part and parcel of all stabilisation schemes. After all, there is a lag between when a producer actually sends his fruit to, as in this case, the packing house and when he finally receives his equalised or final return. A considerable period elapses. The making of advance payments is a step in the right direction. Tonnage limitations on currants, sultanas and raisins are another basic provision of stabilisation schemes. I do not want at this hour of the night to go into all the details of the stabilisation scheme. One can question whether the base price is a good one. One can question whether it is high enough. One can question whether the limits are sufficient. But, in all fairness, I do not think one can argue against this scheme being of great benefit to the- 
Order! 
Is the motion seconded? 
ls leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
However your Committee has wished to obtain certain financial information before we can confidently make specific recommendations concerning the scheme. For a number of reasons, which will be covered in the Committee's final report, it has not been possible to obtain such information in the form required. The Committee has now requested information from the Actuary on a different basis which it is hoped will be received early in 1972. Your Committee expects to present its final report early in the next sittings of the Parliament. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
As the honourable member proposed the motion he can reply and close the debate. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Navy. I preface it by saying that while I have an appreciation of the many problems confronting the Royal Australian Navy concerning numerical capacity, taking into consideration the position of Russian entry into the Indian Ocean and Chinese infiltration in certain areas in Africa, I ask: As the Royal Navy is co-operating in combined exercises with the South African Navy, could consideration be given to the Royal Australian Navy joining in these combined exercises? 
Order! I suggest to the honourable member for Griffith that he withdraw that remark and I suggest also that he has a look at the Standing Orders. A remark such as that does not help the Committee at this stage. 
Order! 1 point out to the honourable member for Wills that the recognition of Bangla Desh is a political factor and that matter is nol under discussion. 
Order! I suggest to the honourable member for Oxley that he stick to the subject matter before the Committee. 
There are 2 other pointsI take with him: Whether he likes it or not, there is considerable feeling amongst at least some sections of the legal fraternity in Queensland - they are not small in number by any means - that somewhat similar provision under the Vagrants, Gaming and other Offences Act in that State for possession of property reasonably suspected of being stolen have, in fact, been abused in certain cases by the prosecution. We do not want to see this sort of thing happen here. That is the first point. The second point is this: Why, in any event, have this sloppy, cumbersome way of drafting this Bill when it seems that the Federal Government has authority to clearly define offences for possession of a drug? When the Government has this authority, why does it not take it up and make sure there are no evasive opportunities which can be exploited by offenders - the Labor Party has no truck with them - who, as I mentioned in my speech during the second reading debate, are trafficking for profit to the grave detriment and the personal physical and mental destruction of other people? I invite the honourable member to advise us whether the Federal Government has this power. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 8. 
Section 235 of the Principal Act  is  amended - (a) by omitting sub-section (1.) and inserting in its stead the following sub-section: - "(1.) Where- (a)..... 
by omitting from sub-section (3.) the words " One thousand dollars " and inserting in their stead the words " Two thousand dollars "; and 
ls leave granted? There, being no objection; leave is granted. (The 'document read as follows) - 

<graphic href="075131197112090_19_0.jpg"></graphic>


 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Is the motion seconded? 
Order! The time allotted for precedence to general business has expired. The Minister for Supply will have leave to continue his speech when the debate is resumed. The resumption of the debate will be made an order of the day under general business for the next sitting. 
Sitting suspended from 12.45 to 2.15 p.m. 
Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 

 Mr SWARTZ (Darling Downs- Minister for National Development) - by leave - I wish to make a statement in relation to this matter. I do not think the particular time is important and I am merely quoting from recollection in relation to this incident. To the best of my memory - of course, I may be wrong - the discussion took place when I referred the matter to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and suggested to him that he could perhaps discuss the matter with the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon).  The Leader of the Opposition did come round and the matter was discussed. To the best of my recollection it was about the time petitions were being read. 1 may again be wrong, but 1 am merely saying that this is the best of my recollection. I can merely confirm that to the best of my knowledge that was the time. 
Order! The honourable member for Eden-Monaro said he wanted some advice. I will give him some more advice. If he keeps transgressing the Standing Orders I will ask the honourable member to resume his seat. 
Order! There is no point of order. 
-!. should like to be associated with the remarks that have been made this evening by the various speakers before me, and should also like to associate with my remarks my  Deputy  Chairmen.  Mr Speaker,  I am delighted, as I am sure you are, to be forewarned by the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  of his plans for next year. We will really appreciate that innocent look that he sometimes has on his face when we, with the advice of the  Clerk,  give certain rulings and he looks as though it is not possible that we could give such rulings against him. I should like to say how greatly indebted 1 am for the advice, assistance and friendship that have been given to me and to all members by  Mr Turner.  In the period that it has been my privilege to be a  Deputy Chairman  and now  Chairman  of Committees and  Deputy Speaker  I have always found that the advice given by  Mr Turner  has been in the best interest of this House of Parliament. 
Mention has been made of the contribution that  Mr Turner  has made both to this House and to the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association. I think we can say that  Mr Turner  has made his mark on this Parliament and in world affairs. He is known and appreciated at conferences of parliamentarians everywhere, and hia contribution in that regard has been to the honour and uplifting of this institution of ours and to our parliamentary way of life. I do not want to repeat many of the things that have been said by other speakers regarding  Mr Turner's  capacity and ability. All I can say is that I heartly endorse those remarks. I believe that the remarks made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  about the early days and  Mr Turner's  capacity and ability indicate why  Mr Turner  was able to face with equanimity some of the things which he had to face in this House, particularly in the early hours of the morning. 1 think that one thing should be mentioned which reveals the character, the sense of tradition and the ability of  Mr Turner  perhaps above all else, and that is the respect and affection in which he is held by the members of his staff. This is so because of his honesty of purpose and the contribution he has made by the work he has performed. It became no longer work but a service to the Parliament and to the community. We appreciate also that it has been said, and said truly, that no man can make a contribution that is accepted and remarked upon by all unless he has been supported by a wife who gives him support in every sphere and in every way. Those of us who have had an association with  Mr Turner  in both this Parliament and the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association know the assistance and the value of the assistance given by  Mrs Turner.  As we pay a tribute to him we also pay tribute to her. I join with all those who have wished them both well in their retirement. I hope that  Mr Turner  thinks of us kindly. If ever he is awake at 2 or 3 o'clock in the morning he will think with joy that he is in peace and quiet while we are trying to legislate the business of the country. 
May I briefly add my congratulations and best wishes to  Mr Parkes  as he comes in and takes over the duties that have been performed by  Mr Turner.  We know that  Mr Parkes  wil follow the tradition, the example and the standard set by the one whom we honour and respect this evening. 
 Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. In view of the existing economic situation will the Treasurer give consideration to removing the  2i  per cent levy which was added in the last Budget to personal income tax? 
I rise for 2 reasons.  Firstly  I wish to make a personal explanation concerning the statement by the Postmaster-General (Sir Alan Hulme) this evening and, secondly, to indicate that when the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Jeff Bate)  raised this matter in the House I had a gentleman in my room with whom 1 was discussing a repatriation matter. I was not aware that this matter was coming on at that time and I could nol leave this gentleman and return to the chamber in a matter of seconds. Mention has been made of my concern about the closure of country post offices. When there were particular instances in my electorate 1 sent telegrams to the PostmasterGeneral protesting strongly about the closure of those post offices. 1 feel that in many instances - certainly in the 2 in respect of which I made representations to the Postmaster-General - decisions are made by someone in the Central Office without a full appreciation of the particular circumstances. In both instances which concerned me there were circumstances that justified the retention of the post offices. Following my representations the Postmaster-General's Department agreed to keep those 2 post offices open. One post office was at a railhead and it seemed to me that the decision to close that post office revealed a lack of appreciation of the circumstances of that area. 1 do not want to labour the point. 1 agree with the matter of public importance which the honourable member for Macarthur has raised, namely: 
The urgent need for the Postmaster-General's Department to discontinue the closure of small post offices except where no replacements can be found for resignations, until  a  parliamentary committee examines the whole question. 
With other honourable members I had discussions with the Postmaster-General on this subject towards the end of last session. At that stage we made representations on many matters concerning his Department. 
I regret that I have transgressed. In speaking to the motion for the suspension of Standing Orders 1 was trying to make a personal explanation indicating that I do not support the motion because this matter has been highlighted by the honourable member for Macarthur and because my representations have been successful. Points of view have been expressed this evening and I do not see the necessity to suspend Standing Orders. 
Does the honourable member for Oxley wish to make a statement? 

Order! There is no point of order. 
comment upon the drop in the supply of the product. This is one of the problems. There is a variation in supply and in demand. In many instances it is because of climatic conditions over which no-one  - or  no-one here perhaps - has any control. Yet this can create a problem almost overnight. Sometimes these climatic conditions cause certain action  to be  taken which, because  of  circumstances which develop afterwards, may place further problems  in  the lap  of  this industry. 
I  am  sure that honourable members will realise and appreciate that many discussions have taken place  on  what  is  called the two-price plan. The  co-operation of all  the States was needed for this plan  to be  a success. During the discussions the situation changed almost overnight and  so  made  it  more difficult  to  persuade the people that the presentation and the acceptance  of  the plan - which I believe  in  the long term  Will be in  the interests  of  the industry - was really one  of  the answers  to  the problems confronting the dairy indus.try. The honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  referred  to  this when he said that the circumstances which had developed created many more problems. My friend and colleague the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Jeff  Bate) spoke about efficiency  in  the industry. I would like people  to  come  to my  electorate and  see  what the dairy farmers have achieved  in  efficiency over a period  of  years. The criticism  of  the dairy industry  in  regard  to  inefficiency certainly cannot be sustained today. There are, of course, as I suppose one will find in every industry and in every sphere of activity, people who are inefficient. But by and large, both the factories and the individual farms, there is a very high standard of efficiency in this industry. I feel sure that I can say without fear of contradiction that our dairy industry compares favourably with any similar industry in any other country. 
I had the privilege last year of visiting Djakarta and seeing a plant that was established there by the Australian Dairy Produce Board. The problems at that stage was that powdered milk was in short supply. There is no doubt that this plant has made a valuable contribution in 2 spheres, firstly, in relation to the domestic factor of that country, and secondly, as far as the Austraiian farmer is concerned. The statement that, since 1963, the Board has shipped butteroil and skim milk powder valued at $36m to the plants, shows its value in regard to the economic side of the situation. In 1971-72 about 10,000 tons of butter in the form of butteroil and 30,000 tons of skim milk powder worth about Si 5m will be shipped to these plants. That is a further indication of the continuing value of this policy from the economic point of view. But I believe it goes even further than that. There is more than merely the economic factor to be taken into consideration. There is the association between the people and the industry of Australia and the people and the industry of these other countries. That is at least of equal value to the economic consideration. 
I might for a brief moment comment on a "bakery 1 visited .in India. The plant at the bakery had been presented by Australia. As 1 watched the loaves of bread, buns and rolls being made I saw the words: 'This plant was presented by the Australian Government' inscribed on the plant. In al' of the advertising and selling, Australia's contribution was mentioned, lt might be said, as I have heard it said in some instances, that the average man in the street in these countries which have vast populations perhaps does not have a great appreciation of these gifts or contributions to his country, hut I believe that in certain quarters and in the long term in many areas it does get through to these people that 
Australia has made a contribution. Gifts such as these assist in a change in the dietary habits of these people and this in turn must be of tremendous value to Australia. Not only do we have to assist them to raise their standard of living and to raise economic standards but also we must, if possible, export our products to these countries and establish there a market and a capacity to purchase our products. I feel that there are occasions when the full appreciation of something such as this is not had by many people in Australia. 
A number of years ago I visited Manilla and saw an Australian plant in operation there. The gentleman who was in charge of that plant came from my own area. He was establishing a sense of co-operation between the people in that factory and the people of Australia. In this regard, as I have already said, he was making a far greater contribution even than that achieved in the economic sphere. Much has been said in the speeches that have been made today about the need for Australia to look for new markets. The Australian Dairy Produce Board has been doing this for many years. I would hope that we do not think merely in terms of finding markets in the Asian area. I believe there are great possibilities elsewhere. 1 believe that it is necessary for us to establish new markets and to hold the markets we already have. But I do feel that there is still an opportunity for us to sell our products in the United Kingdom and in the European Economic Community. Although it may now be more difficult, while there will be complexities and problems, I believe that it would be wrong for us to say in the face of this situation that it is impossible for us to sell in this area. This is something to which we can give a great deal of attention. 

 Mr Roberts, the  Chairman  of the Board, stated in his report: 
The Asian plants have also secured an increased market share for Australian milk products sold in South East Asia. In Thailand the Australian share of the market has risen from 3 per cent in 1967 to about 50 per cent today. In Indonesia and Cambodia Australia enjoys a market Aare of 75 per cent and 100 per cent respectively and 20 per cent in the Philippines. 
This is an indication of what has been achieved. There has been an increase in the price of dairy products due to a world shortage. I would hope that this does not give to our people a false sense of security because this would cause in the industry a feeling that it is not necessary to make such an effort to hold and sustain the markets that we already have. 
For the reasons I have put forward I think that this piece of legislation presented to us at this time is one that is valuable both to industry and to Australia. I do not want to labour the points that have already been made by previous speakers during the course of this debate. I just content myself with saying that this is a further indication of successful, co-operation between the Government and industry. 1 would like also to congratulate the Dairy Produce Board not only on what it has achieved in this particular sphere but on what it has achieved in many of its activities over recent years. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Kirwan)  adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from 5.50 to 8 p.m. 
Order! The question has been put and no ether motions may be moved. 

<graphic href="076131197202292_17_0_4_A.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="076131197202292_17_0_1_A.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="076131197202292_17_0_6_P.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="076131197202292_17_0_2_N.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="076131197202292_17_0_5_N.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="076131197202292_17_0_3_P.jpg"></graphic>

Question so resolved in the affirmative. 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Mr  Whitlam's) be agreed to. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Order! It now being 12.30 p.m., in accordance with standing order 109 the debate is interrupted. 
Motion (by  Mr Swartz)  agreed to: 
That thc time  for the  discussion of notice No. 1, general business, be extended until 12.45 p.m. 
This latest motion has been put to the House with the same intention to distort and discredit, lt will fail just as abjectly as the earlier attempts at distortion and denigration. It is quite plain that the Leader of the Opposition has neither encouraged nor condoned law-breaking in any form. What he has done is to draw attention to the issues 1 referred to at the start of my speech - the attempts by the Government to label as a criminal a young man who has not been tried and has not been convicted. He has also emphasised that it is not his business or the business of the 
Opposition to enforce the law. Nor is it the business of this Parliament. This is the important principle that the Leader of the Opposition in his public statements has sought to emphasise. 
He has also stressed the wretched nature of the National Service Act and that it will be one of the first tasks of the next Labor Government to repeal this repugnant legislation. Until it is repealed there is a duty to obey the law. This has not been denied by the Leader of the Opposition. It is also a fact that many hundreds of young men find it impossible in their consciences to comply with this law in any way. The question of conscience and the law is a very vital one. If men of previous generations had not broken laws for conscientious reasons we would not be sitting here in this Parliament. Infringement of law for conscientious reasons has been one of the main forces motivating human progress. It can fairly be said that the first man to break a law for conscientious reasons was the first to get down out of the trees. This is a fact of constitutional and legal history that must be recognised and respected just as the rule of law is recognised and respected. 
It is in that sort of context that alleged breaches of the National Service Act should be regarded. At a time when it is inevitable that the National Service Act will be repealed and the Government's justification for national service has disappeared, these cases should be looked at with some sympathy and tolerance. Of course these young men should not be put above the law. But nor should they be put before the law and this is what the AttorneyGeneral and the Government are moving to do. This is why I put it to the House that the honourable member for Diamond Valley is in gross error in referring in his motion to breaches of the law of this Parliament. The issue of  Mr Johnston  and his conscientious beliefs has to be tested by the Courts before any breach of the law can be asserted. In making this assertion the honourable member for Diamond Valley is in gross contempt of the rule of law, the law which he and his colleagues arc seeking to uphold. 
In conclusion, the Opposition rejects this attempt to attribute false motives to the Leader of the Opposition and impute the guilt of an endorsed ALP candidate. We maintain and we support the contention of the Leader of the Opposition that until this young man has been apprehended under the laws of this country and until such time as he has been tried before the court he is not guilty. But the fact remains that this Government has set out to use this issue, as indeed it has used the issue of conscription in a number of other similar cases, merely for political reasons. How does one judge the sincerity of a government that is prepared to prejudge a young man in our community because he holds a conscientious belief? The Government can prejudge this young man merely for its own political ends. We believe in, and as the Leader of the Opposition pointed out. we subscribe to, the laws of this country being upheld. At the same time this young chap has a clear right to be tried by the court of this country. If he is found guilty he then would be prepared to accept the penalties that are imposed under the legislation provided by this Government. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Solomon)  adjourned. 
Order! Does the honourable member for Lalor desire to continue speaking for a second 10 minutes at this stage? Perhaps I can say this without Hansard taking it down at the moment. In this instance, with the Committee taking the Bill as a whole and having discussed this matter with the Minister and with the honourable member for Lalor who is leading for the Opposition, 1 am prepared to give a certain degree of flexibility in relation to honourable members speaking for a second term. In this circumstance if the honourable member for Lalor desires to take his second 10 minutes now I am sure it would be the wish of the Minister, for the sake of expediency, for this to be done. 
Order! T point out to the honourable member for Prospect that the debate at the moment is purely on the approval of works which are the subject of a recommendation of the Public Works Committee. This is not a general debate on health services or health matters in Australia. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
The immediate question is: 'That the words proposed to be omitted stand part of the question'. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows): 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to National Development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 
The question now is: That the motion be agreed to. Those of that opinion say aye, to the contrary no. I think the ayes have it. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Giles)  adjourned. 
House adjourned at 11.5 p.m. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to national development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received 
Order! This discussion is now concluded. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Interior and it relates to the number of members of the House of Representatives. Can he inform me of the procedure in the event of  2  additional electorates being created in the western area of Sydney? 
-I congratulate the Government on the presentation of this paper on Australian defence and also on the statement made the other week in relation to the Vietnam situation. The honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  said that the Government talks about defence only at the time of an election. Of course this is not a correct statement. I would like to remind everybody that it is pretty obvious that the Australian Labor Party does not talk about its policy of socialisation of industry and everything else in an election year, lt talks about these things only when it is at the point furthest away from an election because it knows that if it ever put this forward as its actual policy it would be rejected by the people of this Commonwealth on that alone, apart from anything else. 1 want to comment on a couple of things that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  said. He defended the concept of Australia withdrawing troops from the Asian area. He said that it was completely incorrect foi us to say that the Labor Party would withdraw them immediately. He said that there would be a time of phasing out. To my mind that does not change in any way at all the criticism that we made of the Opposition in regard to this attitude. If people know that the troops are going to be taken out of this area, the value of those troops is immediately reduced the moment it is known that they are going to be withdrawn. It does not matter whether the phasing out period is 3 months, 6 months or even 12 months; the mere fact that it is known they are going to be withdrawn means that they are no longer of any value. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition went on to say that if and when the Opposition became the Government the troops would be withdrawn from Vietnam. Again there would be a phasing out period for the withdrawal. I remind the House and the country that at the time of the withdrawal of our troops from Vietnam the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and many members of the Opposition stated that while the troops were waiting to be withdrawn from Vietnam, they should not engage in any military engagements whatsoever. 
I was in Vietnam some 6 or 7 months ago and I can say that the troops in Vietnam scorned the statements of members of the Labor Party that the troops should be asked literally to sit on their tails and do nothing while they were waiting for the withdrawal. Anybody with any common sense or any appreciation of a military situation knows that if troops are to be withdrawn, they should not be allowed just to sit there and wait for the enemy to come closer and closer so that literally the enemy is right on top of them when the troops are being withdrawn and when the supplies and everything else are being removed. What would they do in such a situation. Would they drop everything, run up the gangplank on to the ship and hope that somebody does not shoot them as they are going up the gangplank? The point was that while our troops were in Vietnam, they were still accepting the responsibility that was theirs of defending the area. I will have something further to say about that at a later stage. 
This shows the complete folly of the Opposition's policy in regard to the defence of this country. The honourable member for the Australian . Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  in a broadcast today said that this debate was just a talk exercise. Let me say to the honourable member that it is more than a talk exercise. The Opposition's attitude shows not the gulf but the chasm which exists between the Government and the Opposition in regard to policies on the defence and security of the country. It may be talk having regard to the fact that no legislation will actually be passed but it also highlights what we on the Government side of the House consider to be important factors affecting this country. So, when the Opposition talks about the withdrawal of troops what it means is that Australia, under the control of a Labor government, would come away from a responsibility in this area and the defence of this area. 
I should like to comment on part of the statement made by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  to this House. The Minister said: 
While others have preached withdrawal, negativism and isolation, the Government by positive diplomacy and defence co-operation has achieved .  a  unique standing in Malaysia, Singapore and Indonesia. We might remember that when a British administration in 1968-69 intended to withdraw completely from Malaysia and Singapore, 
Australia and New Zealand said they would take responsibilities alone. In the event British policy was changed to allow retention of a permanent force in the area and the positive attitude of the Australian Government was rewarded. From these developments the Five Power defence arrangements embracing Australia, Malaysia, New Zealand, Singapore and the United Kingdom have grown. 
In my visit to this area I visited the fivepower defence headquarters, in charge of which was Air Vice Marshal Ron Susans, a distinguished Australian and a gentleman with whom I have had friendship over many years. He was the commanding officer at Williamtown Air Force base, which is in my electorate. We can be proud of this distinguished Australian who is in charge of the situation in the five power defence arrangements and we can be proud of the contribution that is being made by Australia to this area. These, are the things that are contributing in a major way to the defence of this country and to the defence of other countries in the Asian area. 
I do not think that the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  meant what he said to be taken as it sounded. However, he did say that we originally had obtained the support of Great Britain and that now we were getting the. support of the United States. He said that we should forget the concept that we must have the best and we should develop Australian industry, . as this possibly would cost less. As I said, I do not think for one moment that he, meant that perhaps as it sounded. Let us face the realities of this situation. We can be independent. We can stand firm for the things in which we believe. We can have a defence policy that is our own. But surely anybody with any appreciation of power politics and the. international situation must appreciate that Australia could never go it alone in any major conflict. As has been said on so many occasions, we need the support of our great friends and allies and I believe that the United States, the United Kingdom and Australia, along with the other Commonwealth countries, will always believe in freedom. It is interesting to note that in many of the speeches and comments that have been made there has . been a tremendous criticism of those who are the friends of our particular way of life. It was interesting to hear a question earlier today on Rhodesia. It is interesting to hear comments about 
South Africa. 1 do not agree with the policies pursued by those countries and I have spoken before in this House about them. But let us face it: They are friends of this country and while we may have differences with them and while we may point to certain aspects of their policy with which we do not agree, let us always remember that they also at some time could stand in the defence of our nay of life. 
As J mentioned earlier, I was in Vietnam some 6 or 7 months ago. I flew over the engagement. 1 was in an Australian helicopter while operation Ivanhoe was in progress. I went to the hospital and spoke to some of the wounded who had been brought back into that hospital. The criticism that was offered of this Government was that we did not give them the support that the troops felt should have been provided. They said that in many cases we had allowed them to fight in Vietnam with one hand tied behind their backs. I agree with this and I think that we should have provided more positive support than we have. 1 believe that a restriction of that support was caused by some of the media of this country because of the propaganda that they put forward. I would again cross swords with Frank Chamberlain. He and I have had many discussions and he knows that I completely disagree with him in many of the thoughts that he has in relation to Vietnam. However, there is one question that I would ask my friend Frank Chamberlain, and many others in this propaganda media of ours. Can they say - I do not suppose anybody could really answer this - that if we and the Americans had not gone into Vietnam when we did to help the South Vietnamese the whole of the Asian situation would have been completely changed? What would have happened in Indonesia? What about Thailand, Malaysia and the Philippines? I think we should consider these points when we talk about our going into Vietnam and what happened when we went there. Answer those questions and you will know why we went in. 
I believe that when the Government entered the Vietnam conflict it did the right thing and with the passage of time, history will remember that this Government and the United States did the right thing in that situation. I think sometimes we make the mistake of trying to assess a situation in the Asian area from our point of view. This is where we in Australia must change our winking. We sometimes try to impose upon these people our particular line of thought and the way in which we believe they should behave. There must be a greater degree of cooperation and understanding between ourselves and the people in this area so that we may understand their attitudes, their background and their history. At the same time, these people must try to have a greater, a fuller and a deeper understanding of the attitudes and views that we have in Australia. We cannot impose our way of life and our thinking upon them. We shall need to have a greater degree of cooperation and understanding not only from our point of view but also from theirs. It was because of this that 1 was interested to read a report by  Mr Vittachi,  a Ceylonese visitor who is the editor of a newspaper, the 'Asian'. He said that he felt there was a lack of understanding and sympathy and perhaps a lack of appreciation by Australians for Asia and the situation in Asia. I think we need to work perhaps a little harder to have a greater appreciation so that we can make a far greater contribution to this area. It is important that we do so. 
I had the privilege of being with Lord Casey, the previous Governor-General, when he was Minister for External Affairs. I was attending a conference and a reception to some Asian writers when they visited Australia. I shall never forget one of those writers saying that Australia could be the bridge between what he called the east and the west. I think this is still our responsibility. We can still make this tremendous contribution to the progress and development of this area as well as our own country. In my remarks this evening I wish to read an extract from the Minister's statement: 
In the present situation of uncertainty about the intentions of China and the Soviet Union, and the aggressive militancy of North Vietnamese throughout Indo-China, and widespread insurgency in our northern neighbourhood, a positive Australian policy founded on an adequate defence effort and on defence arrangements or understandings with our neighbours may contribute to confidence and stability in the region in which we live. 
I do not disagree with President Nixon's visit to China. The only thing I want to do is to remind the people of Australia of the time when Neville Chamberlain came back to London from a visit to Germany- 
The honourable member for Sturt may say 'Oh' as often as he likes. Possibly he would not have the capacity to appreciate the situation. But at that time Neville Chamberlain waved a piece of paper in his hand and said: 'Peace in our time'. It is good that we should discuss things with the leaders of other countries. But we must discuss matters from a position of strength and not from weakness. 
Does the honourable member wish to make a personal explanation? 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
 Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
It is with a certain degree of reluctance that I make comment upon this measure which we are debating tonight because, of course, as a member of the Standing Orders Committee I was present when this matter was discussed and the recommendation that appears in this report was made. Additionally, I do not want to appear to be saying anything against any of my colleagues or any honourable members who have been appointed as Assistant Ministers. How ever, at this moment I want to say something about these appointments and the recommendations of the Standing Orders Committee. I will not vote against those recommendations. 1 make that perfectly clear. 
One of the elements of our democratic way of life - one of the elements of our parliamentary system - has been the responsibility of members of the Ministry to the Parliament for the subject matter and for the legislation which a Minister brings before this Parliament. This is part and parcel - an important part - of our system and I would hope that the acceptance of this proposal does not and will never mean any lessening in the responsibility of a Minister to this Parliament. I am thinking now particularly in terms of the Committee stages of a Bill when questions are being asked. I know that my colleagues who are Assistant Ministers will not take my remarks as any personal reflection upon them, their ability or their capacity to fulfil the duties and responsibilities of their posts and in giving assistance to the Ministers to whom they have been appointed as Assistant Ministers. When a Bill is at the Committee stage the Minister must accept full responsibility for that legislation. It is at that time that supporters of the Government and perhaps, because of the circumstances, members of the Opposition particularly are entitled to ask questions of the Minister and to have the Minister responsible for the legislation responsible for the answers to those questions. This is all that I want to say at this moment. I want to record the fact that I hope the acceptance of this motion will never result in the lessening of ministerial responsibility because Ministers of this Parliament must accept full responsibility for the legislation they present and for the departments of which they are the heads. If this responsibility is ever weakened then our parliamentary system also will be weakened. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Order! 1 point out to the honourable member for Wills that the House already has an amendment before it. 
I believe that when petitions are presented the separate text of each petition should be read and should appear in the records. The texts should be read aloud. My friend the honourable member for North Sydney and my knightly, portly friend from Mallee said that this was of no use. In my time as a member parliamentary action has been taken in respect of 2 petitions - those which concerned the grievances of the people of Yirrkala and the conservation of Australian wildlife. I took part in the campaign for a referendum affecting Aboriginal people. Petitions were lodged in this House on about 100 occasions. Every time such a petition was presented it was part of the campaign. It may be said that this was taking up the time of the Parliament. So it was. The object was to convert members into an attitude of mind whereby we got some action. In fact the first petition was presented in May 1957. This led to the referendum being held is May 1967. There has not been sufficient action yet. However there is evidence over the last 10 to 15 years that a petition as an expression of public opinion is an effective use of the parliamentary forum. I agree, with the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  that it is such a valuable part of the parliamentary tradition that we should not reduce its actual effectiveness in the House but should take steps to see that the procedure is economical of time. 
I have no sympathy with the argument about saving time. The House has met for only 165 days since the last election. This is not to suggest that honourable members are not working hard. We work extraordinarily long hours. Members are busy in their electorates. But the fact is that this House has sat for only 165 of the last 900 days. I do not believe that this is a proper way in which to conduct the business of the country. The argument about things taking up time in here is absolute nonsense. Tn 1947 when this Parliament did not deal with Aborigines in the way it does now, or with education in the way it does now, and when its involvement in so many areas of foreign policy was less acute and many other areas of public policy were not before it, the House met on 92 days. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Is the amendment seconded? 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr Barnard's amendment)  stand part of the question. 
Order! I might pass exactly the same remark which was passed by an umpire to the late W. C. Grace one day. The umpire said in reply to the statement by W. C. Grace that he was not out: *You look at the paper in the morning,' I suggest that honourable members look at Hansard to find out what has happened. 
Order! The honourable member for Sydney will resume his seat. I said that if some of the  deputy  speakers- 
Order! The honourable member for Grayndler has no substance in his point of order. The reasons were given, although it was not necessary to give them. The question now is that paragraph (c) be agreed to. 
An amendment proposed shall be disposed of before another amendment to the original question can be moved. 
Order! The honourable member for Wide Bay is not quoting the correct Standing Order. I have already explained to the House that the amendment moved by the honourable member for Macquarie was an amendment to the original amendment moved by the honourable member for Wills, and not to the motion. The question now is that paragraph (c) be agreed to. 
Can the Minister for Foreign Affairs inform the House what evidence his Department has been able to discover as to the amount of supplies being given to the North Vietnamese by the Soviet Union? It there any evidence of Soviet military advisers being with the North Vietnamese and Vietcong forces? 
Order! I point out that the honourable member for Lalor cannot table the documents. 
Order! The honourable member for Sturt should raise it. 
non-interference in the affairs of other countries; and 
the right of all countries to determine their own future. 
That stands on the notice paper of this House. Why does the Government not continue the debate on that particular matter standing in the name of the Prime Minister instead of going on with the claptrap that is allowed here today? 
Order! There is no substance in the point of order. The honourable member will resume his seat. 
There is sufficient evidence to show beyond reasonable doubt, aggression was committed by North Vietnam. 
Previously the legal committee of me Commission had stated that the North Vietnamese army 'has allowed the zone in the North to be used for inciting, encouraging and supporting hostile activities in the zone of the South aimed at the overthrow of the administration in the South'. These activities are what the honourable member for Lalor is keen to describe as a civil war. There are many sorts of examples of North Vietnamese aggression against the South. For further evidence, I refer honourable members to a Radio Hanoi broadcast in February 1959 which claimed: 'Our attack has inflicted serious losses on the enemy . . .'. Again, in May 1960 the Politburo of the Communist Party of North Vietnam announced: 'The time has come to push the armed struggle against the enemy'. 
This year we have had the spectacle of North Vietnamese tanks rumbling into South Vietnam in overt aggression. This most recent high point of communist aggression has been acclaimed by the associates of the honourable member for Lalor in the Victorian Branch of the Australian Labor Party, who voted by a clear majority to express support for and satisfaction with what they described as 'this progress'. Need I add that the honourable member for Lalor, who one day may lead the Labor Party, has described this communist thrust as 'justified'? The logical follow-on from that point is that the honourable member for Lalor and large sections of the Labor Party, as evidenced by the Victorian Branch, obviously believe that the North Vietnamese and other communists have been justified in killing Australian soldiers. I am sickened by the approach of such members of the Labor Party and I am sure that every loyal Australian also is sickened and horrified. I have no doubt that the Leader of the Opposition will try to paper over the cracks in this latest expose over North Vietnam but what the Australian people are realising more and more is that the ALP simply cannot be trusted in the vital and delicate fields of foreign affairs and defence. 
Order! The Minister's time has expired. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering these Bills? As there is no objection, I will allow That course to be followed. 
Order! The honourable member for the Northern Territory will cease interjecting. 
The industrial unrest prevalent at the present time has highlighted more than ever the need for rationalisation in the number of unions, seven in al), involved in the manning of Australian flag vessels. Apart from being a cause of disharmony, the multi-union manning also has made more difficult the task of introducing training programmes and increased productivity. It is to be hoped that in the not too distant future it may be possible to reduce the multiplicity of unions. 
And in its stupidity the Government is bringing down legislation to prevent this. 
Order! The honourable member Tor Sydney has been in this House tong enough to know what is a point of order and what is not. I suggest that the honourable member might give some consideration to the Standing Orders. 
I notice that I have only a moment or two left. I would like to make a comment about development on the Queensland Gold Coast. I hope that those who are listening to this debate throughout Australia might take this as a personal invitation to  visit  our State because there is no other place in Australia which can offer the opportunities to have such a happy and contented holiday. It is not called the 'Sunshine State* for nothing. It is a glorious place to go to for a holiday. However, what I am disturbed about is the erection in recent years of big multi-storeyed unit blocks on the beach front at Surfers Paradise and in other areas. When the afternoon sun falls upon the golden sands of the Queensland coast these buildings cast a shadow across our beaches. I do not know what is wrong with the local councils or the people on the Gold Coast who allow these buildings to be erected on the beach front, lt is beginning to look like Miami in Florida. If anyone who has been to Florida compares Miami with the coast of Queensland, and for my New South Wales friends even the very northern part of that State which is similar to Queensland's southern coast, they will realise whet a crime H is to allow the construction of these buildings to continue, with the ultimate effect of spoiling what is truly an asset and a gift from God. So let us wake up, Queensland. Returning to the provisions of the Bill, I want to say how happy I am to see that Queensland is to receive another 9m. I hope that in a full year it will manage to get more. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Order! I would suggest to the honourable member for Sturt that he should be extremely careful when talking along these lines. If he has a charge to make against a Minister or a member of this House he should make it in a substantive manner. 
Order! I think it might be helpful to the House if the honourable member for Sydney would mention occasionally the statement that the Minister for the Interior made to the House. 
But the fact is that  Mr Westerway  is a very good administrator. That does not mean to say that I am going to support an indiscretion of this nature. I have no intention of doing so because I have a lot of respect for the electoral officers, both Federal and State, particularly  Mr Kentwell  who is my DRO, as being fair and unbiassed towards all people, irrespective of what Party they represent. 
There is one matter in regard to redistribution that I must mention. It took place during the last redistribution and I fail to see that it can be justified. I refer to the seat of Macquarie. It is definitely a country electorate, yet it has 11,000 more electors on its roll than the seat of Gippsland in Victoria. It has more electors than any country seat in New South Wales held by a Country Party member. I am wondering why the seat of Macquarie has 11,000 more on its roll than any seat held by the Country Party at present, including the seat of Gippsland. The Minister talked about re-distribution. I would like him to explain to me later why Macquarie has 11,000 more on its roll than has the seat of Gippsland, although both seats are country electorates. 
Is it the wish of the House to debate both measures together? There being no objection, that course will be followed. 
The discussion is now concluded. 
-Order The honourable member's time has expired. 
Order! I called the honourable member for Denison. 
Order! The honourable member for Sturt will state his point of order. 

 Mr Foster - I am making a point. The Minister cannot have it both ways. Honourable members opposite who are interjecting will stay here as long as I will. If they do not like it, they could get out and go home to bed. 
The question now is: That clause 57, as amended, be agreed to. 
There is no substance in the point of order. 

 Mr Foster - Why is the Minister interjecting about truth when he was just told by the honourable member for Stirling that he is not capable of remembering tonight what he said a few weeks ago? 
Is leave granted? There being no objection leave is granted. 
In paragraph (d) of the definition of 'amalgamation' in proposed new section 158a., omit the other organisations', insert 'that other organisation*. 
In proposed new section 158f.(1.) after amalgamation' (first appearing) insert ', and the association, if any, referred to in the last preceding section,'. 
In proposed new section 158h (1.) after 'a ground', insert 'that is consistent with the procedure provided by this Parliament and is a ground'. 
In proposed new section 158h.(2.) after made', insert 'to the Registrar'. 
In proposed new section 158j. omit proposed sub-section (4.), insert the following sub-section: - "(4.) Where the last preceding sub-section would otherwise apply, the Industrial Registrar may permit the organizations that have submitted the scheme of amalgamation to make such alterations of the scheme, or, if, under the scheme, an association is to be registered as an organization, permit that association to make such alterations of its rules, as he is satisfied will remove the ground of objection or otherwise bring the scheme or rules into conformity with this Act and the regulations, and, subject to the making of those alterations, give an approval under this section.". 
In proposed section 158l. omit sub-section (3.) and insert the following sub-sections: - "(3.) If more than one such statement in opposition to the amalgamation is duly delivered to the Industrial Registrar - 
the Industrial Registrar shall inform the  President  accordingly; 
a Presidential Member designated by the  President  shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, in consultation, if practicable, with representatives of the persons who delivered each of the statements, a statement in writing of not more than two thousand words in opposition to the amalgamation based on both or all the statements and, as far as practicable, presenting fairly the substance of the arguments against the amalgamation contained in both or all the statements; 
the Presidential Member shall forward the statement so prepared certified by the Presidential Member to be approved by him, to the Industrial Registrar; and 
the statement so approved shall accompany each ballot paper as if it had been the sole statement delivered in accordance with paragraph (b) of the last preceding sub-section. 
The regulations may make provision for ensuring equitable presentation of argument for and against an amalgamation in periodical publications of the organization and of branches of the organization after a notice has been published in relation to a ballot in respect of the amalgamation under sub-section (lj of this section.". 
After paragraph (a) of sub-section (3.) of proposed section 158o, insert the following paragraph: "(aa) the Industrial Registrar shall consent to, and record, any change of the name of an organization or alteration of the rules of an organization that is involved in the scheme for the amalgamation and the change or alteration shall thereupon have effect;". 
I mention  to  the Committee that amendments Nos 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 7 are technical drafting amendments. At this stage I shall not weary the Committee with an explanation of the application of those amendments to the provisions before it. But I turn to amendment No 6 which amends clause 51, which relates to the amalgamation of organisations. The existing clause, which inserts section 158l and relates to the provision of a statement in opposition to an amalgamation to go with ballot papers, could be regarded as defective in that it would be possible for a sufficiently large group of persons supporting the amalgamation to prepare a phoney case against that amalgamation and on the basis that it was the largest group that would be the case that would be submitted. 
The amendment provides that where more than one case against amalgamation is received a presidential member shall consult with representatives of the groups putting cases in opposition to the amalgamation and prepare a statement which will take into account, as far as practicable, the main arguments in all the cases submitted and this shall be the case to go with the ballot papers. The amendment also proposes that the regulations may provide that the official union journals shall give equitable opportunity for the publication of views against the amalgamation. This is designed to ensure that one-sided publicity does not appear in the journals. 
I suggest that if the Ministers want to conduct conversation they do not conduct it at a pitch which is audible within the chamber. 
But let us have a look at the way this Government considers it is proper to deal with unions which commit an offence against section 119 of the Act. The Government says it is quite all right to impose a penalty of $500 a day upon a union, no matter how much the union tries to prevent a strike. Even though the strike is taken against the directions of the union's executive, that union - not wilful but, on the contrary, doing its best to try to prevent a strike - can be punished by a fine up to $500 a day or $1,000 where the bans clause treats the offence as a single offence. Yet here we have still in the Act this section, which does not refer to employers but which is the section which would have to be used. If the section is no longer of any use - I think that can be said of it - why has the Government not taken the opportunity that this debate now offers to take the section out of the Act altogether? It has not been used for a long time. In fact, with the section 119 already in the Act, whereby it is not necessary to show wilful disobedience, there is no need for it. I would like to hear the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  explain why the section was left there in the present form. If it is not to be altered, why was it not deleted from the Act altogether seeing that section 119 now does the job? I do not have anything more to say about it but the Opposition objects to a procedure which increases the penalties by up to 500 per cent in 20 separate sections, in one clause by way of a schedule attached to the back of the Bill. 
Question put: 
That  clause  54  be agreed  to. 
Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the 2 measures? There being no objection I will allow that course to be followed. 
-I have received a message from the Senate acquainting the House that  Senator Fitzgerald  has been discharged from the Joint Committee on Public Accounts. 
Order! I know that the hour is late, but I suggest that the Committee come to order. These amendments are complicated and we are trying to deal with them as speedily as possible. If honourable members will listen to what is being said it will help when the Committee makes its decision; no-one will say that he was not aware of what was happening. I suggest that honourable members listen to the honourable member for Fremantle. 
I suggest that the honourable member for Wills make his second speech. 
- Is the amendment seconded? 
I accept the point of order raised by the honourable member for Wills. I fail to see how the remarks concerning the nationalisation of banking can be relevant to the subject matter before the Chair, the motion that order of the day No. 1, Government Business, the grievance debate, be postponed, so that the House may continue with Government Business. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
The honourable member for Hunter will resume his seat. 
Order! Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
A Member who has spoken to a question may again be heard, - 
And 1 am grateful for that -  to explain himself in regard to some material part  of  his speech which has been misquoted or misunderstood . . . 
During the course of his remarks the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  implied that I had attacked the integrity of the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz).  I would in no way impugn the integrity or honesty of the honourable gentleman and if what I said was understood to mean that I had done so I would want it clearly understood that that was not what I said. What I said was that the way in which the Minister conducted the proceedings of the House was leading to its destruction as a representative institution and that was disgraceful. It was his incompetence, not his integrity which I attacked. 
Order! I remind the honourable member from Grayndler of the proverb which says that to err is human and to forgive divine. 
Order! I would suggest to the honourable member for Sturt, although he does not have a great deal of time left, that he is getting a little away from the subject matter under discussion. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Darling) (4.54)- The honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  said that he supported the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  when he said that he was sorry for the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson).  Some reference was made to there being no wool growers on this side of the House. This seems to me to be a pretty strange approach to the problem now under discussion. I know that most wool growers in my electorate would be happy if they had a parliamentary salary coming in on top of their annual income. I do not think members of this House are any closer to the wool grower because they happen to be in receipt of a parliamentary salary. I am sure that if the people in my electorate were receiving as much as a parliamentary salary we would not be half so worried as we are about the position of the wool industry at the present time. 
The Minister seemed to be very concerned to find some slight change over the past 2 years in the Labor Party's acquisition scheme, yet he claims that over this period there has been a big change in the position of the wool industry. It seems to me that this slight change does not necessarily indicate bad administration. If some slight adjustment is needed because of changed circumstances in the wool industry it would be good administration to make an adjustment according to the changed circumstances. In my opinion, in any wool plan, whether it be for marketing or for some other form of re-organisation, the main responsibility of the Government is to make farming economically viable. In the long term a farm can be considered to be economically viable only if it is capable of paying for the cost of materials used each year out of the proceeds received from the gross output of products. In addition there are annual operating costs, interest and debt repayments which must be made. Provision must be made also for depreciation of assets each year. This seems to me to be a logical approach to any form of business enterprise. 
This House has taken action already to make the wool grower economically viable. The House was told that prior to these measures being taken the combination of low prices, rising costs and - at least so far as my electorate was concerned - the severe drought had brought the wool industry to a position where it owed creditors over $ 1,200m, yet the net income of the wool industry was only about $3 20m annually and nearly one-third of this income was needed to meet interest payments on debts. In this situation it has been estimated that half of the 90,000 wool growers earn less than $2,000 a year after service of their debts. 
One of the worst hit areas would be in the Western Division of New South Wales. In my opinion this area should be given special consideration until it recovers from the severe drought period through which it had to go at a time when most wool growers were enjoying higher prices. There can be no doubt that the acquisition of the wool clip would be one way of cutting down expense in the handling and marketing of wool at a time when many growers cannot pay bills, moneylenders are reluctant to provide more finance and many local government authorities in wool areas are in serious difficulties. There is a real danger - this is not an imaginary danger - of the collapse of the whole country areas which depend solely on wool growers. It seems to me that it is the Government's responsibility to take some definite action on the preparation and marketing of wool. It is admitted that this House has considered already the economic viability of the wool grower and has provided direct financial aid, such as the emergency assistance for wool growers, supplementary payments and the S 10Om reconstruction programme. No doubt these things have played some part. But it is quite clear that there must be some fundamental changes in the thinking about the future. Perhaps a good deal of thinking has already been carried out, but the Parliament has a duty to realise the urgency of the situation, and it should translate this thinking into action. 
Just because wool prices have improved, as we have been told by the Minister, and seasonal conditions are better, we have no right to delay any action, because there can be no doubt that the long term problem of the wool industry still remains. Because of this the basic approach, I believe, must be aimed at modernising and improving the industry's marketing and handling arrangements. One of the keys to this modernisation process lies in the pre-sale objective measurement of wool and the sale of wool by sample. Of course this raises the question of what further developments we can expect to see in the method of selling wool in Australia. It is a tragedy that the wool industry has not had the same progressive outlook as the wheat industry has had in keeping pace with the technical developments of marketing. 
At a time when the whole wool industry is crying out for the acquisition of wool there can be no doubt that we should act. The different forms of acquisition should be considered. They include sale by auction, acquisition with sales at fixed prices, acquisition with sales at negotiated prices or even a combination of these. These means of acquisition should be only short term measures. Our aim should be eventually to sell the wool as we sell our wheat and sugar. The advantages of these schemes would be a more sensible regulation of the offerings, and there would be greater control over the standard of preparation and presentation of the wool offered. An acquisition scheme would also permit the introduction of cost saving techniques, which are not feasible under the present system. 
The Minister said that the Labor Party would not consult the wool industry about any scheme it wished to introduce. This is not true. The wool industry would be consulted. But it must be emphasised that the wool industry itself has a part to play. One thing that the wool industry must prove to the people of Australia at all levels is that it is willing to co-operate in any way possible not only to solve the immediate problems that it has to face but at the same time to consolidate the economic well being and the future of Australia. No one section of the community can expect continued assistance from the Government unless it is prepared to do this. Certainly we should know what the wool industry wishes in this matter. No-one should suggest, however, that our support should be automatic no matter how inefficient the industry is. The present rural crisis not only concerns the man on the land but has widespread sociological, community and centralisation problems. The crisis seriously impairs development and also consolidation of rural districts throughout Australia. 
The acquisition of the wool clip cannot be considered the only efficiency step to be taken. We must continue with other steps that will not only bring economic viability to the wool industry but will also consider the whole of Australia generally. It may be necessary to make some adjustment to the actual amount of wool growing to be encouraged. As the emphasis is transferred, the economic loading hitherto largely carried by the rural sector and allied industries must be transferred. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
Clause 1. (1.) This Act may be cited as the Income Tax Assessment Act 1972. (2.) The Income Tax Assessment Act 1936- 1971 is in this Act referred to as the Principal Act. (3.) The Principal Act, as amended by this Act, may be cited as the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936-1972. 
Clause 4. 
After section 46 of the Principal Act the following section is inserted: - 46a.  -  (1.) A reference in this section, other than a reference in paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of sub-section (4.), to a dividend shall be read as a reference to a dividend in relation to which this section applies, and a dividend is a dividend in relation to which this section applies if the dividend was paid after the thirty-first day of August, One thousand nine hundred and seventy-one, and the payment of the dividend arose out of, or was made in the course of, a transaction, operation, undertaking, scheme or arrangement that the Commissioner is satisfied was by way of dividend stripping. 
Clause 5. 
Section 103 of the Principal Act is amended - 
by adding at the end thereof the following sub-section:- "(4.) For the purposes of this Division, a company shall be taken to have been a listed company at all times during a year of income of another company if the firstmentioned company was, by virtue of paragraph (a) of sub-section (2.) of section one hundred and three a of this Act, a public company for the purposes of sub-section (1.) of that section in relation to the year of income of that company that corresponds with the first mentioned year of income. 
Clause 6.  (1.) Section 103a of the Principal Act is amended by omitting sub-section (4.) and inserting in its stead the following sub-sections: - (4.) Subject to sub-section (4d.) of this section, a company is, for the purposes of this section, a subsidiary of a public company in relation to the year of income if - 
at all times during the year of income all the shares in the firstmentioned company were beneficially owned by a company which, or companies each of which, is a public company for the purposes of subsection (1.) of this section in relation to the year of income of that company (in this sub-section referred to as ' the corresponding year of income') that corresponds with the firstmentioned year of income but which is not, or none of which is - 
a company to which paragraph (c) of sub-section (2.) of this section applies in relation to the corresponding year of income; or 
a subsidiary of a public company for the purposes of this section in rela tion to the corresponding year of income by reason of sub-section (4b.) of this section; 
Clause 12.  (1.) Subject to the next succeeding sub-section, the amendments made by paragraph (d) of section 3, by paragraphs (a) and (c) of section 5 and by section 6 of this Act apply to assessments in respect of income of the year of income that commenced on the first day of July. One thousand nine hundred and seventy-one and in respect of income of all subsequent years of income. (2.) Where- 
a company (in this sub-section referred to as "the spurious public company") would, but for the enactment of this Act, have been a subsidiary of a public company for the purposes of sub-section (1.) of section 103a of the Principal Act in relation to the year of income that commenced on the first day of July, One thousand nine hundred and seventy, by reason that, before or during that year of income, shares in the spurious public company were allotted to, or otherwise acquired by, one or more companies that would, but for the enactment of this Act, have been public companies for the purpose of sub-section (1.) of section 103a of the Principal Act in relation to that year of income; 
the allotment or acquisition of those shares in the spurious public company was effected for the purpose, or for purposes that included the purpose, of ensuring that any dividend that might be paid to the spurious public company by a company that was a private company for the purposes of Division 7 of Part III. of the Principal Act in relation to the year of income in which the dividend was paid would be treated for the purposes of that Act as having been paid to a company that was a public company for the purposes of sub-section (1.) of section 103a of that Act in relation to that year of income; 
shares in another company (in this subsection referred to as "the private company ") thatwas a private company for the purposes of Division 7 of Part III. of the Principal Act in relation to the year of income that commenced on the first day of July, One thousand nine hundred and seventy, were allotted to, or otherwise acquired by, the spurious public company for the purpose of enabling the private company to pay a dividend in respect of those shares; and 
either the allotment or acquisition referred to in paragraph (a) of this sub-section of shares in the spurious public company or the allotment or acquisition referred to in the last preceding paragraph of shares in the private company took place after the twenty-eighth day of April, One thousand nine hundred and seventy-one, and before the first day of the year of income of the spurious public company that commenced on the first day of July, One thousand nine hundred and seventy-one, the amendments made by paragraphs (a) and (c)  if  section 5, and by section 6, of this Act apply to any assessment in respect of income of the spurious public company of the year of income that commenced on the first day of July, One thousand nine hundred and seventy. (3.) Subject to the next two succeeding subsections, where, if the period that is the relevant period in relation to a company were a year of income, the company would be a subsidiary of a public company for the purposes of section 103a of the Principal Act as amended by this Act in relation to that year of income by virtue of sub-section (4.) or sub-section (4b.) of that section, that company shall be deemed to be a subsidiary of a public company for the purposes of that section in relation to the year of income that commenced on the first day of July, One thousand nine hundred and seventy-one, by virtue of that sub-section. (4.) The last preceding sub-section does not affect the operation of sub-sections (4d.) and (4b.) of section 103a of the Principal Act as amended by this Act but, in the application, in relation to the year of income that commenced on the first day of July, One thousand nine hundred and seventy-one, of those sub-sections in respect of a company to which the last preceding subsection applies, a reference in those sub-sections to the year of income shall be read as a reference to the period that is the relevant period in relation to that company. (5.) Sub-section (3.) of this section does not apply in relation to a company to which paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of sub-section (2.) of this section apply if the private company referred to in paragraph (c) of sub-section (2.) of this section paid a dividend to the firstmentioned company after the commencement of the year of income of the firstmentioned company that commenced on the first day of July, One thousand nine hundred and seventy-one, but before the commencement of the period that is the relevant period in relation to the firstmentioned company. (6.) For the purposes of this section but subject to the next succeeding sub-section, the relevant period, in relation to a company, is the period commencing at the expiration of one month after the commencement of this Act and ending at the expiration of the year of income of the company that ends on the thirtieth day of June, One thousand nine hundred and seventy-two. (7.) For the purposes of this section, the relevant period, in relation to a company, shall be deemed to include any period (in this sub-section referred to as "the earlier period") during the year of income that ends on the thirtieth day of June, One thousand nine hundred and seventy-two, that immediately preceded the period (in this sub- section referred to as " the later period ") that is the relevant period in relation to that company by virtue of the last preceding sub-section, where, if the earlier period and the later period together constituted a year of income, the company would be a subsidiary of a public company for the purposes of section 103a of the Principal Act as amended by this Act in relation to that year of income by virtue of sub-section (4.) or sub-section (4b.) of that section. (8.) The amendments made by paragraph (b) of section 5, and by section 7, of this Act apply in relation to dividends paid after the ninth day of December, One thousand nine hundred and seventy-one. 
I move: 
In clause 1, omit the clause, insert the following clause: - " 1. - (1.) This Act may be cited as the Income Tax Assessment Act (No. 3) 1972. " (2.) The Income Tax Assessment Act 1936- 1971, as amended by the Income Tax Assessment Act 1972t and by the Income Tax Assessment Act (No. 2) 1972, is in this Act referred to as the Principal Act. " (3.) Section 1 of the Income Tax Assessment Act (No. 2) 1972 is amended by omitting subsection (3.). " (4.) The Principal Act, as amended by this Act, may be cited as the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936-1972.". 
In clause 4, in sub-section (1.) of proposed section 46a, before ' paragraph (a) ', insert ' subsection (1a. ) or sub-section (1b.), or'. 
In clause 4, after sub-section (1.) of proposed section 46a, insert the following subsections: - " ' (1a.) A dividend paid in respect of shares in a company shall not be taken to be a dividend in relation to which this section applies unless the shareholder acquired (whether alone or jointly with another person or other persons) those shares or other shares in that company (in this section referred to as "the relevant shares") as trading stock or in such circumstances that any profit that would arise from a disposal of the shares would, in whole or in part, be included in the assessable income of the shareholder or any loss that would arise from a disposal of the shares would, in whole or in part, be allowable as a deduction to the shareholder. " ' (1b.) In considering whether the payment of a dividend by a company arose out of, or was made in the course of, a transaction, operation, undertaking, scheme or arrangement by way of dividend stripping, the Commissioner shall take into consideration - 
whether the effect of the payment of the dividend by the company to the shareholder, or the effect of that payment and of the payments of any other dividends that have been or are likely to be made by the company to the shareholder, has been, or would be, to reimburse the shareholder wholly or substantially for the amount or amounts paid by him in respect of the acquisition of the relevant shares; 
whether the value of the relevant shares - 
in the case of shares held by the shareholder at the end of the year of income at that time; 
in the case of shares disposed of by the shareholder during the year of income immediately before the disposal; or 
in the case where a distribution was made to the shareholder during the year of income by a liquidator in the course of winding up (he company - immediately after the distribution was made, was substantially less than the value of those shares at the time when they were acquired by the shareholder and, if so, whether the reduction in value was wholly or mainly attributable to the payment of a dividend to the shareholder by the company; 
whether the right to receive dividends in respect of the relevant shares is, by reason of any provision in the constituent document of the company or of any agreement, arrangement or understanding (whether formal or informal, whether express or implied and whether or not enforceable by legal proceedings), limited as to the total of the amounts that may be paid as dividends in respect of the shares or as to -the source of the profits ' from which, or the period during which, dividends may be paid in respect of the shares; and 
any other relevant matters.". 
In clause 5, omit proposed sub-section (4.), insert the following sub-section: - " ' (4.) For the purposes of this Division, a company shall be taken to have been a listed company during a period that was included in a year of income of another company (in this subsection referred to as " the relevant year of income") where - 
if the period was included in the year of income of the first-mentioned company (in this sub-section referred to as " the corresponding year of income ") that corresponded with the relevant year of income - the first-mentioned company was, by virtue of paragraph (a) of sub-section (2.) of section one hundred and three  a  of this Act, a public company for the purposes of sub-section (1.) of that section in relation to the corresponding year of income; or 
if the period was included in the year of income of the first-mentioned company that immediately preceded or immediately followed the corresponding year of income - the first-mentioned company was, by virtue of paragraph (a) of sub-section (2.) of section one hundred and three  a  of this Act, a public company for the purposes of sub-section (1.) of that section in relation to that preceding or following year of income, as the case may be.". 
In clause 6, after paragraph (a) of proposed sub-section (4.), insert the following paragraph: - " (aa) the corresponding year of income, or each of the corresponding years of income, referred to in the last preceding paragraph ended on the same day as the year of income first-mentioned in that paragraph;". 
In clause 12, omit sub-clauses (2.) to (8.), inclusive, insert the following sub-clauses: - "(2.) Where- 
a company (in this sub-section referred to as 1 the spurious public company ') would, but for the enactment of this Act, have been a subsidiary of a public company for the purposes of sub-section (1.) of section 103a of the Principal Act in relation to the year of income that commenced on the first day of July, One thousand nine hundred and seventy, by reason that, before or during that year of income, shares in the spurious public company were allotted to, or otherwise acquired by, one or more companies that would, but for the enactment of this Act, have been a public company or public companies for the purposes of sub-section (1.) of section 103a of the Principal Act in relation to that year of income; 
the allotment or acquisition of those shares in the spurious public company was effected for the purpose, or for purposes that included the purpose, of ensuring that any dividend that might be paid to the spurious public company by another company would be treated for the purposes of the Principal Act as having been paid to a company that was a public company for the purposes of sub-section (1.) of section 103a of that Act in relation to the year of income of that last-mentioned company during which the dividend was received; 
shares in another company were allotted to, or otherwise acquired by, the spurious public company for the purpose of enabling the other company to pay a dividend in respect of those shares and the other company was a private company for the purposes of Division 7 of Part III. of the Principal Act in relation to - 
a year of income of the other company in relation to which the period that is the prescribed period .within the meaning of that. Division is, in whole or in part, included in the year of income of the spurious public company that commenced on the first day of July, One thousand nine hundred and seventy; or 
a year of income of the other company during which a dividend to which sub-section (2.). of section one hundred and five  a  of the Principal Act applies was paid by that company to the spurious public company, being a dividend that was paid during the year of income of the spurious public company, that commenced. on the first day of July, One thousand nine hundred and seventy; and 
either the allotment or acquisition referred to in paragraph (a) of this sub-section of shares in the spurious public company or the allotment or acquisition referred to in the last preceding paragraph of shares in the other company referred to in that paragraph took place after the twenty-eighth day of April, One thousand nino hundred and seventy-one, and before the first day of the year of income of the spurious public company that commenced on the first day of July, One thousand nine hundred and seventy-one, the amendments made by paragraphs (a) and (c) of section 5, and by section 6, of this Act apply to any assessment in respect of income of the spurious public company of the year of income that commenced on the first day of My, One thousand nine hundred and seventy. " (3.) Subject to the next two succeeding sub-sections, where - 
a period is declared by this section to be the relevant period in relation to a company in relation to a year of income; and 
if that period were a year of income, the company would be a subsidiary of a public company for the purposes of section 103a of the Principal Act as amended by this Act in relation to that period by virtue of sub-section (4.) or sub-section (4b.) of that section, the company shall be deemed to be, by virtue of that sub-section, a subsidiary of a public company for the purposes of that section in relation to the year of income referred to in paragraph (a) of this sub-section. " (4.) The last preceding sub-section does not affect the operation of sub-sections (4d.) and (4b.) of section 103a of the Principal Act as amended by this Act but, in the application of those sub-sections in relation to  a  company in relation to  a  year of income of the company to which the last preceding sub-section applies,  a  reference in those sub-sections to a year of income shall be read as  a  reference to the period that is declared to be the relevant period in relation te the company in relation to that year of income. " (5.) Sob-section (3.) of this section does not apply in relation to a company (being a company to which paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of subsection (2.) of this section apply) in relation to  a  year of income if the other company referred to in paragraph (c) of sub-section (2.) of this section paid a dividend to the first-mentioned company after the twenty-eighth day of April, One thousand nine hundred and seventy-one, and after the commencement of that year of income but before the commencement of the period that is the relevant period in relation to the firstmentioned company in relation to that year of income. " (6.) For the purposes of this section but subject to sub-section (8.) of this section, whichever of the following periods is applicable in relation to a company is declared to be the relevant period in relation to the company in relation to the year of income of the company that commenced on the first day of July, One thousand nine hundred and seventy-one i - 
if the day immediately following the expiration of one month after the commencement of this Act is included in that year of income of the company - the period commencing on that immediately following day and ending at the expiration of that year of income; or 
if the day immediately following the expiration of one month after the commencement of this Act is included in the year of income of the company that commences on the first day of July, One thousand nine hundred and seventytwothe period commencing on that immediately following day and ending on the first day of December, One thousand nine hundred and seventy-two. " (7.) If the day immediately following the expiration of one month after the commencement of this Act is included in the year of income of a company that commences on the first day of July, One thousand nine hundred and seventy-two, then, for the purposes of this section but subject to the next succeeding sub-section, the period commencing on that immediately following day and ending on the last day of that year of income is declared to be the relevant period in relation to the company in relation to that year of income. " (8.) For the purposes of this section, the relevant period, in relation to a company in relation to a year of income, shall be deemed to include any period (in this sub-section referred to as ' the earlier period ') that commenced not earlier than the first day of that year of income and immediately preceded the period (in this subsection referred to as ' the later period ') that is the relevant period in relation to the company in relation to that year of income by virtue of subsection (6.) or sub-section (7.), as the case may be, of this section, where, if the earlier period and the later period taken together constituted a year of income, the company would be a subsidiary of a public company for the purposes of section 103a of the Principal Act as amended by this Act in relation to those periods as so taken together by virtue of sub-section (4.) or sub-section (4b.) of that section. " (9.) The amendments made by paragraph (b) of section 5, and by section 7, of this Act apply in relation to dividends paid after the ninth day of December, One thousand nine hundred and seventy-one.". 
With the concurrence of the Committee I will speak to each amendment now. All of the amendments are of a drafting kind. They do not change the intended effects of the Bill. A memorandum explaining technical aspects of each of them has been circulated to honourable members. In these circumstances I think I need now only briefly outline the broad purpose and effect of each. The amendment of clause 1 merely catches up with events. Other subsequent income tax measures have made it necessary to  retitle  the Act which this Bill will enact. 
The amendment to clause 4 results from the Government's consideration of representations about the measures in the Bill concerned with dividend stripping. The Government has decided that it would be desirable for the Bill to contain reference to characteristics of dividend stripping as that term is commonly understood rather than let the term stand alone. In the form in which it was introduced the Bill limits  the tax rebate on inter-company dividends paid under an arrangement which the Commissioner of Taxation is satisfied is by way of dividend stripping. It is proposed by the amendment to provide specifically, in effect, that the limitation can apply only where the company receiving the dividend is entitled to the twin benefits - a rebate on the dividends and a deduction for the loss on the shares resulting from the declaration of the dividends - which are an incentive for a company to join in a dividend stripping operation. In addition, the amendment directs the Commissioner, in forming his opinion as to whether a dividend is received in the course of a dividend stripping operation, to consider matters which are common to this kind of operation - principally, an effective reimbursement of the purchase price of the relevant shares through the receipt of the dividend and a diminution in the value of the shares by reason of the declaration of the dividend. 
The remainder of the amendments - those proposed to clauses 5, 6 and 12 of the Bill - relate to the proposed new tests to be satisfied for a company to be treated as a subsidiary of a public company for tax purposes. The technical amendments to clauses 5 and 6 are complementary and refer to the extraordinary case of parent and subsidiary companies whose corresponding years of income end on different dates. The purpose is to ensure that basic provisions of the Bill apply in the same manner in these cases as in the conventional case of identical balancing dates. I think the amendments to clause 12 - which deals with transitional problems - can be taken together. The first of the amendments relates to the artificial public company which was set up after 28th April 1971, the date of announcement of the proposed changes in the law. It will eliminate an apparent technical weakness in the present Bill and ensure that, as announced, no company set up after that date which, under the old law, would artifically have qualified as public, can be a public company for the income year 1970-71, unless it meets the new tests. 
The Bill provides a period of grace for companies to comply with the new tests for the income year 1971-72, most of which has, of course, already elapsed. However, because of the irregular accounting periods of some companies, it would be the equivalent for them - as compared with what is being provided by way of a period of grace for companies with conventional balancing dates - to extend the period of grace into the income year 1972-73. The amendments proposed to clause 12 make the drafting changes needed to do this. 
Finally, the amendments to clause 12 will ensure that, if private company dividends were received by an artificial subsidiary on or before 28th April 1971, the recipient company will not, for this reason, be denied a period of grace for compliance with the new tests. As the Bill is at present drafted, the receipt of dividends in these circumstances could, for technical reasons, unintentionally deny a period of grace to some companies with irregular accounting periods. I commend the amendments to the Committee. 
I preface my question, which I direct to the Minister for Trade and Industry, by saying that I am sure the Minister is aware of statements from some quarters that the value of primary industry is not as important to the economy of Australia now as it was some years ago. As these statements tend to undermine confidence in the industry, will the Minister inform mc and the House of the factual position. 
Order! The honourable member for Sturt will cease interjecting. 
The Leader of the Oppostion does not understand the position, for a moment ago he said: 'Look, it is only a matter of a day or two and something is going to happen that will be effective in 10 years time'. That is arrant nonsense and I am surprised that a man who pretends to be a lawyer, who should have read the Bill - and I doubt whether he has - has not understood what is involved in the whole matter. I think that if the Leader of the Opposition had considered it for a moment, he would not have spoken as he did, for what he said was not only a bad argument but also was entirely at variance with the facts. I know that we have to get the Bill through. I know that it has to go to the Senate. ThereforeI move: 
That the question be now put: 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Original question put: 
That the clause be postponed  (Mr  Whitlam's amendment). 
Order! Does the Leader of the Opposition claim to have been misrepresented. 
Order! There is no substance in the point of order. There is no relationship between what the Minister has said and the point of order raised. I would think that the honourable member for Sturt has been a member of this House long enough to recognise that fact. I have warned the honourable member for Sturt previously about taking irrelevant points of order. 
Over the past 22 years the activities and policies of both Genera] Motors and the Federal Government have been responsible for a dramatic expansion in the industrial output of Australia, with an accompanying increase in domestic production, export income and employment opportunities. The Federal Government, by various incentives and policies, has contributed tremendously to the comparatively dramatic improvement in Australia's industrial capacity and has consistently maintained a Very high level of employment compared with the levels in other major industrial nations. Statistics relating to General Motors show that this company has achieved a magnificent performance for Australia as well as for General Motors itself. General Motors is too often the target of attack by members of the Opposition. 
I would like to quote some figures to illustrate the point that I have just made. In t&gt;he last 20 years General Motors has produced 2,527,000 units for both the domestic and export market. A few years ago it was exporting none at all. Last year it exported 184,310 units. The expenditure by the company on the purchase of land, buildings and equipment in Australia since 1948 - which is only 24 years - shows the staggering figure of $324,219,000. The amount paid by General Motors to suppliers for materials, components and services^ - thereby assisting the employment of Australians and other associated developments - shows the amazing figure of $3,3 10m. In 1950 General Motors had only 10,000 employees in Australia. Last year it employed 25,500 people. The company's total payroll in 1950 was $12.7m, last year it was $ 123.1m. Since 1948 - in the last 24 years - General Motors has had a total payroll in Australia of $1,220,471,000, and the revenue from its exports has totalled $260m over the past 20 years. Whilst this company certainly is owned by overseas capital, it has played a major part in the development of the Australian economy since the company's establishment and since its real development began in 1950 when this coalition Government was elected to represent the people of Australia. 
In the particular case we are considering, General Motors has given no indication that, for example, Government decisions in the overseas trade sphere have been responsible for the announcement made by the company. If imports were the cause of the trouble, for example, then long established procedures are available to Australian industry, and these procedures have proved effective and valuable in the past in developing local industries such as the motor vehicle industry in which General Motors is engaged, and contributing to their ability to expand production and provide employment and to contribute in  a  very significant fashion to Australia's earnings of foreign exchange. 
The economy of Australia and the employment situation in Australia are inseparably tied together. The Australian economy is basically sound and strong, and of course the Government is interested in doing all it can to continue to maintain and improve this position. In this direction the Government recently has taken significant action to stimulate economic activity and thereby expand demand for industrial products. These actions include the lowering of interest rates, providing additional funds for the States, restoring the investment allowance for manufacturers, reducing personal income taxation and increasing welfare payments. These measures are starting to take effect and they will contribute towards improving the level of economic activity. 
The level of economic activity is being kept under very close watch by the Government. The Government has shown it is prepared to take action to stimulate the economy when such action is warranted. The manufacturing industries of this country can look forward to continued support from this Government. Their importance to Australia, to the States and to the individual Australian is fully comprehended by the Government. The Government and the Department of Trade and Industry - and I speak today not only in the capacity of Minister for Repatriation but also as the Minister assisting I he Minister for Trade and Industry - will keep the whole of the manufacturing activity in Australia under keen and active supervision. We will do this with a spirit of co-operation. 
I want to repeat to the House, and to the people of Australia, that it is a genuine concern of this Government that no-one should lose job opportunities. Of course we think it is unfortunate that this commercial decision has had to be announced by General Motors-Holden's. I repeat the Government's concern in this matter. I also repeat the pledge that the Government will do everything within its power to maintain an expanding industrial ingredient in the economy and to continue its record of encouraging the development and profitability of Australian industries. The Government will continue to play its part in this direction, working in partnership with the Australian people, in order continually to strengthen the industrial base of Australia, with the consequent maintenance of employment opportunities and the very high percentage of employment which we have maintained over a very long period of time. Our employment record compares favourably with that of other countries. 
I support this legislation but with certain reservations. I feel that the amendment moved by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson),  while it refers to certain factors and emphasises others, does not have a great deal of relevance to this legislation. There is a need for a national plan, a full use of Australia's forestry resources and the carrying out of the necessary conservation work. In my opinion this is a completely different subject from the one now under discussion and does not have any relevance to this legislation. This is important legislation because it covers so many facets of the Australian economy. It covers our overseas balance of payments. It covers the situation as far as rural employment is concerned. It can make a contribution towards decentralisation, a subject about which we have been talking for a long period. I confess that I agree with certain of the criticisms that were made by the honourable member for Dawson in his opening remarks. He asked: Why is this legislation coming before this Parliament only at this stage?' Perhaps this explains some of the complexities and some of the problems related to this factor in Commonwealth and State agreements. I said at the outset that I support this legislation. I do so because this is an agreement, and as a result of that agreement certain factors have been followed and certain action has been taken by the various State forestry departments. As to the agreement and the discussions between New South Wales and the Commonwealth, I feel that there have been some misunderstandings on both sides. I accept what the Minister said in his second reading speech about the reasons for it, the assistance given by the Commonwealth, and the terms of the agreement. I agree with him that the terms are indeed favourable. After all, the funds which are repayable over 25 years are free of interest for the first 10 years after the date of each advance. Repayments are geared to the cash-flow pattern of a forestry investment, where there is no financial return until the first thinnings. These, too, commence 10 years after each advance. It is estimated that during the second 5-year programme the Commonwealth will make available some $21m to cover the proportion of State Government planting that it has agreed to finance up till June 1976. These loan funds will be provided on the same generous terms and conditions as the first programme. This contribution by the Commonwealth will be of tremendous assistance to the States. 
I accept also that in regard to assistance given to achieve the plantings, New South Wales has received favourable treatment. For example, in respect of the total planting of 18,510 acres the area financed by the Commonwealth is 9,730 acres, and the percentage of total plantings by New South Wales financed by the Commonwealth is 52.57 per cent. As I said earlier in my remarks, I believe there has been a degree of misunderstanding between the Commonwealth and the State in regard to this. However, I should like to emphasise that due to this agreement it has not been possible to give effect to certain of the plans prepared by the Forestry Commission. lt has been said that the Commonwealth has been generous in giving this form of assistance to the States. I do not deny that. 
However, members will find in this legislation that the annual planting in New South Wales in 1972, 1973, 1974, 1975 and 1976 is to be 18,510 acres. In other words, there is to be no basic increase in acreage. This is where I would be slightly critical of the Commonwealth Government. On 10th May 1967 the Minister for National Development, who was then the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn),  said in his second reading speech on the Bill to give effect to the first 5-year agreement: 
Following my statement to the House on 9th March 1966, Australian forestry, including this proposed programme, was thoroughly debated both in this House and in the Senate for the first time since Federation. The discussion was conducted at a particularly high plane. There was general support for the programme. The main critical comments made were that the proposed terms were not generous enough. . . . 
I suppose that is understandable, because I should imagine that the terms of an agreement would never be generous enough lor those concerned. However, the Minister went on to say:   the Commonwealth had failed to take  a  more active part in resource development in Australian forestry at an earlier stage. I should point out that in effect, the remission of interest for 10 years is equivalent to  a  grant to the States of about 38 per cent of final costs. Honourable members will be aware that when the Constitution was adopted control of Crown lands in the States remained with the States. These State Crown lands include the greater part of Australian forest land of good quality. Apart from forests in Commonwealth Territories, the direct control of Australian forests is a State matter. 
The Minister said further: 
As can be seen from the schedule attached to the proposed agreement- 
I am now speaking of the first 5-year agreement: 
New South Wales plantings are expected to increase to 19,600 acres in the last year of this S-year programme from the base year acreage of 8,100. 
Then the Minister went on to mention the other States. I believe that this is the point on which there has been misunderstanding between the State and Federal governments, and has led to difficulty over not being able to proceed with certain areas set aside by the State Government. 
At this point in the Minister's speech to which I have referred, reference is made to an area of 19,600 acres. However, in each of the next 5 years there is to be a planting of only 18,510 acres. As I understand it, this is the point about which there is some confusion and will have some adverse effect in the form of reduced work opportunities. What I am concerned about in this respect is that in some areas plans have been prepared by the local people. I appreciate that the areas chosen for planting are the responsibility of the State Government, but my concern is for the local people. In some areas the Forestry Commission has cleared the ground and has machinery ready to go ahead with the job. If there is any lengthy delay this machinery will be transferred to another site. As a result, the ground that has now been prepared will return to its former state and the planting programme for the area will be delayed, perhaps indefinitely. People are willing to accept some delay and some alteration to the programme, but they want to know how soon the plantings will be made in their districts. It is not unreasonable for them to have this desire. 
As 1 said earlier, this is one of the ways in which we can contribute to rural employment. The Government is making some money available to assist unemployment in certain areas. One of the ways we can help is by ensuring continuity of purpose, which will benefit the economy of the nation. At one stage certain proposals were placed before the Australian Forestry Council. The Commonwealth endorsed the Council's proposals that Australia should increase the rate of softwood planting from 40,000 acres a year to 75,000 acres a year for the next 35 years. Over the first 5-year period plantings by private enterprise averaged about 18.000 acres instead of 10,000 acres as suggested by the Council. I think that this factor has also contributed to the reduction in planting. I appreciate that other factors have adversely affected the softwood programme but I do not believe that any good will come from an argument between the Commonwealth and the State over who was to blame for what was done or not done. I hope that the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  and the State Ministers will further consider these circumstances in the very near future 
There will need to be further discussions about planting. I understand that there will need to be further discussions at an early date if the plan is to be continued for a further 5 years or some other period into the future. I hope that at further discussions these matters will be seriously considered so that there may be a continuity of planting. I think that the State has to accept responsibility in this area as well. There should be a continuity of planting so that advantages may flow not only to particular areas but to the Commonwealth as a whole. I have had discussions with the Leader of my own Party, the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony),  and the Minister for National Development about this matter. I have spoken also to my State colleagues and to the responsible Minister in the State Government,  Mr Fife.  I understand that there will be further discussions so that this programme, which is of great importance to us, may be able to operate to the advantage of our economy and particularly the rural areas, and to assist the progress of Australia as a whole. I promised the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  that I would conclude in time to allow him to conclude his speech before the suspension of the sitting for dinner. I do not want to labour the point. I have made the points I feel I should make, and I support the legislation. 
I think that the points taken by honourable members this evening are completely irrelevant to your action,  Mr Speaker,  and the reasons for it. I think, quite frankly, that the point has been lost by honourable members who have raised certain points. The major factor is that you are responsible in this House for deciding whether letters shall be distributed as a matter of privilege by members of the staff. If these letters were sent back and were delivered by post against the law certain action could be taken. I think the Parliament would be extending a parliamentary privilege if material was just handed in and delivered by members of the staff. I think the points raised in regard to censorship and other matters are irrelevant in this instance. If members wish to send material out by the attendants those members accept that responsibility. In this case the material was submitted for distribution by somebody outside the Parliament. I for one support completely and absolutely what you did,  Mr Speaker.  I think your action was the correct one and I think it will be supported by most right-minded thinking people not only in this House but in the country. 
Order! Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
Order! The question is that the question be now put. 
Order! I appreciate that the honourable member has to give the reasons for moving the amendment which seeks to resume the sittings of the Parliament on a date prior to that suggested in the motion moved by the Leader of the House. I have allowed the honourable member to mention certain points which need to be mentioned to make the amendment relevant, but I ask the honourable member not to debate, for example, the reasons behind the Randall report, otherwise this could develop into a debate on the substance of the wool industry. 
For that reason it is of paramount importance that this Parliament be recalled at some time prior to 30th June to consider this most important question and if necessary, if the Government holds this opinion, to consider introducing legislation to do one of 2 things, either to completely nullify the wool deficiency payments scheme or to extend the period for payments. The Government could also consider introducing new legislation with respect to wool marketing in Australia. It is for those reasons that I have moved the amendment which seeks to have the House recalled at some date to be fixed prior to 30th June. 
Is the amendment seconded? 
Order! The Minister's time has expired. 
Order! The honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory will withdraw that remark. 
In accordance with practice, the amending ordinance was referred to the Australian Capital Advisory Council on 13th June, that is, about 5 weeks before the removal of the embassy. The member for the Australian Capital Territory was given a copy of the Ordinance on 1st June and I am told that he lost it but subsequently obtained another. The Ordinance was made in the normal way but before it became law a senior officer of the Australian Capital Territory Police Force visited the campers on 17th July. They were informed that the law would be introduced shortly and that it would require them to remove themselves and their tents from the lawns. The campers were provided with a copy of the proposed Ordinance and an explantion of its effect. The officer concerned gained the clear impression that they would comply with the law when it was introduced. 
Indeed, on 18th July in the 'Canberra News', it was reported: 
Staff at the Aboriginal 'Embassy' say that they will co-operate with the Australian Capital Territory police and move their camp on the lawns opposite Parliament House without violence. 
In the same report the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory was reported as saying that it was imperative in the interests of decency that no action be taken against the embassy on the lawns of Parliament House until the Parliament was in session. Perhaps this was the catalyst which caused the change of attitude. Indeed, in the 'Canberra News' a camp spokesman,  Mr Ambrose  Brown, said that they would not resist the police and members would maintain operations from an office in Canberra. 
The ordinance was gazetted on 20th July 1972 and was publicly available at 10.30 a.m. on that date. Shortly after, the ACT police informed the campers that the law had been made and requested the campers to remove their tents from the lawns. It was at this point that there was a dramatic change of attitude. For the first time, the campers indicated to the police that they would not move voluntarily. It is significant that, whereas normally the so-called 'embassy' has been staffed by only one or two persons, on the date on which the Ordinance was gazetted the police were confronted by forty or more people in an organised demonstration. The police requested the demonstrators, comprising part Aborigines and Europeans, to permit them to remove the remaining tent. They were warned that if they did not do so they would be obstructing the police in the execution of their duty. The demonstrators made it clear that they had no intention of moving, and accordingly the police removed the tent. The Police Commis- sioner informed me that the resistance by the demonstrators was more excessive than at any previous demonstration in the ACT. 
In an effort to avoid further confrontation and violence, officers of my Department, including the Police Commissioner, met with representatives of the demonstrators on Sunday morning, 23rd July. An offer was made to assist the accommodation problems of those campers involved in legal proceedings to test the validity of the Ordinance. This offer was not taken up. While these discussions were in progress it was learned that a further demonstration had already commenced and that a body of demonstrators was marching from the Australian National University to Parliament House. On their arrival at Parliament House the demonstrators attempted to erect a tent in the area previously occupied by the campers. The police advised them that any attempt to re-erect the tent would be in contravention of the existing law. This advice was ignored and they elected the tent. The police dismantled the tent after the demonstrators had ignored the repeated police requests. 
We then move on to a further demonstration on 30th July. It was reported that plans were being made for a much larger demonstration on 30th July. Arrangements were made for busloads of demonstrators to converge on Canberra from many parts of Australia. Militant left wing unions, including the New South Wales branch of the Builders Labourers Union were planning to become involved. Indeed, it was reported that the so-called 'front line troops' of the Builders Labourers Union - thugs and bikies - were also planning to participate, lt was against this background that on 26th July I met with representatives of the demonstrators and discussed with them a more dignified permanent presence in the national capital for some truly representative Aboriginal group. (Extension of time granted.) I would like to thank the honourable member for Fremantle for his courtesy in moving for an extension of time. However, I made it clear that, in the terms of the law, the tents could not be erected outside Parliament House on unleased land in the city area. Further conferences took place on 28th July between officers of my Department and representatives of the demonstrators then in Canberra. 
An endeavour was made to persuade the demonstrators to call off the movement of interstate professional demonstrators to Canberra. It was agreed that the Commonwealth would bring 9 leaders nominated by the Aborigines to Canberra to discuss the matter with the Ministers. 
On 29th July my colleagues, the Minister for Environment, Aborigines and the Arts  (Mr Howson)  and the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the  Chairman  of the Council for Aboriginal Affairs  (Dr Coombs)  and officers of my Department met with Aboriginal leaders in Canberra. The discussions lasted 2 hours. While the discussions were taking place the demonstrators were converging on Canberra from a number of centres throughout Australia. For the record, I am pleased to say that, in spite of attempts by radical groups to pressure Aborigines from my own home town of Moree, they refused to be associated with the activities of those who were hell-bent on creating further violence outside Parliament House. 
On Sunday, 30th July, there was a large demonstration outside Parliament House involving 2,000 demonstrators. Every effort was made to avoid serious risk of violence and injury, and although the police were in strength on this occasion they made no effort to interfere with or to prevent what was recognised as the temporary erection of a tent on the lawns as a symbolic gesture. At the invitation and with the cooperation of the demonstrators the tent was removed in the afternoon. Although all the seeds of violence were present on that Sunday afternoon, the police behaved in an exemplary fashion while under considerable pressure. The majority of the Aboriginal leaders sought to restrain, and in fact succeeded in restraining, the more radical elements. Indeed, I would like to quote from a letter I have received from the Australian Capita] Territory Council of Civil Liberties. The Secretary wrote: 
 Under the Standing Orders the Minister should ask for leave. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Order! The Minister for Shipping and Transport will cease interjecting. 
The Budget is built upon a totally inadequate and, I believe, totally mistaken concept of the relations between the national government and the citizens of Australia. I make 2 fundamental propositions: This Budget narrows the role of the national government and it narrows the real meaning of being an Australian citizen in 1972. The Treasurer said that his standard of reference was what he called the typical family man. He had nothing to say, one notes, about the typical family woman. But how narrow and constricting is the Treasurer's concept. The Australian citizen is not merely a wage-earner who pays income tax to the Federal Government. He is not just a taxpayer. He is a citizen who must buy land, build a house or rent one, raise a family, keep them and himself in health, travel to work, pay State charges, pay municipal charges, pay insurance charges. If the community, if governments by doing nothing or by deliberate action raise the cost of the other charges he must bear, then he is being taxed as surely and deliberately as he would be if the income tax were increased. Alternatively, if government action or investment can save the individual citizen money, it is as effective a means of increasing his standard of living and his freedom of choice as a reduction of taxes or an increase in wages would be. 
And my other proposition is this: Any function of our society will grow in strength, quality and equality to the extent that the Commonwealth involves itself. But if Commonwealth involvement is limited just to providing cash, then there is no true national commitment at all to promoting the quality and equality of that community service. It is not enough for the national government to help in paying fees for doctors, for hospitals or for schools. That does nothing to reduce costs or to improve equality. The national government must involve itself in planning the service, and in the services themselves, not merely the costs. 
These are the 2 great tests, and by these tests this Budget fails. The Treasurer has set himself the narrowest possible target - $2 or so to the so-called typical man. The Australian whose real needs and aims, his hopes for himself and his children, are to be met in this way in 1972 not only is not typical; he is non-existent. The typical Australian today is, I profoundly believe, a man or woman who wants to believe that he or she lives in a society which is committed to achieving justice and equity and opportunity for all, not just for himself and his immediate family but for all his fellow citizens, and who believes that he can and does contribute to achieving such a society. 
This is my judgment of the typical Australian, and I am confident that my judgment is not misplaced. But the typical Australian cannot believe he is living in a society committed to justice and equal opportunity when he sees his national government content to have 100,000 and more of his fellow-citizens unemployed, when he sees one million of his fellow citizens living near or below the poverty line, when he sees the operation of one law for wage earners and another for price fixers, when he sees men of great wealth able to avoid, through tax dodges, paying millions of dollars, when he sees the Aboriginal community suffering from the world's highest infant mortality rate, when he sees millions of dollars spent on a handful of the wealthiest schools in Australia while most State and parish schools are struggling to meet basic standards, when he sees a health system which costs the richest man scarcely half as much as the average man has to pay. In modern Australia the typical Australian looks to his governments to redress these injustices, not least because he knows that governments themselves have done so much to create them. And in modern Australia the government he increasingly looks to for leadership and justice is the national government. From that national government he is looking for leadership. The Budget could provide an opportunity for leadership, for the setting of national goals. This most impermanent and unstable document this year provides nothing of the sort. 
And if the typical Australian is to be our measure, then this Budget ignores completely the most typical characteristic of the vast majority of Australians. And that is that they live in cities - not just the State capitals, but cities and centres throughout our continent. I find it unbelievable that in 1972, in a nation which pretends to be advanced, the national Government can produce a national Budget which is silent on cities - silent on the basic problems of 85 per cent of its citizens and the places where they have to live. A national government which has nothing to say about cities has nothing of real or enduring importance to say to the nation at all. 
Where was the voice of the Country Party when this Budget was being framed? While our great cities are becoming daily more costly and unworkable, the countryside is being depopulated. An intractable problem of rural unemployment has developed - the youth of the countryside are leaving both the farms and the towns in their thousands. The economic conditions of the day as well as the long term needs of the nation absolutely require that we should start this year on restructuring our capital cities and building up our provincial cities and building new cities. The longer we delay proper regional development, the longer we defer regional development schemes, the less chance -we have of preserving any semblance of community balance and community identity in our countryside. But the Country Party, mesmerised by the shadows of subsidies and ignoring the substance of regional development, allows another year to be lost; it allows another year of drift and disintegration. 
One of the greatest inflationary forces built into the Australian economic system is the manner in which our great cities are growing. The increasing congestion of cities - their gross inefficiency as part of the transport system - adds yearly to all transport costs, not least farm costs. The number of miles per hour a road transport can travel in Sydney has been halved in a decade. The greatest single outlay the Treasurer's typical Australian ever makes in his lifetime is for land and housing. In every capital - now one has to include Canberra for the first time since its beginnings^ - the average price of land has trebled in the last 10 years. Yet the Liberals have refused to acknowledge that the national government must accept a share of responsibility for reducing the cost of the citizen's greatest single burden. This Budget continues the refusal to assist the States and local government to buy land, develop it and sell or lease it at cost.The nation's basic resource is its land; the Liberals still hold to the doctrinaire belief that developers alone have the inalienable right to alienate the people's land. 
The Treasurer's typical Australian is a ratepayer. Increasingly, he and his family depend on local government to provide a whole new range of basic services in health, welfare, sport, culture and recreation. Yet this Budget once again - like every Liberal Budget for the past 25 years - ignores the role of local government and ignores the national government's direct responsibility for local government. This is where the debts are growing fastest and where taxes and charges are growing fastest. In the Sydney Water Board area, 53c in every dollar paid in rates goes on loan servicing. In the Prime Minister's own electorate of Lowe, householders are now receiving notices which tell them that their water rates will be on average 55 per cent higher this year. In North Sydney, the water rates have just been doubled. 
And it cannot be argued that local government is not a national budgetary responsibility or that the third level of government in Australia is solely a State responsibility. The Australian national Government takes directly a greater share of the national revenue resources than is the case in any other federal system in the world; but the Australian national Government provides directly fewer government services than in any comparable federal system in the world. The latest figures the Treasurer has given me show that the percentage of total government revenue raised by Federal authorities is 78.6 in Australia, 62.9 in America, 51.5 in Canada and 49 in West Germany. The State share is 12 per cent in Australia, 20.2 per cent in America, 32.7 per cent in Canada and 32.1 per cent in West Germany. Local and semi-government authorities in Australia have had to resort increasingly to borrowings. Within a year their debts will exceed those of all the States combined. To discuss the national economy, the national revenue and expenditure simply in terms of the Commonwealth taxes and CommonwealthState finances is to ignore the very heart of the financial problem - and that problem is the proper and effective financing and functioning of the 3 levels of government in Australia. Yet the Budget is silent on every aspect of municipal problems. It makes no provision to give local and semi-government authorities adequate access to the nation's finances. As a result, every charge and cost will continue to increase, and every service will continue to decline. Every typical Australian, and every atypical one, will continue to pay more for less as a consequence of this Budget's neglect. 
Every year the Commonwealth involvement in cities, schools and hospitals is deferred, standards decline and the backlog becomes ever more difficult and ever more costly to overcome. Take hospitals, a field in which this Government refuses to involve itself in any more than helping to meet part of the fees. The result of that sort of limited involvement is that a family man with a taxable income of $3,000 pays in New South Wales $1.24 a week for public ward cover, a man on $5,000 pays $1.06, while a man on $20,000 pays 5 lc. The richer a person is, the less he pays because the more his tax deductions are worth. But in the hospitals themselves lack of Commonwealth commitment is leading to alarming regional imbalances and inadequacies. For instance in Sydney the Planning Liaison Committee of the Metropolitan Hospitals has just reported that by 1980, even if all present proposals are fulfilled throughout the metropolitan area, the bed surplus in the inner Sydney region and the bed deficit in the western region will both have become much greater than at present. Any saving to the Commonwealth by inactivity now is storing up disaster for the future. 
Even more important, there is the human cost and human waste arising from every year lost. Take pre-schools - in this Budget there is a paltry effort to redeem in 1972 the promise made by the former Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  for kindergartencumchildminding centres. Without disparaging their value, let me say that they are no substitute for proper preschool training. Yet the Commonwealth refuses to involve itself in this field. Because of its refusal a whole generation of Australian children is growing up without the enormous benefits that pre-school education brings. It is one of the great instruments for educational, social and cultural equality. Yet only in Canberra, where the Commonwealth cannot escape its responsibility, can every child enjoy at least 1 year's pre-school training at properly equipped, properly staffed centres. A nation's education system is a failure if students do not leave it with equality of opportunity in life. By that standard ours is an outstanding failure. It is idle to pretend that its inadequacies and inequalities can be solved just by the provision of more scholarships, as the Budget does. It requires a continuing Commonwealth commitment to government and nongovernment schools. In future Labor Budgets the education sector will be the area of greatest growth. The lack of any national perspective is again seen in this meagre and piecemeal approach to development. Nothing in this Budget will in any way retard Australia's growing loss of control over her major resources and major industries. Increasingly, the key sectors of the Australian economy are tied to the control of great international corporations. No Australian company alone can deal on the level of these corporations. No Australian State acting alone can deal with them. Only the national Government has the resources, status and stature to do so. 
The greatest reservoir of private capital in Australia is the insurance companies. It is a bigger pool than possessed by the banks or any individual company in Australia. Just as the insurance companies opened up the American West, they can play their part in opening up the new resources in the new areas of Australia. The Commonwealth provides very valuable concessions to Australians by way of tax deductions for insurance. Very properly, Australians have been encouraged to invest in life assurance. Let us maximise the value of these deductions to Australia by co-operating with the insurance companies in the development of Australia. 
The whole of this Budget is framed in the spirit of demoting national responsibility and preserving inequality. There are the immediate questions of unemployment side by side with inflation. There is the long term question of the strong, balanced development of the nation's human and natural resources. The slack in the economy gave a rare opportunity for making a basic attack on the nation's long term problems. The opportunity has been frittered away. It was intolerable that the Government should have deliberately created the sort of unemployment we are now enduring. Yet it might have reduced the mindless cruelty of its own decision last year if the chance had been seized this year to use the economic conditions to begin building a new future for Australia. It might have been poor consolation for the thousands of men and women thrown out of work, but in the long term it would have made some amends to the nation. But this Government has not even left the unemployed with the dignity of having served the nation's larger purposes by their unwarranted and enforced sacrifice. 
The 1972 Budget required a thoroughgoing range of short term measures and long term structures. In this Budget there are only short term measures and the Treasurer scarcely hints at what he believes their economic impact will be. He has done nothing to ensure that the money will be spent by those who most need it, and where it will have the greatest immediate impact without building in inflation. This was the time to establish machinery for national planning and national cooperation. This was the year to begin concentrated efforts to move pensions towards Labor's objective of 25 per cent of the average weekly male earnings and to restore the value of repatriation benefits. This, if ever, was the time to raise unemployment benefits. A government which has produced unemployment has a moral duty to help its victims. This was the time to make an immediate grant of $100m to pensioners and unemployed and thereby give an immediate, once-and-for-all boost to the economy. We would know exactly what it would cost and could quantify fairly accurately its short term economic impact. 
This was the time to begin a proper restructuring of the income tax to reduce the burden on the lower and middle incomes. This was the time to close the tax avoidance loopholes which are costing the revenue not less than $100m a year, and one single case of which, on the Treasurer's own admission, cost $30m last financial year. This was the time to reduce sales tax, particularly on a whole range of necessities which the Treasurer absurdly describes as luxuries. This was the time to involve government in the purchase of residential land to reverse soaring land and housing prices. This was the time to turn rural relief into a long range programme for rural concentration in regional centres. 
This was the time to begin to encourage chosen growth points outside and between the capitals by charging the minimum rate for telecommunications between those points and between them and the capital. This was the time to begin national participation in the regeneration of the urban public transport systems, to implement the latest Australian road survey, to order modern rolling stock and signalling systems for our inter-city railways, to investigate such developments as the French interurban and suburban aerotrains. This was the time to move away from providing scholarships for a minority and to move towards making education, including tertiary education, genuinely free. 
This was the time to start the expanded programme of pre-school teacher training required to give every Australian child proper pre-schooling - the time to open a new world to a whole generation of Australian children. Australia possesses only 28 per cent of the number of qualified pre-school teachers required to give every child in every State the same start as every child in Canberra has long enjoyed. This was the time to put purchasing power in the hands of Australian families by restoring the value of child endowment or introducing family endowment. Whether a family includes one young child or 4 young children, it is still a one-income family. This was the time to begin a programme of direct Commonwealth commitment to the nation's hospitals. 
This was the time to drop the frantic search for exploitable migrant labour, and being a programme of migrant family reunion. This was the time to start looking after the true welfare of the migrants already here - the people who suffer most from unemployment, most from the pressure in the state and parish schools, most from exorbitant land and housing costs, most from the decline of the quality of our cities. This was the time to stop the loss of 34,000 migrants a year by changing the emphasis from recruiting to retaining migrants. This was the time to begin to share the nation's financial resources directly with local government. This was the time to establish a prices justification tribunal, to prevent or retard those unjustified price increases which we well know the untramelled price fixers will try to sneak through in the spending atmosphere the Treasurer hopes to create. 
This was the time to examine seriously the Reserve Bank's warning that last year's decision on the value of the currency is forcing internal prices up and raising overseas capital inflow to dangerously uncontrolled levels. This was the time to start building Australia's future on the basis of justice, equality and national co-operation. Those who aspire to lead this nation must do so on the basis of co-operation with the whole community, not by confronting key sectors of it. This is the root of the present national sickness - the feeling deeply held by whole sections of the community, the employees, large sections of the employers, the youth, the poor, the Aborigines, that their own elected Government is . at best totally indifferent, or at worst overtly hostile, to their hopes, that it seeks to divide them from their fellow citizens. And indeed, in its policies on cities and schools there is an attempt by this national Government to establish an actual physical as well as a cultural and economic division between the sections of the community. 
It is in these things - things close to the national spirit - that the discontent of our community lies; the industrial, student and political unrest is just the most publicised manifestation, of. this unease. And it gets back to a lack of confidence in the national Government, not just in. its personnel, or their competence, not just lack of confidence in their capacity to manage the economy, but a lack of confidence in their very motives. The people of this country just do not trust this Liberal Government. And not the least reason is that this Liberal Government does not trust the people. Public confidence is being sapped in a climate of mutual and deepening suspicion and distruct. By all means let us have an election on this Budget; the sooner the better. However it will not be just in the narrow context of an annual financial document, but in the narrowness of the philosophy the Budget represents, arid the limited vision of the men who presented it to the Parliament and the nation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Is the amendment seconded? 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows). - 

<graphic href="079131197208221_74_6.jpg"></graphic>

The figures shown are based on settlers' intentions at the time, which may not have eventuated. 
Compiled at request by the Legislative Research Service, from information contained in issues of "Overseas Arrivals and Departures" published by the Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics. 

<graphic href="079131197208221_74_7.jpg"></graphic>

Compiled at request by the Legislative Research Service from information contained in issues of "Summary of Vital and Population Statistics" published quarterly by the Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 

<graphic href="079131197208221_74_8.jpg"></graphic>

Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 

<graphic href="079131197208221_75_9.jpg"></graphic>

Compiled at request by the Commonwealth Parliamentary Library Legislative Research Service from information contained in 'External Trade of Western Australia, 1970-71' and 'Overseas Trade  Bulletin i*'70-7l'   published bv he Bureau of Census and Statistics. 
This Budget is explicitly directed to increasing consumer spending and its main contribution to reducing unemployment, if its strategy succeeds at all, will be in secondary industry - precisely the area of industry which is least developed in West ern Australia. This, in fact, is at the basis of the whole Western Australian unemployment problem. The build-up of the State's work force was based on construction work on our extractive industries. Once construction was completed neither the actual production of minerals nor our limited secondary industry was capable of absorbing the manpower released. Instead of recognising this problem and cooperating with the State to relieve it, the Commonwealth has preferred to attack the State Government for the purpose of seeking some Party advantage. It is in this context that one has to consider the comments of: the Minister for Supply  (Mr Garland)  and the Minister for Labour and National Service last week. The Minister for Supply, as the only Minister in this House from Western Australia, might have been expected to adopt a more helpful and less partisan approach than he did. As it was, the best he could do for his State was to oppose a special grant and blame the present position on some alleged propensity of Labor governments 'to tamper with the mechanism of production' and to 'fail to understand how to encourage investment'. Is that not marvellous? We have 13,000 Western Australians unemployed and the best we can get from our Minister is a school essay standard lecture on the virtues of free enterprise. The Minister for Labour and National Service was on the same tack with his gratuitous advice that 'the Western Austraiian Government must go out and sell that State'. 
The major short term causes of the State's unemployment crisis are well recognised and can be counted on the fingers of one hand. They are: The end of the construction stage of the Robe River project, the postponement of the third stage of the Alcoa bauxite refinery at Pinjarra, the postponement of the production stage of Paraburdoo iron ore and the exercise by Japanese mills of their options to reduce tonnages on existing ore contracts. These are at the heart of the immediate problem and are entirely dependent on international conditions, in no way amenable to local control. The State Labor Government did not cause them, and a State Liberal government could not have prevented them. In his franker moments the Minister for Labour and National Service has acknowledged that this is so. 
Last week, by coincidence,  Sir Charles  Court was proclaiming in Perth that Western Australian unemployment was completely the responsibility of the State Labor Government, just as here in Canberra the Federal Minister for Labour and National Service was making it clear that the problem had actually arisen during the period of office of the last Brand-Court Liberal Government. Of course,  Sir Charles  and  Mr Lynch  could not both be right, and it was  Sir Charles  who was wrong, as he would well know. Otherwise, how does he explain the increase in unemployment of 2,000 which occurred during the last year in office of his own Government? I know that this could go on indefinitely, with everybody placing the blame elsewhere and saying: It is your fault. It is their fault. It is his fault. It is everyone's fault but it is nol my fault. As it happens, I believe - I think I have shown this both last Thursday and tonight - that attempts to blame the Western Australian employment position on the State Labor Government are misconceived and dishonest. 
But to tell the truth, for immediate purposes, I do not really care whose fault it is, if it is anybody's fault at all. Surely the important thing is that an intolerable position exists which, if it cannot be cured immediately, can certainly be very quickly relieved. We are not talking about hundreds of millions of dollars; we are talking of something of the order of SI Om to $15m. The benefits from a metropolitan employment grant would be out of all proportion to the cost. The continued and obstinate Commonwealth obstruction to it is as absurd as it is disgraceful. 
I conclude by drawing attention to a more general matter relating to unemployment. I refer to the unaltered level of unemployment benefit. By the current Budget the age pension will be increased to $20 a week for a single pensioner and $34.50 a week for a married pensioner couple. Subject to the appropriate means test, pensioners paying rent will be entitled to $24 a week and $38.50 a week respectively. I do not for the moment raise the question whether these amounts are adequate yet or arrived at satisfactorily. It would surely be fair to say, however, that these figures represent the Government's view of what is a minimum livable income. In which case, how does the Government expect unemployed persons and their families to live on substantially less? On current rates of unemployment benefit, a single adult person receives only $17 a week, a married couple receives $25 a week, and $4.50 is added for each dependent child. Accordingly, assuming the payment of rent in each case, an unemployed man, his wife and 2 children are together expected to live on $4.50 a week less than a married pensioner couple alone. A man, his wife and 3 children are together expected to live on exactly the same amount. The possibility of doing so has only to be suggested to be discarded as absurd. It simply cannot be done. 
Present rates are apparently still based on the traditional assumption that a person becoming unemployed will have both savings to fall back on and prospects of a new job very shortly. Neither assumption is valid today, when long term unemployment has reached serious proportions. According/y,  it seems to  me that the case for unemployment benefit to equal the standard pension rate - at least until the minimum wage is reached in the case of larger families - has become unanswerable. We live in times when the so-called work ethic has come under attack. Put baldly, that ethic postulates that it is immoral not to want to work, and some people now question whether that is really so. But I have never heard an argument against another proposition, namely, that it is immoral not to allow a man to work when he is able and anxious to do so. That is the position in which 99,000 Australians now find themselves. A sharp and early reduction in that number must be a goal of the highest priority. 
I say to the Leader of the Opposition with all due respect that the debate between him and the Minister for the Navy could continue for an almost unlimited period. I think that both honourable gentlemen have explained personal misrepresentations and points of view sufficiently to justify the particular points of view that they have presented to the House individually. 
Order! I remind the honourable member for Mallee that he must not discuss the Budget during the debate on this motion. 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Mr Chipp's)  be agreed to. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 

<graphic href="079131197208232_35_0.jpg"></graphic>

Last year was difficult. We did well to get out of it with a growth rate of 3 per cent. 
Then he blamed some international monetary situations. But what about the credibility of this Government? By referring to the Government we refer to the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  the present Treasurer and the previous Treasurer, the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Bury).  The honourable member for Wentworth was the Treasurer who introduced the Budget of 1969-70 which it was said would achieve a domestic surplus of $500m and did so. In March 1970, when that Budget was under way, he had these interesting remarks to make: 
We are making steady growth. Certainly we in Australia have had ample demonstration of thisin recent years. Whereas in the 50s and the early 60s the average annual rate of growth was about 4 per cent, in the past 5 years the comparable figure has been 5 per cent. . . . Looking ahead there seems to be no good reason why . . the economy should not hold or even exceed its recent rate of growth. 
That is a very unfortunate prediction to have made in the light of the present Treasurer now having to say: 'We sank to 3 per cent'. Let us look at what the former 
Treasurer had to say a little later, bearing in mind that in March he said that the economy was not doing too badly. But in July 1970 he made this statement: 
We did very well in the Budget. We budgeted for a surplus and we got it. 
A press release at that time stated: 

 Mr Bury recalled that a major clement in the 1969-70 Budget strategy had been the large domestic surplus, estimated at about S500m, which was aimed at reducing liquidity in the economy. 
That meant that it was aimed at increasing unemployment, and that is what it did. The extraordinary Budget of last year budgeted for a surplus even above those for the 2 years I have mentioned. It wanted S630m extracted from the taxpayer. As I have said, the Government has had a bit of hindsight because of electoral fears. The Rural Bank had this to say about the surplus of revenue over outlays:   the Budget domestic surplus - is estimated to be S630m compared with $458m in 1970-71. Thus, the Budget will result in a substantial withdrawal of liquidity from the economy. This should act as a strong restraining factor on expenditure by the private sector. 
It did that. Unemployment has now soared, according to the July figures, from 64,000 in 1971 to 99,000 in 1972 because of the Government's peculiar budgetary phobia that to have unemployment is the way to run a healthy growth economy. Let us look at some statistics and see how savage the last Budget of 1971-72 might have been. In the 10 years from 1961 to 1971 personal income tax averaged 37 per cent of receipts. In the Budget of 1971-72 personal income tax went up to 41 per cent of receipts. There was a 4 per cent increase in that year. If we look at whether there were any further benefits to persons by way of outlay we find that the 10 year average of expenditure was a figure of virtually 31 per cent. In the Budget of last year it went up to 32 per cent. Cash benefits to persons over the 10 years averaged 23 per cent. Last year they declined to 22 per cent, so there again there was no benefit we could sec for the small family man whom the present Budget purports to be able to help. A statement made in March of this year by the Institute of Public Affairs - we do not normally support the principles it espouses - quickly puts the finger on this Government for its incompetence and its failure to understand the economy or appreciate the hardship that would be caused to people. It is as follows:   . wage and salary increases are not the only immediate cause of higher prices. Higher costs for imports are clearly another. Lower export returns for primary products associated with home price support schemes may result in higher domestic prices. Higher prices for other exports, for example beef and zinc, mean higher prices on the domestic market for these commodities. Increases in sales tax and excise duties on such things as cars, beer and cigarettes, result immediately in higher prices to the consumer. Increases in company tax and payroll lax are reflected in higher prices. Increases in charges by governments and their business undertakings for TV and radio licenses, postal and telephone services, water, fares and many other things have directly increased the cost of living. They also add to business costs and thus to prices. 
That statement reveals that the major cause of inflation has not been the unfortunate person who pays all the taxes but the fact that the Government itself is running an economy which will force up prices and which has done so, as we have seen from the consumer price index. The Institute of Public Affairs further states: 
Over the past decade the public sector share of total national expenditure has risen from 29 per cent to 33 per cent at the expense of personal consumption. . . . 
When governments add to prices in this way, thus raising living costs, they must expect increased pressures for higher incomes as wags and salary earners try to retrieve their position. 
People find themselves being hit at both ends - by increased living costs at one end and increased taxes at the other - with the result that there is less money in the pay envelope. That is the present position: There is less money in the pay envelope. The consumer price index is soaring out of all proportion despite these so-called efficient Budgets. Using 100 as a mean for 1966-67 the consumer price index has increased to 122.2 in virtually a 5-year period. Where have the greatest increases occurred? In 1969-70 the increase was 2.6 per cent over the previous year. In 1970- 71 there was a further increase of 5.2 per cent over 1969-70. In 1971-72, despite the budgetary position, a record increase of 7.6 per cent over the previous year occurred. 
We are told by Government supporters that the blame lies with the wage earners for asking for too much money as wages, but that is not the issue at all. The submission made to the Arbitration Commission in the 1970 national wage case stated that the lower paid workers could not possibly survive without a 6 per cent increase in wages because of the rising cost of living. The decision in that case was severely criticised by no less a person than the Prime Minister, who then held a portfolio other than his present portfolio or that of Treasurer. 
In a debate in this House in February 1971 when  Mr Bury  was Treasurer the present Prime Minister entered the debate on behalf of  Mr Bury,  who remained silent throughout the debate. In the course of the debate  Mr McMahon  severely criticised the Arbitration Commission. He said that it lacked integrity, that something would have to be done to restore its standing in the community. In this year's national wage case the Government briefed its barrister to oppose any increase at all for wage earners. I ask honourable members to bear in mind the rise in the consumer price index and rising costs generally. Can anyone imagine that a responsible advocate would be briefed to put to the Commission that despite all those cost increases there should be no increase at all in wages? That illustrates how irresponsible the Government was to suggest that that would be the solution for the troubles of the economy. 
The Arbitration Commission seemed to have been overawed by the castigations it received from the Government in the Parliament. However, the Commission said: 'We are not prepared to accept the submission of the Government and we will grant a $2 increase all round'. That increase was granted despite the general submission of the Commonwealth opposing any wage increase at all. I turn now to the comments of the Arbitration Commission on the economy. In its judgment on the national wage case this year it said: 
It is evident on the evidence submitted that there has been a slowdown in the rate of economic growth and a slackening in demand. Unemployment has increased and job vacancies have declined fairly steeply. 
The Commission was convinced that the Government was trying to get out of the mess it had created because it went on to say: 
Moves have been taken by the Commonwealth Government to stimulate demand in employment. On a seasonal basis the employment position failed to improve in February or March. However, it is too early as yet to estimate the overall effects. 
It is a bit too late now because we now know that an overall effect has been that unemployment has further increased since February-March and has reached an all time high of 2 per cent. In the electorate I represent is a large motor manufacturing concern conducted by General MotorsHolden's Pty Ltd. Last January GMH dismissed without any qualms 1,000 men because there was a rundown in the economy. The Government was very worried about the situation in January of this year. It became apparent that the rise in the consumer price index for the previous quarter ending December had reached an all time high of 2.3 per cent despite the budgetary dampening down. Cost-push inflation, not demand inflation, had brought about that result. The Treasurer became very worried and issued a statement on 20th January which contained this passage: 
It is necessary to say something about the alarmist notions which have been so frequently expressed. Charges such as a recession and even a depression have been freely asserted. So far from being any recession, the economy is basically sound and is growing quite strongly. The gross national product can be expected to show an increase of over 4 per cent. If this is to be described as a recession, words have lost their meaning. 
Words must have lost their meaning because only 9 days later 1,000 men in my electorate were sacked by General Motors.Holden's Pty Ltd. That action would be taken in the interests of General Motors which, I suppose, would not have any particular love for the poor unfortunate wage earners. When these dismissed workers approach me to ask where they can receive sustenance and funds to provide for their debts and liabilities, what am I to say to them? Am I to tell them that the Government will produce a Budget next August and they will then be able to get a job? 
The concept of the Budget is ridiculous because it is offered to the electorate in these terms: 'Give us another chance and we will prove ourselves this time.' The Government is always keen to talk about defence. Is it not rather incongruous that yesterday in this Parliament the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  lauded the fact - and we must applaud it, too - that the wheat growers have been able to sell a million metric tons of wheat to Russia for $50m, while almost in the same breath, in the Budget the Government is saying that it must increase the defence vote because of the threat from the Russians in the Indian Ocean? Is it not a double standard? If there is such a threat we will not do much to stop it with the 3 DDL destroyers or the aircraft carrier which has to last us until 1980. 
If this country is to be defended properly it is necessary to develop a national spirit, and not to have people unemployed and depressed. The Government should be looking after the fellows in the Navy. Members of the Navy who enlisted for a period of 6 years did not renew their terms of service to the extent that could have been expected. The figures show that only 29 per cent re-enlisted for active service in the Navy in 1970-71 and 35 per cent in 1971-72. The basis of defence strategy lies with the personnel. Honourable members who have constituents in the Navy know that they are all getting out because they have had it. They say: 'We cannot go on like this any longer. Our children are being dragged from one end of the nation to the other. We cannot achieve the same financial viability as people outside the Services. Why should we be in this position?' Our defence structure needs to be reconsidered and greater attention paid to the personnel employed in it. 
The Prime Minister has said that he favours high interest rates. That was his big yardstick to control inflation. He said: Bump up interest rates. That is the way to do it.' That policy had a remarkable effect. The great finance companies, many of which have overseas interests, are mainly not subject to banking restrictions. For example, Beneficial Finance Corporation Ltd has a 20 per cent interest held by the Bank of Tokyo. Other such companies have interests in the United States and the United Kingdom as well as here. In 1965 those finance companies made a net profit of $22.4m. Last year they made a net profit of $57m. They are the one sector of the economy that is doing better than ever when every other sector is running down. In other words, they are extracting their money from the little people and hoarding it. The wage earners must run to the mon eylenders and pay interest at the rate of 13 per cent flat so that the finance companies can make exorbitant profits. Is this the correct way to run the economy? 1 draw the attention of honourable members to the remarks of  Sir Robert  Askin, the Premier of New South Wales, in September fast year in a loan programme speech. He said: 
State works programmes almost without exception comprise projects designed to meet immediate needs- In fact, in any areas we are trying to overtake a backlog of needs which has been built up over a period. 
We have not been able to provide services to keep pace with the surging flow of migrants, let alone the increasingly sophisticated requirements of our progressive and developing society. In short there is a pressing need for hospital beds, school buildings, water and sewerage, modern transport and other essential State services which it is wrong to under-estimate because of the latest economic indicators. 
For these reasons, all States pressed vigorously for a realistic increase in their loan allocations but after lengthy discussion the Commonwealth would agree to support an overall programme of only $860m for works and housing. This is an increase of 4.5 per cent on 1970-71 or only about half the increase in costs which has taken place over the year. These figures highlight the dampening restraints which the Commonwealth has placed on the works and housing effort of the States. 
Is that not a shocking indictment upon the Government? Let us now examine the position in the New South Wales Housing Commission. It has an all-time record waiting list of 42,000 applications for homes. Age pensioners have to wait 5 years for a home. Is that the sort of economy on which the Government thinks it can build a nation? The Government has been found out by the people of Australia. The gallup polls show that the Government no longer has their support. The Government's credibility can no longer be accepted. If the Government were returned at the next election it would only introduce another punitive Budget next year. The people should not fall for the Government's election gimmick that there is something for everybody in the Budget because there is not. It is too little too late. Until such time as the Government understands the major factors that are causing inflation and the needs of the people it cannot possibly get the support of the people. 
Does the Minister claim to have been misrepresented? 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 

 Mr JARMAN (Deakin)- If the honourable member for Robertson has issued a statement I apologise. I have not seen it. As a result of his statement in this House I was conscious of the fact that he had blown his horn outside the South African Embassy but I had not seen any statement by him against the policies of the Ugandan Government. However, if the honourable member for Robertson has made that statement I certainly do apologise. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Is leave granted? 
I know that the Government is looking carefully at the whole area of overseas investment in Australia, including takeovers. One of the many questions is whether we need to set up some kind of screening process to ensure that overseas capital is employed in ways which are to our mutual advantage. Australia is such a prime target for overseas investors that surely we can afford to be selective and to set reasonable conditions. We should establish rules and mechanisms which are compatible with the continuing flow of desirable foreign investment, which prevent undesirable foreign takeovers and which contain foreign domination of important industries. There must be a mechanism to preserve for Australia the opportunity to have a stake in great new developments. Our responsibility to future generations of Australians is to leave them as owners, not tenants. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 
6.01 OPEN SPACE LEARNING AREAS 
The sponsoring department has requested that these schools be planned and designed on the open plan' principle. The educational theory and practice underlying this approach to primary school planning is the educators' need for a physical environment in which teaching can proceed flexibly and which can be readily and quickly adapted to different kinds of teaching and learning situations. 
Traditionally schools have consisted of  a  collection of similar sized classrooms designed to cater for similar sized groups of children in care of one teacher. The 'open plan' concept is a different kind of school in which the space can either be used as a whole for large group instruction or subdivided and arranged as required to cater for individual study or group work. In it children may move easily from large to small groups or to individual study and the teachers also move around to assist individuals or groups rather than teach in front of the children. By innovative arrangement the plan developed for these schools allows for change in the composition of these groups and the open spaces have been designed to permit one area to expand into another without subdivision, or to contract into a number of smaller units. 
The atmosphere and general character of the open learning areas will be domestic and related to the needs of children. Virtually no area has been set aside in the plan for internal circulation in the open learning areas and a high percentage of the total area will be teaching space. 
A feature of the proposed design is that it will be possible to revert these schools back to  a  more conventional classroom arrangement by subdividing the open learning areas into smaller rooms of similar size should this be required in future years. 
6.02 SINGLE TEACHER CLASSROOMS 
To cater for remedial and other specialist needs the open learning areas of the school have been supplemented with 4 single teacher classrooms. These will be partially separated from each other by demountable partitions extending for two-thirds of the room's dimensions. 
6.03 LIBRARY AND RESOURCE CENTRE 
The library has been provided to assist students  in developing their own abilities and natural aptitudes. It will be developed as a media resource centre and will contain tape recorders, tapes, projectors and other media in addition to the essential book collection. 
6.04 ANCILLARY AREAS 
The open spaces are essentially general purpose learning areas and as such they require a number of ancillary areas for specialised purposes. To meet the latter requirement, teachers' rooms, store rooms, practical work areas and fully enclosed special activity rooms have been provided within each open space learning area suite. The craft room is another ancillary adjunct provided in association with the primary classrooms and open learning areas. 
6.05 FUNCTIONAL RELATIONSHIPS 
The functional requirements of each school resolve into the following groups of accommodation: administration library-resource centre infant department primary department assembly areas pre-school 
In the planning these elements have been arranged according to their functional relationships. The infant and primary classrooms and open space learning areas have been grouped together within each department and arranged around the library and resource centre which can be regarded as the hub of the school. The kindergarten facilities have been grouped together and accommodated in the pre-school wing which comprises a further element of each school. All 'open plan' learning areas open onto semi-enclosed sheltered courts where infant and primary children will be able to undertake project assignments and other activities out of doors. 
The administration area, with the staff common room adjoining, has been located in a wing near the main entrance and convenient to the primary and infant departments of the school. 
The school canteen has been located as a division between the primary and infant sections of the covered assembly areas planned at the rear of each school and within convenient distance of the adjoining community oval. 6.06 ACOUSTIC TREATMENT 
Acoustic treatment will bc provided to reduce the general noise level so that speech intelligibility is satisfactorily maintained within each 'open space' learning area. To achieve this the floors in the learning areas will be carpeted and ceilings treated acoustically as necessary. The special activity rooms will be acoustically separated from the rest of the building. 
Many people say: 'If you want to live a decent life, live in an area which is controlled by the Commonwealth because the Commonwealth gets its hands on the proceeds of uniform taxation first of all'. In other debates we have been saying what a wonderful thing it would be in other parts of Australia if the public education system were expanded to incorporate pre-school education. Obviously the best site for preschool education is in conjunction with the primary and infant school. If it is good enough for Tiwi and Wanguri it ought to be good enough for other parts of Australia. I regard this as a great precedent which ought to be followed by the States and which ought to be financed by the Commonwealth. The Commonwealth substantially has the responsibility for underwriting the States in regard to education, and if this concept is desirable for Commonwealth territories we ought to be making more money available so that pre-school opportunities are available at school sites. 
The open class concept is of such a nature that the schoolroom situation can be rearranged to provide for collective teaching, that is, for the utilisation of a number of teachers at the one time in an enlarged classroom. The classroom can be reduced in area. The furniture is movable; sometimes it takes the form of lightweight fibreglass squares which can be pushed into place to be made into tables, chairs or work benches. In addition, children have the opportunity of going immediately to open door learning areas which are screened and covered from the sun, which are aesthetically designed and which in a total way represent an appealing situation in which children can operate. 
The library area provides all kinds of additional features apart from those that are ordinarily seen in a library. The ceilings are acoustic and there are carpets on the floor. Children can move around the place and make noise which is absorbed. In general, they are in a convivial, acceptable and happy situation in their learning process rather than being subjected to the oldfashioned disciplinary arrangement where the teacher seems to stand on one side and the children stand on the other side. The children and teachers work together in a friendly way and they develop selfmotivation. Even the parents become part of this learning process. 
I strongly recommend that those honourable members who are interested in this concept look not just at the report provided by the Public Works Committee but also at the evidence given by the departmental experts. I believe that this kind of educational system will sweep out of the Tiwi and Wanguri schools and the other 2 schools that are being built at the moment - Nakara and Brunkin, which also are in Darwin and which incorporate this open class system - and find general acceptance because it is such an obviously desirable system that it will concern Australian children generally. I am pleased that the people of Darwin will get the opportunity to use this process because I have no doubt that a very great result will be achieved in the educational standards of the children in the Tiwi and Wanguri school districts. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I support the Budget and oppose the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  When one looks through the Budget, reads the Budget Speech by the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  and gives consideration to the factors that he mentioned in that speech one has an understanding that this  is  a Budget presented by a government that has given consideration to the responsibility of government on the Treasury bench and also to the need for some stimulation in the economic spheres of our country and in relation to certain sections of the community. If one reads through the Treasurer's speech one will find that he refers to additional payments to pensioners. Attention is given to the social welfare section in the Budget and to the primary industries which are still vitally important and which in some quarters are still not given the consideration that is due. Many members on the Government side of this Parliament have referred to the comment made by the Leader of the Opposition relating to the value of the Australian dollar. 
In the sphere of education additional responsibility has been accepted by the Commonwealth Government. I will have something to say about that at a later stage. In regard to centralised control by the Federal Government on all these matters I believe that we have to assist the States to assist local government, as the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  said. I will have something further to say about that also later. I sometimes fear that too much emphasis is being placed upon the role of and control by the Federal Government. I think too much control would be detrimental, irrespective of what Party is in power, but particularly if the Labor Party were in office. I have said this on a number of occasions in this House. I am extremely gratified by the social welfare provisions in the Budget, particularly the additional assistance to be given for home nursing. A number of years ago I had the privilege of being a member of a committee that was set up by the then Minister for Health,  Dr Cameron,  to look into the assistance being given in relation to home nursing. Two valuable points need to be mentioned. One is that, in many instances, a person is able to stay within his own home and receive that attention in his own home, and this has a psychological advantage for the patient. The second point is that this system frees a number of beds in our hospitals that would otherwise be occupied. This is of tremendous advantage in relation to the hospital bed situation we find in this country. 
My friend and colleague the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  spoke earlier today about the long term loan scheme that is to be put into effect. I have been advocating this for quite a considerable period of time, lt will be of tremendous advantage. People on the land are sometimes faced not only with the problem of availability of finance but also with the difficulty they have, if it is only short term finance, of making the repayments and covering the interest. If this finance is spread over a long term it gives them the availability of finance so that they are able to plan ahead those things which are to their economic advantage on the land, to give them an opportunity to increase their production and at the same time to give them a return which will allow them sufficient time to make those repayments. In many instances people have borrowed money to extend their property or to increase their production. The repayments and the interest have caused them to lose the value that this additional production and area would normally give them. I view with a great deal of satisfaction that this scheme will be given further consideration by the Government and will ultimately come about 
I think my colleague the honourable member for Maranoa spoke about the Oppo sition's rural policy. Of course, it is extremely difficult to find out what that policy is because it changes almost every day. 1 do not think that even honourable members opposite know what their rural policy is. In the field of local government I hope that the Government will be able to see its way clear to match a grant that at the present stage is given to local government by the State governments. 1 am thinking particularly of NewSouth Wales. The New South Wales Government gives financial assistance to local government and I hope that the Federal Government will see its way clear to match that grant on a dollar for dollar basis. This would be of tremendous advantage to local government although a great deal of assistance has been given to it. This is one way in which the Federal Government could assist without necessarily having a great deal of control. I think we should give as much assistance as possible with a minimum amount of control. 
I want to comment on something that the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  said. I did not take down the actual words he used but his theme was that people are becoming tired of being told what to do and what to read by this Government. I think that if the honourable member for Robertson were to go out into the cities and the byways he would find the exact opposite applying. He would find that in this country there are many people who are becoming concerned at what we might call our permissive society and that, although we do not want to have too much censorship, there is also the other side of the story, namely, that we can have too little. I believe that the time has come when we really have to look at this situation and ascertain what advantages have accrued by lifting some restrictions perhaps a little too much. 
I think that we also should remind ourselves that a Budget is only one instrument of policy and that there are many instruments of policy of a Federal government - vitally important each and every one of them - for example, foreign policy, defence policy, industrial relations policy and policy on something that is rearing its ugly head in this country, namely, the climate of violence. I believe that the Opposition is using the phrase 'It's time'. Of course the theme of the phrase 'It's time' is that because of the length of time this Government has occupied the treasury bench it is time for a change. One might ask the question: Change to what?' I think that the people of Australia should really look at the answer to that question because if one decides to change one endeavours to change for something better. 
A quorum? 
Whenever an honourable member says something sensible the honourable member for Sturt calls for a quorum. (Quorum formed.) I am really very satisfied because whenever the honourable member for Sturt or some other honourable member calls for a quorum it means that he does not like what is being said. It shows that what has been said by honourable members on this side of the House throughout today is basically true, namely, that unfortunately the Labor Party will not face up to its responsibility. The Labor Party tries to keep covering up this thing that has been facing it for the last 20 years. Until it faces up to this, it will remain in Opposition in this Parliament. It will remain in Opposition after the next election. I say to honourable members opposite that, with all their gallop polls, with all the indications that might have been put out and with all the criticism - in many instances unfair criticism - of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  the members of the Australian public basically still have a common decency and do not want to see this country develop into the situation into which it has tended to develop in recent months. This is the very point which has been made this afternoon by some of my colleagues and which is being made by so many people. The silent majority, on the day when this country goes to the polls, will return this Government to power because the people are frightened of what might happen if the Opposition ever occupied the treasury bench. The editorial in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' of 24th August 1972 reads: 

 Mr Whitlam's very emphasis on the Budget as a national cure-all is consistent with his strong centralist instincts and beliefs. . . . 
Altogether this speech augured ill for the rational and responsible debate which we have a right to expect in the campaign ahead. 
This,  Sir, is  so true. I want to emphasise the point that was made by 2 or 3 of my colleagues earlier this afternoon; that is, this tendency for violence to occur whenever something happens which a left wing union or a communist inspired union or group does not like or which appears to them to be something that will be a disadvantage to them in their desire to take control of and dominate those people over whom they desire to assert authority. We had quoted to us this afternoon something said by  Mr Ducker  to this man Ball, who is a communist. He literally pleaded with Ball to see that there was no violence. If I remember correctly, this is what was said by the man Ball to  Mr Ducker:  'You will have to take it as it falls, mate'. There are some members of the Opposition who do not want violence. There are some members of the Opposition who oppose it. But they must accept their share of responsibility because violence has reared its head. They cannot ignore it. 
Let me take the minds of Opposition members back to what happened at the time of the tour by the South African rugby team. Whether we agree or disagree with apartheid or whether we agree or disagree that the tour should have taken place, the fact is that hooligans and ratbags threw crackers underneath the hooves or horses in an attempt to impose their will upon people who wanted to watch a football match. Recently there was a similar incident in the United States. I commend to honour, able members a book called 'Capable of Honour', written by Allen Drury. This book is something of which I think, in certain circumstances, some members of the Opposition should take note. Although it is a story, it was written by a journalist who has the thoughts of a journalist and is the type of person who can write such a story. He wrote something which shocks the imagination. Yet we heard about the incident which happened in the United States recently and involved the Republican Convention. In the United States there are people such as Jane Fonda and even the Democratic presidential candidate McGovern, both of whom are saying to Hanoi and to the North Vietnamese: 'Hang on long enough and it will be all right because we will undermine the very things that are happening'. 
I am rather surprised that the honourable member for Grayndler, who has in his mind and heart, I think, some of the traditions of the Labor Party, should try to do something like this. I should now like to quote some words which appeared in a Canberra church magazine. They were written by the Very Reverend Hector Harrison. He wrote: 
Now that, with few exceptions, all our Forces have returned from Vietnam, the police are, as always, the ones, who in our own country, run the risk of suffering casualties, even to the sacrifice of their lives. In Canberra, where there are so many demonstrations, they have to deal, not only with decent protesters, but with male and female hooligans who join in whenever and wherever there is the slightest hint of revolt. The police are called upon to enforce the law and in doing so they often meet with determined resistance. In the news 'police brutality' is often mentioned but rarely, if ever, is there any mention of 'mob brutality'. The wonder to me is that policemen are as tolerant as they are, for mobs so often try and goad them to stern measures beyond what is necessary. 
The Australian public, Christians especially, should realise that the police force is an integral and valuable element in the life of the nation. Very often those who are quick to criticise are quick also to call 'Send for the police' when they are in trouble. 
The Armed Forces - Here again there has been revolt against the Government's attempt to keep the armed forces up to full strength by supple mentary national service. The Church has a duty to stand by conscientious objectors but those who defy the law for any other reason should not complain if they have to pay the penalty of their defiance. The choice is to leave Australia defenceless or to train men for its defence. 
Those are the words not of a man caught up closely in political life as we are are but of a man who has fought and served his country both in peace and in war. I believe that he has expressed the type of thinking we should be putting forward today. That is why we on this side of the House have been pointing out the danger of the communist infiltration of unions and stressing the influence and essence of that danger. 
The Labor Party has the catchcry of 'It is time'. Let me say again that it is time for many members of the Labor Party to search their own hearts. They must stop evading the issues, closing their eyes and saying that the very things that happened in Sydney only last week do not happen. Unless this country wakes up to its responsibilities these things will continue to happen. It is time that the Australian people realised that, as 1 am sure they will. On the day of the election the silent majority who believe in the progress and future of this country will return this Government to continue the policies in defence and economic matters that it has followed in the past 23 years. 
Order! I inform the honourable member for Sturt that the motion which has been moved by the Leader of the House should be agreed to by the House first in the sense that it relates to the sitting of the House. When that question is resolved the honourable member can raise his point and then the matter will come before the Chair and the House. I think that the motion which has been moved should be agreed to because it relates to the rising of the House and the next time of sitting. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. (Quorum formed) 
In accordance with standing order 226 the Committee will first consider the Second Schedule of the Bill. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection leave is granted. 
We are all strongly of the view that there is already too much concession to the needs of private motorists and the accommodation of their vehicles in the existing proposals for the development of Canberra. Although there is a public transport system in existence, we have formed the impression that it does not provide an acceptable alternative to the private motorist, to the use of his own vehicle. Nor do we consider that improvement in the public transport system alone will reduce the community's reliance on private motor vehicles. Improvement to the public transport system is needed but would only be effective in conjunction with some discouragement to private motorists for the use of their own cars, plus consideration of the introduction of staggered working hours. The provision of extensive parking facilities close to Government offices and other workplaces continues the trend of encouraging private motorists which we consider should be arrested. 
There are 2 further points that I should make. The first concerns the position in which this Committee is often placed when asked to consider proposed variations to roads. In many cases these are identical to major develepmental projects undertaken by the Commission. Very often the land use proposals have reached a point of development which makes it very difficult for the Committee to oppose the proposed variations to roads which are incidental to the overall plan. This is a problem that previous Committees also noted. The Commission is also aware of it. We are grateful for the opportunity to attend sessions with the Commission when we are given some advance notice of the new developments which are being considered. However, we feel that it would be helpful if in future when variations are referred to the Committee, the referral were at an earlier stage so that the land development proposal could be modified should the Committee be disposed to recommend against the implementation of the road variations which it has been asked to examine and report upon. I commend the report to the House. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 

 Mr ENDERBY (Australian Capital Territory - I ask leave to make a short statement. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
Order! The time allotted for the debate has expired. 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Mr Whitlam's)  be agreed to. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Sitting suspended from 6.13 to 8 p.m. 
Order! I think that the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory has been in this House long enough to know the Standing Orders and from his experience he should understand and appreciate the circumstances to which they apply. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 
COMMONWEALTH SUBMISSIONS TO COMMISSION 
Excess profits and managerial inefficiency must not be permitted to deprive employees of the Australian workforce of the progressive improvement in the quality of life which modern science and technology can provide. Public interest, therefore, demands that the Commonwealth play a positive role in cases before the Commission concerning - 
provision for increased leisure time for employees in a manner which is appropriate to a particular industry and which will not affect the objective of ensuring that there is an increase in real wage and salary standards. These provisions may include - 
a 4, 4 or 5 day working week, 
a 9 day working fortnight, 
a 35 hour working week, according to the circumstances of an industry, including the history of the industry, the degree of automation and mechanisation and other relevant factors. The ultimate aim is to secure a 35 hour working week in circumstances which will ensure fair treatment of all sections of the community, 
The current campaign for a 35-hour week is designed to increase job opportunities for those who cannot get any work at all and to improve the quality of life for those who are in employment by increasing their leisure time. If the 35- hour week doesn't increase job opportunities for the jobless, and provide more leisure for those who have jobs, it will have failed to reach its most laudable objective. 
The Commonwealth Parliament has no constitutional authority to legislate for a 35-hour week for persons who are privately employed. The Arbitration Commission is the only body that has power to award a 35-hour week for employees covered by federal awards. Sixty per cent of all employees work under State awards and their standard hours cannot be reduced except by decisions taken outside the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. The Commonwealth should play a positive role in cases before the Commission concerning such issues as the 35-hour week. A Labor government would do exactly that. We will gather the facts, reveal the facts and let the Arbitration Commission determine what decision should be made on the facts that are put before it. We will not conceal the facts, as is the case at present. We will have regard to the circumstances of the particular industry, including the history of the industry, the degree of automation and mechanisation and other relevant facts. Where those relevant facts support a union claim a Labor government would, of course, intervene to give its full support for the claim and it would rest with the Commission to determine what should be done after hearing both sides. But the ultimate aim of a Labor government would be to secure a 35-hour working week in circumstances which would ensure fair treatment to all sections of the community. 
One of the ironies of the recent amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act is that the Government's decision to force every agreement and every consent award to go to a full bench for approval has had the effect of forcing the bench to place its official imprimatur upon 35-hour week ageements so that they can be used as a stepping stone for other industries. This has occurred because the Government did not understand enough about the Conciliation and Arbitration Act to know what it was doing at the time it introduced the amendments. The Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  looks innocent, and he looked innocent at the time he introduced the amending Bill because he is completely innocent of what it is all about. I do not blame him and I do not even blame the advisers because I know of one particular case in which his advisers told him not to touch one proposition with a 40-foot pole. He took it to the Cabinet and the Prime Minister said: 'Never mind about whether the thing is proper or not. It has political mileage in it so let us go for it - secret ballots against strikes. We know it will not work but it sounds good.' So the Minister had to bow out as gracefully as he could. 
It is not true to say that no industry now can afford a shorter working week. As I said before, the same thing was said when the 48, 44 and 40-hour working weeks were introduced. But there will be very serious consequences in Australia if the 35-hour week is delayed too long. There is no doubt that we could, I suppose, reduce costs by returning to a 48, 50 or 60-hour working week, but how would we find enough customers for the increased output if 900,000 of our present customers were out of work, because that is what would happen? It is axiomatic that if hours are increased to 48, the unemployment number is increased by 900,000. Excessive profits and managerial inefficiency must not be allowed to stand in the way of the employees in the Australian workforce enjoying the benefits of progressive improvement in the quality of life which modern science and technology can provide. Why does not the Government have a look at excessive profits? Why does not the Government look at the rackets which are going on in tax evasion? Why does not the Government do something about restrictive trade practices? Why does not the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden),  who is sitting sucking his pencil, bring in a Bill to give effect to some legislation which will give us some relief from the overseas control that we now suffer from - multi national conglomerates that come into our country and fix arbitrarily the price of the things we have to buy? 
I am personally convinced that employers are overstating their case against the 35-hour week when they say that this reform will merely increase the amount of regular overtime. To the extent that it is true, this is an indictment of 2 bodies: One is the Government for not retraining those who are out of work to take jobs that are available, and the second is the Arbitration Commission for fixing rates of pay that are so low that people are compelled, in order to eke out an existence, to take a second job. As I have already mentioned, it was not true to say that the stevedoring industry costs were increased as a result of the 35-hour week. The stevedoring industry reached a point in the end where something like 600 or 700 people faced unemployment unless they had a reduction in hours. There is not really much hope for anybody who feels that he is on the verge of the unemployment queue, because he is well and truly headed for it. 
Before I sit down, 1 want to deal with the contradictory statements made by the Prime Minister about the cost of a 35-hour working week. On 10th August, the Prime Minister stated that the introduction of a 35-hour working week would increase costs by 18 per cent. Then the Minister for Labour and National Service said that the increase would be 12 per cent. In another statement, the Minister said that it would be 9 per cent. The Minister then said that the Prime Minister's estimate of an 18 per cent increase came from a report by a committee of senior officers drawn from departments concerned with economic and related matters. Let me tell the Minister for Labour and National Service who is at the table that 1 know all about the committee. The committee did not say that there would be an across the board increase of 18 per cent in all circumstances because of the introduction of a 35-hour working week. The committee said that there could be freak situations in which an increase of 18 per cent could occur. 
So, this freak who passes for a Prime Minister decided to pick up the freak situation that was described by this special committee and say that 18 per cent represented the real cost. How are we to expect any stability? How can we place our confidence in a Prime Minister who recklessly declares in the Press that the cost of introducing a 35-hour working week will be an 18 per cent increase when his own Minister for Labour and National Service said that it will be only 9 per cent and then to try to make his Prime Minister not look too silly, decided to settle for 12 per cent? 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Order! I do not want to interrupt the Leader of the Opposition, but I think he is now getting into the sphere of debate which should be presented when the legislation is introduced at a later stage. I appreciate that there is a very thin line between the 2 matters, but I would appreciate it if the Leader of the Opposition would not debate the subject matter of the legislation. 
Order! The Leader of the Opposition's time has expired. 
That is an opinion. It is not a point of order that can be taken under the Standing Orders. 
We are not attempting to judge the individuals or the charges against them. I have expressly not referred to individuals. I have expressly not pursued any of the charges against them. I have merely stated the category of offences. I am expressly stating that there are no offences under the Trespass on Commonwealth Lands Ordinance. I am expressly assuring the House that there are no charges pending either with respect to the removal of tents last night or on 20th July or on 23rd July under the Trespass on Commonwealth Lands Ordinance. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 
Manufacturing activities. The Commonwealth Government, through departments, and instrumentalities engages in a wide range of manufacturing activities such as war materials, clothing and equipment, telecommunications equipment and printing. These activities, while not locationally bound in the sense that they need to be in Canberra or a State capital, would be subject to constraints in terms of obtaining of raw materials, and distributing finished products. It would appear, however, that the more labour-intensive activities could be well suited for relocation in selected growth centres. 
Research and testing activities. A wide range of laboratories, testing stations and the like is maintained by a number of Departments and Authorities in a very diverse group of locations in Australia. Many of these activities appear to have few locational constraints and, in fact they are often located away from the resources or industries to which they are related, for example most 
CSIRO laboratories dealing with rural industries are located in capital cities. For such laboratories, relocation in appropriate growth centres could be expected to have little impact on their work. 
Large-scale processing, lt has often been suggested that offices involving processing of large quantities of information could easily be relocated away from the capitals. Examples include processing of tax forms, social services cases, census information and the like. It is felt, however, that such activities lend themselves less to relocation than laboratory and testing functions, firstly because of the present high cost of transmission of information and documents on a large scale, and secondly because of the need to have access to processing offices both for the public and for user or policy departments. Unless it could be shown that the relocation - operating costs included - was beneficial without loss ot adequate service for the public such a move should not be undertaken. 
To sum up, there are many areas of Commonwealth activity which appear suitable for consideration for relocation as part of an overall decentralisation policy. First steps along these lines would demonstrate the Commonwealth involvement in a rational approach to decentralisation and regional development. Secondly, relocation of research and testing facilities could have considerable impact on relocation decisions of private firms - as was seen with Government telecommunication research and testing facilities in France (see Part 3 of this report). 
The reports of the Joint Committee on the A.C.T., the Public Service Board and the working party all show that it is time that the advice of parliamentary bodies and public servants should be properly coordinated. We lose too much time in carrying out these matters. Canberra will get too large unless we act.  Sydney  and Melbourne are becoming too large because we do not act. Other suitable centres are available for Commonwealth promotion and they are not progressing as they could because we do not act. I conclude by complimenting the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory on yet another basic and far sighted report on what Australians expect governments to achieve in making proper urban centres for them to live in. 
Order! I suggest that interjections from the corner on my right should cease. 
When interrupted by another member of the Country Party, I was describing the chronology of the gazettal of this ordinance. Yesterday morning the Full Court of the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory ruled that proper notice had not been given of this ordinance and that therefore the ordinance, while valid, was inoperative. One should have thought, after the previous promise that adequate notice would be given, and after the Court's disclosure that no proper notice had been given, that on this occasion proper and adequate notice would have been given. But what do we find? At 11 o'clock last night the Minister for Primary Industry who is the Deputy Leader of the Country Party and the representative in this place of the Attorney-General, gave notice of this Bill. This was immediately followed by a statement by the Minister for the Interior - the junior Country Party Minister in the chamber - that a new gazettal was being made. The House rose at 11.40 p.m. The Bills and Papers office of this House closed at 11.45 p.m. Still there was no 'Gazette*. 
Then at about half-past twelve, in an extraordinarily impressive display of the panoply of the law, the Commonwealth Police arrived and explained the 'Gazette' to the people who had re-erected the Aboriginal embassy on the lawns of Parliament House. These people were perfectly entitled to do so because, be it remembered, there had been no operative ordinance denying them the right to do so. The 'Gazette' came out after midnight. Apparently the first public officials to see it were members of the Commonwealth Police and the first people to whom they showed it were the people who, within the law, bad re-erected the Aboriginal embassy. 
This is the notice we have been given all along. On 11th May notice was going to be given. The ordinance was made on 30th June. An ineffective and inoperative gazettal was made on 20th July. Yesterday the Full Court of the Supreme Court ruled that no proper notice had been given. At 11 o'clock last night we were told that there was going to be a new gazettal and after midnight the 'Gazette' was published. Apparently the Bill was prepared this morning. But then somebody found out that there had been an oversight in the Bill. So we have been told that there is going to be an amendment to it. There could scarcely be a more tawdry history in any legislative matter than this. As I said this morning, it is not only a disgrace to this Government but also an embarrassment to this Parliament and a scandal for the country; and this at a time when we happen to have the First Australian Parliamentary Seminar of the parliaments of the countries within our region meeting under our auspices. What must the delegates think of the procedures in the Parliament of the largest country in this area? What an example we set of law and order, of decent procedures and of the rights of individuals. 
There can be no dispute that this validating Bill is required because for decades under successive governments notices have been given in the 'Gazette' in a sloppy fashion. Frankly, the 'Gazette' notices have said only that certain ordinances, regulations or instruments were available for sale at a certain price. They omitted the formality that they had been made as the various Acts require. This Bill will ask us to assume that all those 'Gazette' notices in fact said that the ordinances, regulations and instruments had been made, and also that they gave a proper notice of where they were available. In these circumstances we will not vote against the second reading but we will move an amendment in Committee to preserve the rights of persons who were affected by the proceedings outside this House on 20th and 23rd July. 
I concede that the Minister for the Interior was extraordinarily mortified and embarrassed yesterday and that some of his interjections or  answers  to questions I put to him after 11 o'clock last night might have been ill considered. However, I would hope that no Minister ever again will overlook the rights of citizens to resist arrest if the arrest is being made without authority. A citizen has rights. A policeman is a citizen too, but he has no greater rights than another citizen unless the law expressly gives him those rights. A policeman in the Australian Capital Territory has no inherent right to arrest people. If a policeman without authority is arresting a person it is no offence to hinder' the police, to assault the police, to obstruct the police, to resist arrest or, I imagine, if police alone were in earshot to use indecent language. That is the array of offences for which 27 people were arrested in association with the demolition of and evictions from the Aboriginal embassy on 20th and 23rd July. 
If this Bill is passed in its present form those persons who were then arrested can still be charged and, if the facts warrant it, convicted because the Act will have retrospective effect. At least it would be arguable that that was so. We should put it beyond argument. We should make it quite plain that any of the persons who were arrested on 20th or 23rd July in association with the ordinance which was inoperative should be in no jeopardy at all. We should also ensure that those persons retain the rights which they would have had to seek redress. This should be clear to anybody in this country: If it cannot be asserted that a person has broken a law there cannot be any excuse for arresting him. If he has been arrested falsely, if he has been prosecuted maliciously - although this might not be the case in this instance - he has rights. He should not be deprived of his rights. He should not be put in jeopardy retrospectively. I would imagine that that is what the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Greenwood)  meant when he said in answer to my colleague  Senator Cavanagh  yesterday afternoon: 
As to whether any compensation may be payable, I feel that the Government's attitude would be that if people considered that their rights had been infringed they, like everyone else, have access  to  the courts of law to assert those rights. 
We will not vote against the second reading. We will move our amendment in Committee. If the amendment is defeated we wm vote against the third reading and in that case we will also vote against the Bill in the Senate. I should explain that we will not vote against the second reading because it is important that people who have acted under ordinances of the Australian Capital Territory and other territories, who have acted under regulations under Commonwealth Acts, and who have acted under instruments made by Ministers, should have their rights confirmed. If persons find that they were able to escape liabilities or were able to enjoy benefits under laws which everybody thought were valid up until now and now find that that is not the case, the matter should be promptly put to rights. One would have thought that there would have been no difficulty in doing that tomorrow. Nevertheless the House has said that it is to be done today, so we will not vote against the second reading. 
 Is there any objection? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Department of Civil Aviation 
Proposed expenditure, $101,588,000. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Order! The honourable member for Angas made an unfortunate choice of words in his opening remarks. He cannot refer in the adjournment debate to a debate that has previously been before the Committee or the House. I therefore suggest that the honourable member for Angas not refer to any previous debate. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection leave is granted. 

 Mr Hawke produced a document from a senior employee in the Ansett organisation to establish that in fact the Government had put pressure on Ansett to stop them negotiating. 
As I remember that television debate, what I should have said was that  Mr Hawke  gave details of a conversation he had had with a member of the Ansett organisation to establish that in fact the Government had put pressure on Ansett to stop its representatives negotiating. This error was inadvertent and I did not notice it until I read today's Hansard report. 
My question is directed  to the Minister for National Development. Is it a fact that any variation of a Commonwealth agreement with the States needs the concurrence of every State even if that variation would affect only one State? Therefore, any variation in the CommonwealthState Softwoods Agreement which would give increased finance to New South Wales would mean a delay in the total agreement, and as that agreement has already been in force for a period of time this could jeopardise its continuation. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I do not wish to take a great deal of the Committee's time in relation to the amendment moved by the Government and presented by the Minister for National Development  (Sir Reginald Swartz),  but I do want to make a brief comment on the delay associated with this Bill, lt was for that reason that I asked the Minister for National Development a question yesterday in regard to a Commonwealth-State agreement. The greatest matter of concern for me has been the delay in the presentation of the Bill. The agreement is almost into its second year of operation. The vital factor is that if this Bill was delayed any further by the introduction of amendments to the Bill or possibly the negotiation of a new agreement, then the agreement would have to take effect from a date later than that originally intended. As I said yesterday, this would put the continuance of the existing arrangement in jeopardy. I am glad that the Government has worked out a compromise in regard to this amendment which related only to the environmental factor. It is now before this House and will then go forward to the Senate. 
Other matters associated with this Bill will be discussed at a later stage. I have made representations in regard to this matter and I hope that the discussions will reach a successful conclusion. As I said, the most vital factor now is that this legislation should be passed so that it can be implemented. 1 feel that a certain amount of politics has been played and those responsible have either been naive or dishonest. 1 think and feel that they have been dishonest. I am delighted that the legislation is now before this House. 1 will continue to make representations to the Minister in regard to the details of our discussions. I repeat that the most important factor is that this legislation should be passed so that the matters related to it can be implemented. 
Order! I suggest that the honourable member for Bowman might reflect on the remarks that he made in regard to the Attorney-General. There is a standing order of which the honourable member should be aware which relates to a reflection upon the personal capacity of any member of this House or any member of the other place. I think the honourable member should reflect on the remarks that he made earlier about the Attorney-General. 
At that stage the Senate Select Committee was considering the episodes of Tasminex, Minsec, Leopold and Queensland Mines, and so on, and one could pose the question: Why was it that the Senate Select Committee did not consider the affairs of this company? If in fact the Senate Select Committee did have some reason for not considering the affairs of this company, why did the Attorney-General not take action to refer this matter to the Committee? In the circumstances, I have been asked to pose these questions: How did this company manage to lose shareholders' funds of $1,825,000 and incur other substantial liabilities in a period of a little more than a year, and what has happened to those funds? Why was this matter not investigated by the Senate Select Committee? What is the position of shareholders who did not receive scrip or who were unable to dispose of their scrip? Is their loss deductible for taxation purposes? What shares in fact did these 2 senators I have mentioned hold in the company? 1 believe the significance of raising this matter is to highlight the fact that many of the particulars regarding the share dealings of members of Parliament in various parts of Australia have been swept under  the  carpet. I am anxious to clarify the situation because I believe that these senators, because of the matter that has been raised with me, are in a position at the moment in which they need to have their names cleared. I refer to a question that was asked in the Senate on 14th September by  Senator Murphy  in respect of the report of the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange and the reply that was given by  Senator Rae,  who is presently  Chairman  of that Committee. I quote from the Senate Hansard of that date.  Senator Rae  said: 
I suggest to  Senator Murphy  that the Committee's report has not been delayed in any way for any purpose, but there have been some times when less interference of a political party natura might have enabled the Committee to spend more time on the preparation of its report. 
The suggestion made in that answer is that there has been party political interference with the inquiry of the Senate Committee. The suggestion has been made to me that that political interference could have reflected on the integrity of members of tha Senate chamber. 
 Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 

<graphic href="080131197209210_69_6.jpg"></graphic>

I think at this stage it would be relevant to mention my experience in dealing with repatriation matters generally. I am now referring to ex-servicemen who apply to have a disability accepted as being due to war service; indeed, they believe that their disability flows directly from war service and decide to apply to the Repatriation Department. I cannot remember a case where any decision has been made unless somewhere in the Repatriation Department or outside it a member of the Australian Medical Association or a repatriation doctor, if he is not a member of the Australian Medical Association, makes a decision and a determination. The Minister may be able to correct me on this. No case is accepted unless there is clearly conclusive evidence beyond all possible doubt that in the opinion of the medical profession the ex-serviceman's disability is due to his war service. Yet there is a criticism from the Australian Medical Association that in its opinion it is far too easy to obtain a pension from the repatriation system. I challenge people who make these statements either to deny or to confirm what I have said in relation to the responsibilities of the Australian Medical Association to determine whether a disability is due to a person's war service. 
By all means let us have a strictly administered Act and one which is consistent, but let it also be a just law. It has become fashionable to knock the repatriation system just because it exists. In a sense this is part of a present climate of anti-militarism and pacifism - both admirable virtues. But by adopting this sort of emotional approach to past wars there are dangers of adopting a double standard. 
Some of the present opponents of the repatriation system opposed in the strongest terms the Vietnam War, as did the Australian Labor Party. According to the latest report of the Repatriation Commission some 12,000 people are getting entitlements because of war injuries in Vietnam. These are not all ex-servicemen. The majority are dependants but a substantial number of ex-servicemen from Vietnam are getting a service pension under the Act. Because of the common use of mines and explosive booby traps in Vietnam many of the Australian wounded were very seriously injured. As I have pointed out in the House before, many men who would have died from serious wounds in earlier wars survived in Vietnam because of advances in medical techniques and helicopter evacuation of the wounded. Many of these injured people and many of the dependants of men who were killed are dependent on the Repatriation Act for their subsistence and their survival. These men who were required to fight by their Governments should not be denied the only piece of legislation which assists them. It may take a considerable effort on the part of some critics of the system to reach any sort of empathy with an ex-soldier, whether he be a World War II soldier, a Korean veteran or a Vietnam exserviceman. In the interests of humanity and equity it is an effort which should be made. 
In the increases made by the Budget and put into operation by this Bill, the most notable improvement is in the general rate pension. For the first time since 1964-65 the general rate pension has been lifted and this goes part of the way to restoring the relative value of this pension. It should be pointed out that it is still only 13.78 per cent of average weekly earnings, compared with 25.06 per cent in 1959-60 and 28.35 per cent in 1949-50. The increase of $3.50 in the special rate pension looks better on paper than it is in relative terms. The increase barely maintains the relativity to average weekly earnings that it had in the previous year; in fact there has been a slight deterioration. To put the position fairly, if the yardstick of the Commonwealth basic wage is used, there has been a notable advance from 85.90 per cent in the previous year to 92.66 per cent at the moment. These relativities are only guidelines and it is arguable whether average weekly earnings or the basic wage is the most relevant. 
Such measures are continually changing but they do give evidence of trends in the accretion or erosion of the relative values of pension payments. In the interests of fairness emphasis should be placed on both guidelines just as the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  looked fairly and squarely at aggregate unemployment figures and seasonally adjusted figures. Using such an approach it is fair to say that the increases in benefits have made a modest improvement in the relative position of pensioners and this is welcome. But I would not want the Minister to think that there is general agreement on this side of the House that it could be regarded as an adequate rate of pension. I believe the Government is entitled to whatever applause or approbation there may be because some increases have been effected to pension rates generally, but as I indicated a few moments ago, the general rate pension has not been increased since 1964, In my opinion it is wrong for this Government to wait for a general election before it is put in the position where it has to make an adjustment to the 100 per cent general rate of pension. 
Anyone who studies the report of the Repatriation Commission will see at once, as I have said in this Parliament on other occasions, that by a long way the greatest number of repatriation pensioners come within the category receiving between a 100 per cent general rate and a 10 per cent general rate pension. The general rate pension has now been increased by $2 a week. Whether a person on a 10 per cent pension would regard his 20c a week as a generous contribution on the part of this Government is a matter for private consideration. But at least the Government has been prodded into doing something. Year after year it has ignored the general rate pension despite the recommendations and the requests put to the Minister and the Government by the national executive of the Returned Services League of Australia. Despite the representations made and the points of view expressed by honourable members on this side of the House nothing has been done until we are faced with a general election. Of course, the Government reached the situation where it felt that unless something drastic was done in these matters, as in the social welfare programme, whatever possibility - it is a very remote possibility indeed - it had of recovering its lost ground would have gone completely. So some improvements have been made. Last year in dealing with the repatriation legislation I pointed out that the Minister had dealt with individual cases. 
In the second reading speech of the Minister on the Bill amending the Repat.ration Act there are many 'ifs' - if certain things happen or if certain repatriation pensioners happen to be in a certain position they will get an increase; if they are not in this category they will receive no increase at all or their increase will not be as great. I invite honourable members to look at that part of the second reading speech relating to war widows. The Minister said that there were 50,000 war widows in this country and then went on to say that some 20,000 of them - I think I am quoting his figures correctly - will be disadvantaged. Of this number, 30,000 will receive some increase and 20,000 will not get the same increase. I have no doubt that the Minister is referring there to the domestic allowance paid to some war widows. I understand from the Minister's figures that 97 per cent of war widows are in receipt of the domestic allowance. That means that for 3 per cent, which is not an insignificant number if there are 50,000 war widows, to use the Minister's figures, the only increase will be $1.75 a week. I suggest that the Minister will find himself in very great difficulty in attempting to dispute the figure I have quoted. Three per cent of them will receive an increase of $1.75 a week. 1 have said in this Parliament on many occasions and repeat it today - I believe it cannot be stressed often enough - that it is hard to justify a situation in this country where for a war widow whose husband lost his life in service or subsequently died as a result of war wounds and as a result of his service in the interests of this country, we are not able to provide a war pension that is at least 50 per cent of the minimum wage paid to a worker in this country. The war widow's rate today is still substantially less than 50 per cent of the minimum wage in Australia. What I and the Australian Labor Party have said on repatriation pensions generally is that the special rate pension, the totally and permanently incapacitated rate, should not be less than the minimum wage paid to workers in this country and that the general rate of pension should be approximately 50 per cent of the minimum wage. The same could bc said of the war widows rate. What I,on behalf of the Opposition, want to say today is that the Opposition would seek as a government to achieve a special rate pension which is at least the equivalent of what it was when this Government cam to office and equivalent to the minimum wage paid in Australia. It would be our objective to bring the other rates up to at least 50 per cent of the minimum wage paid to a worker. 
In the limited time that is left to me let me say that there are a number of matters in this legislation which will improve the Repatriation Act. The decision, though a somewhat belated one, of the Minister to adjust the pensions irrespective of rank and service is a notable achievement. It should have been done years ago. It will apply not only to those on a general rate pension, that is, a 100 per cent pension, but also to war widows. It should have been done years ago. As the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  said when he quite properly interjected, he put this matter to the Government during the debate on a Repatriation Bill in this House probably 8 or 9 years ago. 
The Government has now got around to it. The Government has completely ignored in many respects the submissions of the National Executive of the Returned Services League. I refer, for instance, to the pleas that organisation has made to the Government's members committee on repatriation and ex-servicemen, as well as those made to the Opposition, that the funeral allowance should be increased to at least$100. This allowance was increased from S30 to $50 back in 1953, which is nearly 20 years ago. Again, the request of the RSL has been ignored by the Government. I believe that the RSL made a submission to the Government that all returned servicemen from the First and Second World Wars and earlier wars whose disabilities might not have been due to war service should be treated in repatriation hospitals. The Labor Party accepts this view. The Government should move quickly, particularly in the case of Boer 
War veterans, of whom only a handful are left. We are rapidly reaching the stage where those who served in the First World War will be in much the same position. The numbers of these ex-servicemen are rapidly diminishing. How much would it cost a grateful country to provide medical and hospital treatment in repatriation hospitals for returned servicemen from the First World War whether or not their disabilities are war-caused? 
I have had little time to deal with the other matters covered by the Minister. I refer in particular to the extension of education benefits. I believe that this is a very desirable amendment and the Government is entitled to credit for it. But there are other matters with which I would have liked to deal. For example, I would have liked to say something about the rehabilitation and reconstruction training which was mentioned by the Minister. However, time will not permit me to deal with this important matter today. However, I look forward to dealing with that problem much further and, I hope, in a more positive and practical way when the estimates of the Department of Repatriation are before the Parliament. 
Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the 2 measures? There being no objection I will allow that course to be followed. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 

 Mr THOMPSON (Minister of Education); The answer is 
Science blocks. 
The following high schools are not expected to have science blocks established with Commonwealth funds at the commencement of the 1973 school year: 
Altona, Ararat, Bayswater, Beaufort, Bendigo, Bendigo G, Birchip, Blackburn S, Boort, Braybrook, Broadford, Brunswick G, Casterton, Castlemaine, Charlton, Coburg, Cohuna, Collingwood, Dandenong G, Daylesford T, Derrinallum, Dimboola M, Donald, Drouin, Eaglehawk, Euroa, Flemington G, Geelong, Golden Square, Hawkesdale, Heidelberg G, Heywood, J. H. Boyd, Kaniva, Koo-wee-rup, Kyabram, Lake Bolac, Lakeside, Lalor, La Trobe, MacRobertson G, Malvern G, Maroondah, Matthew Flinders G, Merbein, Mildura, Mirboo N, Moe, Monbulk, Monterey, Moorabbin, Mortlake, Mount Waverley, Myrtleford, Nathalia, Neerim S, Newborough, Northcote, Numurkah, Oberon, Orbost, Parkdale, Pascoe Vale G, Preston E, Rainbow, Richmond G, Robinvale, Rochester, Rutherglen, St Arnaud, Seymour, Shepparton, Shepparton G, Springvale, Stawell, Sunshine W, Terang, Thornbury, Timboon, Trafalgar, Upper Yarra, Vermont, Warracknabeal, Warragul, Wattle Park, Wedderburn, Westall, Williamstown G, Wodonga, Yallourn, Yarram, Yarrawonga, Yea. 
The above list does not include the schools where such projects are under construction and the new school where the science blocks will bc provided from State loan funds. 
The following technical schools are not expected to have received aid from Commonwealth funds for science blocks at the commencement of the 1973 school year: 
Bairnsdale, Balcombe A.A.S., Ballam Park, Ballarat S. of M., Batman Automotive Seh., Bendigo I.O.T., Box Hill T.C., Brighton, Broadmeadows, Broadmeadows West, Brunswick, Castlemaine T.C., Caulfield I.O.T., Cobden, Coburg, Collingwood T.C., Dandenong, Daylesford, Echuca, 
Emily McP. Coll., Footscray I.O.T., Frankston, Geelong, Gippsland I.O.A.E., Gordon I.O.T., Hamilton, Huntingdale, Jordanville, Kangaroo Flat, Knox, Lilydale, Maryborough T.C., Melb. Seh. Hair., Melb. Seh. Paint., Melb. Coll. Print., Melb. Coll. Textiles, Monterey, Moorabbin, Prahran C.O.T., Prahran T.S., Richmond T.C., R.M.I.T., Sandringham, Shepparton Sth., Sunshine Nth., Swinburne C.O.T., Swinburne T., Templestowe, Vic. Railways T.C., Warrnambool I.O.A.E., Warrnambool Nth., Wm. Angliss C.C. &amp; F.S., Wodonga, Wonthaggi. 
Libraries. 
The following high schools are not expected to have libraries established with Commonwealth funds at the commencement of the 1973 school year: 
Alexandra, Altona, Altona North, Ararat, Ashwood, Avondale Heights, Bacchus Marsh. Bairnsdale, Ballarat, Ballarat East, Ballarat Girls, Balmoral, Balwyn, Banyule, Bayswater, Beaufort, Beaumaris, Beechworth, Belmont, Benalla, Bendigo, Bendigo Girls, Bentleigh, Birchip, Blackburn, Blackburn South, Bonbeach, Boort, Boronia, Box Hill (Boys), Braybrook, Brighton, Broadford, Broadmeadows, Brunswick, Brunswick Girls, Buckley Park, Burwood, Canterbury Girls, Casterton, Castlemaine, Caulfield, Chadstone, Chandler, Charlton, Cheltenham, Cobram. Coburg, Cohuna, Colac, Collingwood, Corryong, Croydon, Dandenong, Dandenong Girls, Daylesford, Derrinallum, Dimboola, Donald, Donvale, Doveton, Drouin, Eaglehawk, Echuca, Edenhope, Eltham, Essendon, Euroa, Fitzroy, Fitzroy Girls, Flemington, Flemington Girls, Footscray, Footscray Girls, Foster, Geelong, Geelong North, Golden Square, Greythorn, Hamilton, Hampton, Hawkesdale, Healesville, Heidelberg, Heidelberg Girls, Heywood, Highett, Hopetoun, Horsham, Huntingdale, Hurstbridge, J.H. Boyd, Kaniva, Karingal, Kerang, Kew, Koonung, Koo-wee-rup, Korumburra, Kyabram, Kyneton, Lake Bolac, Lakeside, Lalor, La Trobe, Leongatha, Lyndale, Macleod, Maffra, Malvern Girls, Mansfield, Maribyrnong, Maroondah, Maryborough, Melbourne (Boys), Mentone Girls, Merbein, Merrilands, Mildura, Mirboo North, Moe, Monash, Monbulk, Monterey, Moorabbin, Moorleigh, Mooroopna, MordiallocChelsea, Moreland, Mortlake, Morwell, Mount Beauty, Mount Waverley, Murrayville, Murrumbeena, Murtoa, Myrtleford, Nathalia, Neerim South, Newborough, Newlands, Nhill, Noble Park, Norlane, Northcote (Boys), Norwood, Numurkah, Oakleigh, Oberon, Orbost, Ouyen, Paisley, Pakenham, Parkdale, Pascoe Vale Girls, Portland, Prahran, Preston East, Preston Girls, Queenscliff, Rainbow, Red Cliffs, Reservoir, Richmond, Richmond Girls, Ringwood, Robinvale, Rochester, Rosebud, Rushworth, Rutherglen, St Albans, St Arnaud, Sea Lake, Seymour, Shepparton, Shepparton Girls, Springvale, Stawell, Sunbury, Sunshine, Sunshine West, Swan Hill, Tallangatta, Terang, Thornbury, Timboon, Trafalgar, Traralgon, University, Upfield, Upper Yarra, Upwey, Vermont, Wangaratta, Warracknabeal, Warragul, Warrnambool, Wattle Park, Wedderburn, Werribee, Westall, Williamstown, Williamstown Girls, Wodonga, Wonthaggi, Yallourn, Yarram, Yarrawonga, Yea. 
The following technical schools are not expected to have received aid from Commonwealth funds at the commencement of the 1973 school year: 
Altona Nth, Ararat, Aspendale, Bairnsdale, Balcombe. Ballam Park, Ballarat S. of M., Ballarat Nth. Batman Automotive Sch., Benalla, Bendigo I.O.T., Blackburn, Box Hill T.C., Brighton, Broadmeadows, Broadmeadows West, Brunswick, Burwood, Castlemaine T.C., Caulfield I.O.T., Caulfield T.S., Clayton, Cobden, Coburg. Colac, Collingwood, Corio, Dandenong, Daylesford T. &amp; H. S., Doveton, Doveton Nth, Dromana, Echuca, Emily McP. Coll., Femtree Gully, Footscray I. O.T.. Frankston, Geelong, Geelong East, Geelong West, Gippsland I.O.A.E., Gordon I.O.T., Hamilton, Heidelberg, Horsham, Huntingdale, Jordanville, Kangaroo Flat, Knox, Lilydale, Macleod, Maryborough, Melb. Sch. Hair., Melb. Sch. Paint., Melb. Coll. Print., Melb. Coll. Textiles, Mildura, Monterey, Moorabbin, Mooroolbark, Morwell, Niddrie, Noble Park, Portland, Prahran C.O.T., Prahran T.S., Preston I.O.T., Preston T.S., Preston East, Richmond T.C., Ringwood, R.M.I.T., Sale, Sandringham, Sebastopol, Shepparton T.C., Shepparton Sth. St Albans, Stawell, Sunshine Nth, Swan Hill, Swinburne C.O.T., Swinburne T.S., Syndal, Templestowe, Tottenham, Traralgon, Vic. Railways T.C., Warragul, Warrnambool I.O.A.E., Warrnambool Nth, Watsonia, Wm. Angliss C.C. &amp; F.S., Williamstown, Wodonga, Wonthaggi, Yallourn. 
Order! I suggest that the honourable member for Sturt confine his remarks to the motion before the House. 
Although leave was not granted to make a statement, the honourable member for North Sydney may move that the paper be printed. 
Motion (by  Mr Graham)  agreed to: 
That the paper be printed. 
I suggest to the Minister for Social Services that the honourable member for Sydney also desires to seek leave to make a statement. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
At 6.14 p.m. the debate was adjourned to a later hour. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Giles)  adjourned. 
Order! Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
The Joint Committee on Publications, having power to initiate its own inquiries within its general terms of reference, resolved to inquire into the circumstances of the granting by the Post Office of the new contract. The Committee received written submissions from the interested parties and held a public hearing in Melbourne on 10th August. The bulk of the criticism levelled against the Post Office appeared to be firstly, that the tender conditions and requirements placed Edward H. O'Brien Pty Ltd and other small Australian tenderers at a disadvantage in competing for the contract against Directories (Australia) Pty Ltd which has large overseas financial backing. Secondly, that the Post Office in assessing the tenders had placed too much emphasis on the levels of minimum guarantees and projected sales, and should have given greater consideration to the percentage bids and proven ability of the tenderers to perform and meet obligations. Thirdly, that it was undesirable for economic and political reasons, to allow this activity to be in the control of overseas commercial interests, and that the Post Office should have given preference to Australian-owned tenderers. Fourthly, that by changing the contractor the Post Office was in some way responsible for the threatened unemployment of the Victorian employees of Edward H. O'Brien Pty Ltd. 
The postal unions also put forward the proposition that the Post Office should itself arrange the advertising for the classified telephone directories, that is, that the Post Office should undertake the work of the contract. The Post Office's view was that this type of function was more properly and satisfactorily performed on its behalf by private enterprise, there being more affinity between the work of selling pink pages advertising and a selling organisation in the private sector than there is between that function and the work of the Post Office in the public sector. The Post Office did not believe that there would be increased revenue and profit to the Post Office if it carried out the operation itself. It was the Post Office's view that private enterprise, being competitive, would be more likely to achieve the optimum result. 
The Committee investigated the criticism made of the Post Office and came to the following conclusions: Firstly, that the decision of the Post Office to award the contract to Directories (Australia) Pty Ltd was in accordance with accepted practice. Directories (Australia) Pty Ltd submitted the best tender in every respect, ft submitted the highest estimate of gross sales, offered the best overall percentage of gross sales as payment to the Commonwealth, offered the highest minimum guaranteed payment to the Commonwealth, and proposed the highest expenditure on sales promotion. Secondly, while smaller firms may be at some disadvantage when tendering for a contract, there is no evidence that in this tender Edward H. O'Brien Pty Ltd was placed at any special or unusual disadvantage by the tender requirements. 
Thirdly, on the question of foreign ownership and preference to Australian-owned industry, the Committee makes the observation that the Post Office tender board had not received any Government direction to give preference to Australian-owned tenderers. All resident Australian firms are treated in the same way and compete on exactly the same basis for Government business. Further, there is no evidence to suggest that the contractor's foreign ownership will be detrimental to the production of the directories. In the opinion of the Committee, however, whether the national interest would be better served if a degree of preference was given to Australianowned industry is a matter to which the Government should give its urgent attention. And finally, the Committee found that the dependence by a contractor on retaining one contract which is subject to periodic competition by public tender is an unfortunate aspect of the whole situation. There is no evidence to suggest, however, that the Post Office can be held responsible in any way for the hardship that may now be caused employees of Edward H. O'Brien Pty Ltd. But it can be envisaged that the same hardship will recur each time the contractor is changed if the contractor has been relying or specialising on the work of the contract. 
This is the first inquiry of an ad hoc nature by the Committee on its own initiative, carrying out its task of keeping under review the Commonwealth's publishing arrangements. The Committee's role in this inquiry has been purely investigatory; it did not set out to be an arbitrator in the dispute, but rather to investigate the validity of the criticism publicly made of the Post Office. The conclusions reveal that the Committee is satisfied that the arrangements for the pink pages advertising contract in Victoria were properly made by the Post Office in accordance with accepted practice. The Committee has not made any recommendations, but has observed that whether the national interest would be better served if a degree of pref erence was given to Australian-owned industry is a matter to which the Government should give its urgent attention. 
On behalf of the Committee, I thank the Australian Post Office and the other interested parties who made submissions to the Committee, and the witnesses who appeared before the Committee. As  Chairman,  I desire to thank the other members of the Committee for the work they have put into this inquiry, which has shown that the Committee has an important role to play as a watchdog over the Commonwealth's publishing arrangements. I move: 
That the report be printed. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Order! Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Does the Minister claim to have been misrepresented? 
On this point the Government has recently appointed Professor Muir . . . 
The 'Australian Financial Review' has reported that I said: 
On this point the Government has reluctantly appointed Professor Muir. 
I have checked with the journalist who reported the statement from the Press gallery. He reported it accurately. It was obviously a typographical mistake at the other end, but I think Lt should be corrected. 
Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering these 2 measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 
Order! The honourable member for Adelaide has spoken already. 
How is South Australia faring under its present administration? The Queensland Government has performed magnificently in developing its natural resources. However, I am concerned that the Federal Government should do more to help these operations. Queensland has natural resources and is endeavouring, with its small population, to develop industries. However, it is faced with industrial turbulence and irresponsible union attitudes. When confronted with this kind of activity how can Queensland produce and improve living standards? Queensland has the greatest resources of coal in Australia as anyone who has surveyed the coal situation will realise. We have contracted to sell coal to Japan, which is a great market for this product, but month after month there are strikes and delays. Ships come in but cannot load because of a local strike. At Gladstone we are developing an alumina refinery. Strikes involving some trivial matter arise and the who! project is affected. 
I think the Commonwealth Government must go further. People are tired of irresponsible strikes and the type of blackmail that arises. I believe we should have an emergency force - a task force - to call on in the event of an irresponsible strike by unions which will not recognise arbitration. We need a group of experts who can intervene, take over and maintain an industry. For the last 10 days the population of Brisbane has been inconvenienced by a shortage of petrol because a few technicians will not go to arbitration. They have decided to blackmail the community - to blackmail Queensland. This is a matter that requires serious consideration. We are witnessing irresponsibility in unions. We have seen it in the past. Our magnificent overseas airlines, Qantas Airways Ltd, was brought to its knees because pilots struck notwithstanding the magnificent conditions they enjoy. Such action by the pilots makes it difficult for our airline to compete with other world airlines. 
As I have said, in Australia we have this situation of irresponsibility and blackmail in particular situations. Our sugar crop is two-thirds harvested and we have a wonderful market on which to sell it but we are unable to do so because a few people hold up operations. Our farmers are suffering from drought and associated disabilities but they are affected because of the irresponsibility of unions. Again I ask the Commonwealth Government to consider what 1 have suggested. I believe it must intervene. I believe that we have had a degree of responsibility on the part of unions, but a left wing group is trying to blackmail the community. We abide by arbitration. That is the one way in which we can have a responsible attitude. Our society is becoming so complex today that we depend on a few key men to keep our vital industries going. If we are to remain at the whim of a few irresponsibles, God help Australia. Queensland will go ahead if we have a fair go from unionists - a fair go to realise on our great resources. I believe the Federal Government has to look at a new idea of a task force which will go anywhere where there is a blackmail operation by people who will not abide by arbitration. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Progress reported. 
Sitting suspended from 6.16 to 8 p.m. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Order! The right honourable member's time has expired. 
Sitting suspended from 1.4 to 2.15 p.m. 

Order! I suggest that the honourable member for Cunningham is going' a little wide of the subject. 
I have been constantly bombarded by these people. They would not care whether the cables were suspended from balloons, so long as they could get a service. They have not got it and they do not look like getting it until there is a change in representation of the area. That being so, I pay more than lip service to the concepts of town planning, the in thing today. It is long overdue. A very frugally minded government has, in many cases, again to quote the old saying, spoiled a good ship for a ha'p'orth of tar. lt costs very little extra to do as proposed, and in the long run it is better to have it done. There are other problems also in my section of the broken back constituency of Macarthur. It has been nothing but a political refuge because it has no community of interest,, communication and certainly no unity of representation, but it shortly will have that. On purely regional and climatic grounds there is special need for underground cables in such areas as Dapto, which has high rainfall and very high wind velocity. Of course, the bucolic honourable member for Macarthur knows that you spread political fertiliser where you will get the best result. For that reason you do not fertilise the least fertile parts of your electorate but those that are the best. That gives the quickest and greatest improvement in crop yield and also in political yield. On this occasion I leave the honourable member for Macarthur to the tender mercies of his former constituents. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Order! The Minister's time has expired. 
Is leave granted? There being' no objection, leave is granted. 
Motion - by leave - withdrawn. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill - by leave- taken as a whole and agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
-Yes. 
Order! I point out to the honourable member for Wills that when he spoke about the Citizen Air Force and the expenditure in relation to it he was within the bounds of the debate, as too were certain comments emphasising that point. The amount shown in the statement refers only to the expenditure for the previous financial year under the headings shown and have no relation to future expenditure. The remarks the honourable member is now making are more of a projected nature and are not related to the particular item of expenditure which is before the Committee at the moment. 
Motion (by  Mr Garland)  agreed to: 
That the following resolution be reported to the House: The Committee agrees with the statement for the year 1971-72 of heads of expenditure and the amounts charged thereto pursuant to section 36a of the Audit Act 1901-1969. 
Resolution reported; report adopted. 
Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the 4 measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection leave is granted. 
Bill read a first time. 

ls it the wish of the House to have a genera] debate covering the 3 measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 

Order! Is the amendment seconded? 
is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - The Government has decided not to accept recommendations made by the Board in relation to magnet winding wire, firstly in the report just tabled and secondly in subsequent correspondence between the  Chairman  of the Board and the Minister for Trade and Industry. A copy of this correspondence is tabled with the report itself. Test applications of the duty formula recommended by the Board in its report resulted, in several instances, in negative duties and in other cases duties of a very low order. The recommendations therefore did not offer a practical means of providing protection for the industry and the Minister for Trade and Industry asked the Board to recommend an alternative duty formula. 
In the event these alternative recommendations have also presented difficulties in that further test calculations showed variations in the impact of the duties proposed in the Board's initial and alternative recommendations. In considering possible courses of action the Government has borne in mind the problems outlined above and, as noted by the  Chairman  of the Board in the correspondence, the fact that the information already available to the Board is now some 3 years out of date. In the circumstances the Government has decided not to accept the Board's recommendations but to retain the existing duties, and refer magnet winding wire back to the Board for a new inquiry and report. An appropriate reference will be sent to the Board in the near future. 

Order! The honourable members time has expired. 
Is leave granted? 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKERLea ve is not granted. 
I am  President  of Tingira HM Branch of the Australian Labor Party and one night before the Preselection for Shortland  Mr Morris  approached me to make a Statutory Declaration to the effect that certain members of the above Branch had not been present at meetings as shown in the ALP attendance book.  Mr Morris  said there would be a re-Ballot. 

 Mr Morris offered me $500 to swear this false information in Statutory Declaration form.  Mr Morris  also told me I would receive help from other members of Tingira Hts  Branch and others outside the Branch and the money, would be a great help as both my wife and I are Invalid Pensioners. 
After  Mr Morris  and myself finished the discussion I refused, because all signatures in the attendance book as far as I was concerned are true and correct and had attended as the attendance book shows. 
The next day I informed the Secretary of the Branch and when we talked it over it was decided to make a Statutory Declaration on this matter. 
This happened at the Community Hall after a meeting held in December 1971. I heard of the re-Ballot at 11.30 p.m. this night.  Mr Morris  referred to in this Declaration is one of the Candidates in the Preselection Ballot for Shortland. 
There is another declaration which I will not read in full. It is from a  Mr Parsons  and is in statutory form. It also refers to attempts at false swearing. Apparently these matters were brought before the Australian Labor Party, because I have here  a  copy of a letter which  Mr Johnson  sent to the State  President  of the Australian Labor Party (New South Wales Branch), Sussex Street, Sydney, on 8th March 1972. It is a letter to  Mr Ducker.  He says: 
Members of this Branch have been threatened, several have been alleged to have accepted bribes, others intimidated by Union officials, in an effort to have us annihilated. 
He mentions a statutory declaration which, I imagine, is the same one I have already read, although of course I cannot guarantee that. On 10th March 1972 a letter was written by  Mr Ron  Jones, the secretary of the Tingira Heights Branch of the Australian Labor Party to  Mr Westerway.  That letter also alleges some serious matters. I will not go into them. Names are mentioned. But it is quite obvious that the New South Wales Executive of the Australian Labor Party - I am not talking about a little branch but about the main executive of the Australian Labor Party - knew what was going on. 
Subsequently a broadcast was made in which  Mr Donnelly  took part. I have here what I am told is a transcript of it. I cannot vouch for this because I did not hear the broadcast. The interviewer, a  Mr Tony  Joyce, said: 
I have been told by one Labor official that there is a pile of statutory declarations concerning Shortland about this high. We have in our possession photostat documents which purport to be part of this alleged pile. This one claims, for example:  'Mr X  offered $500 to swear this false information.' This one says: 'I was informed that I would be rewarded if I signed a document in relation to falsifying records.' 

 Mr Donnelly said: 
Well, this has been going on - innumerable statutory declarations. It is coming to the stage where statutory declarations are not worth the paper they are written on, because you have one by one particular candidate or his supporters and one by  other candidates countermanding that particular statutory declaration. 
There are other matters in this which I will not go into, but there are allegations of Communist Party infiltration in this matter. Of course, I cannot guarantee this but I think it is worth investigating. The documents will be on the table of the House and honourable members will be able to see for themselves the details. 
Congratulations on your selection. 
He was subsequently unseated, as honourable members will remember- 
Am looking forward to your arrival in the Parliament. 
It was signed 'Gough Whitlam'. I now lay the papers on the table. 
First of all may I join with other honourable members in congratulating  Mr Speaker  on his appointment and the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  on his appointment as  Deputy Speaker  and  Chairman  of Committees. As one who served a record term in this Parliament as  Deputy Speaker  and  Chairman  of Committees I know some of the responsibilities, joys, trials and tribulations of such a position and I am sure that the gentlemen who have been elected to these 2 high offices have the good wishes of all honourable members in this House. I am confident that under their guidance the principles and standards of this House will be sustained. 
I also extend my congratulations to honourable members who have made their maiden speeches in this House. This is something which we all experience. Therefore, when a new member makes his maiden speech he knows he has with him the thoughts of all those who have had the experience or are to have it. Having listened to my Australian Country Party colleagues who have made their maiden speeches, I am confident that the Country Party will not suffer politically through the retirement of those members who are not with us in this new Parliament. 
The honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  said that the last election was a turning point in the history of Australia. I think we would all agree with that. But perhaps the only difference of opinion between us is as to what that turning point will mean for Australia. I believe it will be a turning point in our history that the people who voted for the present Government will regret. I would remind Government supporters that they did not win the last election; the previous Government lost it. It has been said that it is very seldom that Oppositions win government, but governments lose them, and I think that is perfectly true. Having looked at the political situation, we must confess that the previous Government did everything it could to lose the election. The Speech of  His Excellency,  the Governor-General, was an interesting one. It is important, of course, because it conveys the expression of the legislative program of the new Government. A great deal of the Governor-General's remarks were presented by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in the election campaign. I think the difficulty and the problems which will confront Australia will be in the implementation of some of these policies and the continuation of policies that are to the benefit not only of certain sections but also of the whole community. 
I wish now to comment on the PostmasterGeneral's Department. I hope I misunderstood - I will put it that way - but the PostmasterGeneral seemed to imply when replying to a question from this side of the House and in a statement that he made during the adjournment debate last Thursday that he felt it was not fair to ask people, particularly in the metropolitan area, to contribute to works and development carried out in country areas by the Postmaster-General's Department. I think that if we look at the situation we will find that people in the metropolitan area surely should be prepared to accept some of the responsibilities for the extension and development of postal and communication services in country areas. I know it is sometimes said that the telephones are essential in metropolitan areas. I do not think anyone would deny that that is fair. But let us face the fact that in some isolated country areas a telephone can mean in many instances the difference between life and death. 
I agree with the Postmaster-General that money used for extension work by the Postmaster-General's Department should be taken out of consolidated revenue. The Postmaster-General may rest assured that this will be one of the things I will continue to advocate, as I did when I was a supporter of the previous Government. As a member of the Opposition I will be interested in this matter, because I believe that more work must be done in country areas and that there must be within the Postmaster-General's Department a greater concentration of effort for development and progress in these areas. I do not deny that progress and development has gone on. But in some areas, particularly in the northwestern part of my electorate, the situation has arisen where someone who has looked after a post office for many years is now not able to perform these duties and as a result in many instances the area suffers from the lack of telephonic communication. As I have said, in the last Parliament I advocated further financial assistance from consolidated revenue to provide for extensions in this field. I will continue to advocate this proposition. 
The Governor-General's Speech contains many matters that relate to the policies of the Labor Party. I am not quite sure whether I agree with some of the newspapers which express the view that the Opposition made a mistake in bringing forward a motion of no confidence in the Government so early in the life of this Parliament. Surely if something happens, whether it be in the first week, the first year or the last year of the Government's occupation of the Treasury bench, and the Opposition feels that it is of such moment as to justify a no confidence motion, the time which the Government has occupied the Treasury bench is completely irrelevant. I believe that the motion of no confidence was relevant and important. I believe it was justified, because to my mind the action of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in the sphere of Australia's international obligations weakened our position internationally. Of course, I believe that that no confidence motion should have been carried. 
Another matter I wish to raise concerns compulsory unionism. It appears strange that a government or a party that has been so vehemently opposed to compulsory service in the armed Services should advocate compulsion so far as unionism is concerned. If an individual feels strongly about having to join a union, I believe the fairest Way of dealing with the matter is that he may donate to charity the contribution he would have made to a union. Surely it is a little unreasonable for the Government to pursue a policy of compulsory unionism because, let us face it, in the political situation in which we find ourselves - and I do not object to this - funds from the unions go towards assisting the Labor Party to gain the Treasury bench or to assist the Labor Party in the political field. But, I think it is absolutely wrong to a$k someone who has a particular political point of view to contribute finance that will assist and opposite political view. As I have said, I believe that some way should be found to overcome this situation. 
I would now like to make a few comments about the  35-hour  week. Honourable members will remember the comments that were made before the election that a  35-hour  week would be introduced only in industries that could afford the financial implications and complications of a  35-hour  week. I believe that the judgment of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission after its inquiry into a  35-hour  week in the Electricity Commission should be carefully considered by all people.. What that judgment really said was that there were certain developments and advances so far as the mechanics of the industry were concerned that gave a benefit to the industry as well as lowering of the production cost. The Commission said that where those improvements in conditions and production did not create redundancy or any difficulties so far as employment was concerned it felt that those benefits should be passed on to the whole of the community rather than merely to that section of industry even though it had contributed to the improvement. I believe that this judgment should be carefully considered not only by unionists but by all people. I think that certain sections within the trade union movement are losing sight of the fact that people work not only for the advantage of their own group but for the advantage of all. If this principle is lost and the values of the arbitration system are lost - and there has been some criticism of the arbitration system - then I believe that the Labor movement and the trade union movement will be put back  100  years. Surely a benefit should be a benefit for all and not only for a few or perhaps even the strong groups within the trade union movement. 
I believe that where an industry .does get the advantage of a benefit, that benefit should be passed on for the benefit of all. An exam-, pie of such benefits can be found in the section of industry which employs tanker drivers and members of the Electricity Commission staff. If benefits in these  2  sections of industry were passed on to the whole of the community there would be a reduction iti the price of petrol and, electricity. If this happened those members of the unions employed in these industries would get the benefit as would the whole of the community. As , I have said, I believe the .statement and the decision of the Commission in regard to a  35-hour  week in the Electricity Commission should be studied closely! I believe that benefits should flow on to those who are in industries which are facing complexities and difficulties, such as the rural producers in my electorate. 
I want to make some comment regarding primary production and rural industry. The rural industries have received some benefit at the moment because of. increased prices and the improved conditions in the marketing abroad of some of our products. But let us also appreciate that those within the sphere of primary industry faced a recession ever many many months. The benefits that they will gain from increased prices will in many cases not overcome the difficulties and the setbacks they had during the period of recession. People should give very careful consideration to this before they start talking about how prosperous are all the primary industries at the present time and- how those engaged in the primary industries have benefited. 
The matter of revaluation and devaluation is tied up more importantly with our export industries than perhaps with anything else in this country. To my mind it is most unfortunate that the Government does not appear to appreciate the problems at this given time and seems to have overlooked the situation faced by our export industries although it is not so long ago that our rural industries were suffering from a recession. When my Party and the Liberal Party were in office I recall criticism of certain actions taken by that Government particularly in relation to the wool industry and perhaps to a lesser degree the wheat industry. I point out that the events of today have proved that the actions taken by that Government in respect of those 2 major industries were correct. I believe that we have to face up to the fact that irrespective of industrial progress in Australia we are still vitally dependent upon primary production for our export earnings and for the stability of our economy. Because of this I. regret that it appears that this Government has not given due consideration to assistance to primary industry. 
I make one comment in regard to a matter mentioned by my colleague the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe).  I refer to the absurdity of the action taken by waterside workers in placing a ban on the export of meat from Australia because the price of meat in metropolitan areas was high. Anybody with any understanding of this matter would appreciate that a ban on the export of meat would have no effect whatsoever on the price of meat and that the only result that such action could achieve would be to set back beef production to a stage from which, in the long term, this section of the industry might never recover. 
A lot has been said in regard to Australia's international relations. I referred to this matter when speaking on the motion of no confidence moved by the Opposition against the Government last week. Several points have already been made on this subject. I feel that unfortunately, because of the irresponsible statements which were made not merely by members of Parliament but by Ministers who hold responsible positions, we have lost a tremendous amount of ground which the previous Government held in its international relations. The statements made were of no advantage to the situation in which Australia finds herself on the international scene. Perhaps the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has learnt something from his recent visit overseas. It is easy to make within the domestic scene pronouncements covering a certain sphere but when you go out into the international sphere you find that the statements which you have made will not be so easy to put into practice. I believe that in his latest visit overseas the Prime Minister learnt a lesson. 
I have said in this House before that I do not always agree with decisions of the United States but let us face the fact that this country certainly needs the United States more thanthe United States needs Australia. Whilst I do not agree with everything that the United States has done I believe that we have to admit that the Western World - I do not like using that phrase but perhaps it covers the ground - owes a tremendous amount to the United States for the burden it has accepted as far as economic assistance and assistance in other respects is concerned since the close of the Second World War. To my mind we should have some appreciation of the contribution which has been made by the United States. I was always amazed at the criticism levelled at the previous Government by honourable members opposite when they were on the Opposition benches. They used to say that we were slavishly following United States policy. There is one thing that I think we on this side can say and that is that certainly when the previous Government was in office it did not follow the United States so slavishly and without question as this Government has followed communist China, the communist section in Vietnam and apparently other communist and left wing orientated countries. There has been a subservience to communist China by this present Government far beyond anything which the previous Government might have done in relation to the United States. I hope that this will not continue. I look forward to this Government, having learnt a lesson and with a full appreciation of its responsibility in the international field, enhancing the prestige that Australia gained under the previous Government. 
I ask the Minister for Education whether he can give the House information regarding progress in moves to introduce legislation to assist pre-school kindergartens, especially in regard to the payment of salaries to the teaching staff. 
I do not want to go over the ground covered by my colleagues the honourable members for Kennedy  (Mr Katter),  Curtin  (Mr Garland)  and Boothby  (Mr McLeay).  But I want to make one comment in regard to Australia's participation in international affairs. I remember not so very long ago hearing in this House the present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  make comments about  Sir Robert  Menzies, who was the Prime Minister of that day, in regard to what the present Prime Minister called  Sir Robert's  intrusion into the Suez crisis. Of course, the implication was that the then Prime Minister did not have a full appreciation of the situation in the international field. I think that the present Prime Minister will realise and appreciate that international affairs are not perhaps as easy as he might have thought when he was on the Opposition side of this House. The Prime Minister's adventure in the field of international relations did not succeed to a very marked degree during his recent visit to Indonesia and in the comments he made in regard to the position of Thailand. I hope that these events might be a lesson to him and that in further comments that he makes about Australia's position in the international field he might give a great deal more deep and full consideration to some of the problems that exist. 
The comments of my colleagues the honourable members for Kennedy and Curtin in regard to the direction of our foreign policy should be noted by all Australians. In recent months the Government has leant very considerably towards the Left. As has been said, comments that have been made by responsible Ministers - and I use the term 'responsible' advisedly - in regard to our relationship with the United States and in regard to actions of the United States are certainly not comments that should be made by responsible Ministers. I recall that it has been stated by at least one of the members of the present Government that we should break the Australian-American alliance. 
At this stage I do not want to say a great deal about the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation but I must confess that, having listened to some of the comments from the Government side and from the Senate, I feel that many questions were left unanswered by the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy).  I mention also that ASIO has been a target for those with left wing sympathies. It has been part of a policy of the left wing within the Australian Labor Party to destroy ASIO and to discredit it both in Australia and overseas. While I do not want to make any dogmatic comment, I believe that many questions have been left unanswered by the Attorney-General. 
Let me refer now to the PostmasterGeneral's Department. Some of the comments made by the Postmaster-General  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  have caused a degree of concern to people in my electorate and also to people in other country areas. I want to be fair to the Postmaster-General. I appreciate that he has only recently taken over this portfolio and therefore it will take some time for him to gain a full appreciation of the situation within his Department. As I have said before, more money should be made available from the Consolidated Revenue Fund to the PostmasterGeneral's Department. I emphasise that point. But at the moment there appears to be a reluctance in the Postmaster-General's Department to appreciate the need for telephonic communications in country areas. In one reply I received from the Postmaster-General he said: 
The more liberal conditions of the policy governing the provision of country telephone services introduced in August 1970 has attracted increasing demand for new services, and this work must be integrated with area development programs as resources become available. 
I believe that resources must be made available. There is not much point in bringing in a policy unless the Government is able to put it into effect. Because of this policy, people in country areas are, in some circumstances, not receiving as effective a service as they were receiving before the policy was brought into being. 
Let me give an illustration. Certain private lines are providing people with telephone services. As the PMG's Department moves into the area to take over those lines, no work is done on the lines except by the PMG's Department. Therefore I believe that money will have to be made available so that the work in these areas can be done expeditiously. Let me refer also to the hours of operation of country telephone services. In country areas, because people have to go away from their homes to perform their work, in many instances if a telephone service closes at 6 o'clock as much as li or 2 hours of a farmer's time are wasted while he goes inside to make a telephone call. I believe that, wherever possible, the service should be extended to 8 o'clock. I point out that a call to Sydney made after 6 p.m. costs 57 cents as against 86 cents if it is made before 6 o'clock. This proposal should be of considerable advantage to the primary producer, to people living in country areas. I hope that work in country areas will not be delayed because of the inquiry that is being instigated. I hope that such work will be expedited. 
To my mind, the answer given this afternoon by the Postmaster-General to a question relating to official post offices was not satisfactory. Reports that many official post offices - one of the figures given was 300  -  are to be declassified are causing a degree of concern. In his reply to a question the PostmasterGeneral said that the previous Government had a policy of closing down some non-official post offices. In this House and in other places I have opposed the closing down of these country post offices. I was successful in keeping many of them in my electorate open. I know that representations made by other honourable members were also successful in keeping other post offices open. I am sure that the Postmaster-General will find that honourable members now have exactly the same attitude as they had to earlier suggestions of closing down non-official post offices. 
I want to turn to the matter of export incentives. I hope that consideration will be given to retaining export incentives and that no steps will be taken either to reduce or to remove them. It has been said that there is no need to give concentrated attention to maintaining our exports. I think that the export incentive payments should be maintained. A report I have reads as follows: 
The incentives were a major element in the vehicle building companies' decisions to procure vehicles from one or another source. To remove the incentives would be to alter the economics and thus the options available to the vehicle building companies. 
There was no certainty that the vehicle builders would continue to use Australia as a source of supply of CKD packs for assembly in other countries if the incentives were removed. 
I think that if this matter were to be investigated it would be seen that as many as 4,000 or 5,000 jobs of Australian workers would be in jeopardy. So I feel that the Government must give attention to retaining the export incentives. In my humble opinion, the arguments against doing so have been amazing. The report to which I have referred said that the opposition to the system was based on the following: 
The budget position involved a substantial and growing deficit and this could be partly cured by removing the export incentive system. There were arguments in favour of the money involved being diverted to the achievement of the Labor Party's social objectives. Australia's current favourable balance of trade made it no longer desirable to encourage exports of manufactured products. 
In my opinion, none of those 3 arguments against maintaining our export incentives has any validity. 
I want to make some comment about devaluation. The other night the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan)  referred to an increase in prices since the alteration of the value of the Australian dollar. What he did not say was that if there had not been a change in the value of the Australian dollar the primary producer would have been receiving an even greater amount. I should like to emphasise something that I mentioned in this House only a short while ago, the fact that many people now talk about the primary producer receiving a great return for his product, that he has now literally overcome the problems and difficulties and, to use an expression that has been used many times in this country, he is now again home on the pig's back or the sheep's back. I pointed out on that particular occasion, and I emphasise it again, that what the primary producer is now receiving does not make up for the lean and difficult times that he went through a short while ago. 
I should like to refer to a comment made by the Bank of New South Wales concerning the up-valuation of the Australian dollar. In its March 'Review' the Bank of New South Wales argued that the currency move could have been an over-kill method of bringing the balance of payments back into equilibrium. But in the same article the Bank said the Government's action was fortuitously justified after the event by further substantial price rises for wool and stronger demand for other exports. That was certainly not a factor related to the attitude of the Government. I emphasise the point I made earlier by reading a further extract from that report. The report said: 
Australia's export earnings were subject to violent fluctuations - and it was a rare year when there was all round strength among rural exports as in 1972. A turnabout in rural prices could bring the current account back into deficit as rapidly as it went into surplus. The subsequent 10 per cent revaluation of the United States dollar presented Australia with another policy challenge. 
Anybody who has any association with the primary producer knows that there are many factors concerning the primary producer's product and work over which he has absolutely no control. Fluctuations in his earnings in many instances are caused by things outside his control. 
I should like to mention one other matter. I refer to the advertising of drugs on radio and television. I note that the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  has been reported as saying that he would like to see the banning of all advertising of aspirin on radio and television. This appears to me to be an amazing contradiction. Although some members of the present Government say we should ban the advertising of aspirin because it is harmful, other members of the Government say that people should be allowed to smoke marihuana. I think the smoking of marihuana is completely and absolutely, beyond any shadow of doubt, a far greater danger to the community than any aspirin would be. Suggestions have been made that drug manufacturers lack a sense of responsibility and are interested only in selling their product so that they may make money out of it, that they do not have any regard to the benefit to the community. I should like to read a letter which was circulated by a drug company concerning this matter. I think this reflects a lack of responsibility which sometimes is shown by the news media. This letter from the drug firm states: 
Following lay Press reports on Saturday 24.2.73, we, the manufacturers of- 
The name of the drug is then stated - are concerned with the possible abuse and misuse of ... by young persons deliberately seeking hallucinatory effect. The reporting of full details of the trade name, availability through pharmacy, price and even the number of tablets required for a trip may encourage experimentation by teenagers who would not normally even consider die use of known hallucinogenic drugs. Although this drug and derivatives have been dispensed and recommended for allergies and sickness by pharmacies for 20 years, the author suggests that it must now be considered whether these should be restricted . . . 
The letter goes on to state: 
The company believes that such decision is very important to the community and cannot be rushed. We therefore take the unusual action of requesting you, the pharmacist, to remove . . . from open shelves to the security of the dispensary to be handled only by qualified staff. This, we believe, will minimise the possibility of misuse of our product following the unfortunate Press release identifying generic and trade names. 
I think that letter shows 2 things, firstly, a sense of responsibility by the drug companies and, secondly, a reminder to the media that they should have some consideration of the full effects of certain matters before they report them. I have made no bones in this House before about being associated with both a radio station and a television station, but I believe that this matter shows that in many instances we can rush into things without giving full consideration to the effects of what we are doing. In regard to the banning of the advertising on television, radio or even the Press of aspirin and various beneficial medicines such as that, I believe that very careful consideration should be given before action is taken. 
First of all let me refer to the comments made by the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  in relation to the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  who was the Minister for Foreign Affairs in the previous Government. There is really no need for anyone in this House to defend the performance of the honourable member for Parramatta while he was Minister for Foreign Affairs because he not only upheld the position and the prestige of Australia; he also added to his own prestige and stature both at home and abroad while he was the Minister. I support the proposal before the House. I am delighted to see it presented particularly so early in this Parliament. I congratulate the Government on the moves it has made to establish the committee. 
I think that the proposal contains improvements on the arrangements for the previous Committee. It is now some little while since I was a member of that Committee. During the term of my membership, unfortunately the Committee consisted of only members of Government parties. That was during the time Lord Casey was the Minister for External Affairs and the honourable member for Chisholm, the late  Sir Wilfrid  Kent Hughes, was the  Chairman  of that Committee. For a period of time I had the privilege of being the Vice  Chairman.  I realise the value of the work that was done by that Committee, but I always felt that it was handicapped by the fact that it comprised only members of the Government parties. I think that in the situation at the moment there may be some slight doubt about the matters to be referred to the proposed committee. I notice that matters may be referred by the Minister for Foreign Affairs - this was the case previously - and now by the Minister for Defence or by resolution of either House of the Parliament. I think that this will be of tremendous value. One of the basic advantages is that members of the Parliament will be taken out of the political atmosphere of this chamber. This is evidenced in the Joint Committee of Public Accounts, the Joint Committee on Public Works and a number of other joint parliamentary committees in which members get together in a committee of the Parliament divorced from the political atmosphere of this chamber and I think that they achieve a great deal more than would be achieved if that same discussion and consideration were held in this chamber. I am delighted to see the proposal as presented. I think the Committee can only work to the advantage of both this Parliament and Australia. I do not expect complete and absolute unanimity to be achieved in discussions within that Committee, but there will be certain basic foundations upon which all members of the Committee will be able to agree. I know, from my experience on joint committees that sometimes a difference of opinion has not been between members of opposing parties; there has been an alliance of members of opposing parties relating to the matters which have been under consideration. With other members of my Party, I am delighted with the resolution for the formation of this Committee. I, too, look forward to it working not only to the advantage of members of the Committee and to the advantage of Parliament, but also to the advantage of Australia. 
Order! Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The documents read as follows) - 

<graphic href="083131197304035_39_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="083131197304035_40_2.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="083131197304035_41_3.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="083131197304035_41_4.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="083131197304035_41_3.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="083131197304035_41_4.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="083131197304035_42_5.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="083131197304035_42_6.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="083131197304035_43_7.jpg"></graphic>

The Committee was assisted in its task by the then Chief Electoral Officer for the Commonwealth,  Mr L.  Ainsworth, who also obtained the views of the Commonwealth Electoral Officer and the SurveyorGeneral for each 0f the States. The preponderance of that opinion was clearly in favour of retaining the marginal allowance at the existing one-fifth fraction. 
The report continues: 
Undoubtedly, it would be easier to apply a onefifth margin than to work within the limits of a onetenth marginal allowance from quota. Nevertheless, the Committee is satisfied that the problems of applying a one-tenth margin are quite manageable. 
The Committee members did say that but, of course, they were not the experts in the field and therefore their opinion would not be as sound as that of  Mr Ainsworth  and those of the Commonwealth Electoral Officers in the States. In considering the desirability of a 10 per cent tolerance instead of a 20 per cent tolerance surely the Minister must have taken section 25 of the Commonwealth Electoral Act into account. It provides that whenever one-quarter of the divisions of the States are out of balance - that is one-fifth above or one-fifth below the quota - a redistribution may be held. So it is clear why those people who had the closest working knowledge of the problem - the Electoral Commissioners - favour the 20 per cent margin instead of the 10 per cent margin which is provided in this Bill. 
In regard to the third point I raised initially, that is the proposed guidelines for the Commissioners, in 1965 the Government amended the Commonwealth Electoral Act to set clearer guidelines to assist the Distribution Commissioners in their task. This was done to achieve uniformity in the redistribution process between the States. These amendments have had a far and widespread effect on the outcome of redistributions, not simply favouring the rural areas, but taking into account the great spread of population and the growth of population in the marginal city areas. To remove from consideration such factors as area, remoteness and sparsity of population is flying in the fact of commonsense and, to use the Minister's own words is making a mockery of democracy'. Only  a  man who represents an electorate of 3 or  4  square miles could fail to understand the difficulty of representing people in large electorates where distance, remoteness and sparsity of population make the task frustrating and difficult. Only those who have experienced the privations of remoteness, the tyranny of distance and the loneliness of the outback really understand the need for these factors to be taken into account when drawing boundaries. 
The guidelines contained in the Bill completely wipe aside these considerations leading to a situation whereby those already large electorates like Kennedy, Kalgoorlie, Grey, Maranoa and Darling could well be fixed well over the quota. In other words the Commissioners may be forced to make them even larger by adding people from other communities to an electorate where in fact they may not have a community of interest. If ever there was a half baked, half cocked Bill that shows complete contempt for the great outback pioneers of this nation, this is the masterpiece. It is an incredible hotpotch of inpractical notions, unfair contentions that would lead us to a crazy situation of having one redistribution on top of another. Neither does it achieve one vote one value as a principle, nor does it offer a practical workable proposal to Distribution Commissioners in a time when population mobility can cause enormous fluctuations from place to place in 12 months. Nor does it treat with understanding and sympathy the problems of people living in the remote areas of Australia. 
Other honourable members have spoken about New Zealand. It is futile to compare Australia with New Zealand or with any other country which has so vastly dissimilar characteristics. The Electoral Act as it stands acknowledges these facts. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
 Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation in regard to remarks made by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones). 
I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent members of the Opposition from making statements in relation to the remarks of the Prime Minister regarding their association as puppets with people outside this House. 
I have not risen to my feet in this discussion today regarding the remarks of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  because of the position which I formerly held in the House. I realise the difficulties confronting the Chair when a situation like this arises in the House. Quite frankly, I think that today the Prime Minister has continued to evade, as he did on Tuesday and again yesterday, questions that have been asked by members of the Opposition in relation to a very important matter. I believe that the incident today - the naming of my colleagues, the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon),  the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  and the honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes)  - has brought the standing of this Parliament down to a level that I have not seen before. 
I preface my question to the Prime Minister by saying that the honourable gentleman will recall that one of the reasons for rejecting a royal commission or judicial inquiry into what has become known as the ASIO affair was that it would, to use his own words, destroy the last vestiges of whatever reputation the previous Government and surviving members of it might possibly have. I now ask: If his statement is correct should he not, as a responsible person and as the head of this Parliament, pursue this matter because of the importance of an Opposition in our parliamentary system and because the Australian public is entitled to be acquainted with all the facts? 
I move: 
That so much of Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the debate on this motion continuing. 
I regret that there is a necessity for my having to move this motion, but I do so because I believe that this House should not leave on the notice paper a motion which is, in the strictest sense, a censure of  Mr Speaker.  This matter should not be left in abeyance. I do not give a continental hoot who moved the original motion or from which side he comes. I think it is a bad thing for this House to have this motion on the notice paper. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! Is the motion seconded? 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
It was interesting to hear the remarks of the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Doyle)  in the adjournment debate this evening because I want to mention some matters at this stage that I believe should cause concern to thinking Australian people. First of all there is the failure of the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  to pass on to the Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Whitlam)  certain information. I do not think that, from the very moment that the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation matter was first raised in this House until the present stage, the Attorney-General in the Senate or the Prime Minister in this House have answered questions to the satisfaction of either the people of Australia or those of us who have asked the questions. The Prime Minister must think that the people of Australia are very naive because when he was excusing the fact that the Attorney-General had not passed on the information he said that both the Yugoslav Ambassador and the Attorney-General thought that the other would pass on the information. One might have believed that for a brief period of time, but after one or two days when there had been no report and no comment about it in the news media surely the Attorney-General must have then been aware of the fact that this information had not been given to the Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs. I believe that with the Prime Minister holding 2 portfolios it was of greater importance that he should have received this information. 
There are 3 other matters which I believe should cause concern to the people of Australia. The first is the visit to this country of a delegation from North Vietnam and the Vietcong. As I said in the Anzac Day oration, this visit is a disgrace to Australia. I make no apology for saying that and I make no apology for thinking that. J believe that it is a disgrace to Australia. Some people say that once a war is ended the quicker the reconciliation the better. 1 would remind anyone who puts forward that argument as justification for this visit that a member of this House, who is now a senior Minister in the Government, returned from a visit to Cambodia and said that the attacks in Cambodia were naked aggression by the North Vietnamese and the Vietcong. 1 believe that as that was true at that stage it is still true today. Yet we are nowallowing into this country the visitors to whom 1 have referred, and they have been within the precincts of this Parliament House. Frankly, I never thought that I would see anything like that happen in this House. 1 believe, as I said, that these are matters that should cause us concern. 
I now refer to the action of the PostmasterGeneral  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  in regard to the Rhodesian Information Centre in Sydney. I will not offer any argument at the moment in relation to the establishment of this Centre. I believe that there are 2 points of consequence in this matter. The first is that a State government, a sovereign power, said that the Centre was entitled to be there, to be manned and to put out statements and comments. 
I would have thought that the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Sherry)  might have had more thought for this country and its freedoms. What about the rights of people or a country at least to put forward their arguments in support of their case? As 1 say, I do not want to put forward any argument in regard to the position in Rhodesia or the case for Rhodesia. 1 believe that the interference by the Postmaster-General was a censorship in a political field which is dangerous to this country. Fortunately the process of democracy was put into being and, of course, the matter was taken to the courts. The third aspect of this matter - and let the honourable member for Franklin answer it - is that, although the action was not proceeded with, the Postal Workers' Union said that it would refuse to deliver mail to Opposition senators, because the senators did not do something that the postal workers wanted or had done something with which the postal workers disagreed. Again, this is political censorship of the worst type, lt would mean that if any member of this House or a senator in the other place did something with which a particular group did not agree that group could take action to militate against the freedom of that member. 
I believe this matter should be viewed with serious concern by the news media of this country. I. believe it is a matter to which people like Rupert Murdoch and others who have been great friends of the present Government and who gave it great assistance to obtain office should give serious consideration. It could be a possibility that if any newspaper or any publishing group did something that was against what this Government felt was in its interest the Government, through the 
Postmaster-General's Department, could immediately interfere with the publication of that newspaper. The same thing could also apply to radio and television. As I say I believe that these are matters to which the people of Australia must give very serious consideration now. 
A great deal has been said about the freedoms in our country. It is my right disagree, as I do on numerous occasions, with commentators, newspaper writers and all those who are engaged in the propaganda media. It is my right to stand in this place and say that I disagree with them. But in the ultimate any interference with or political censorship of any of these organisations would be to the danger and detriment of this country. I believe that the  4  things which I have mentioned are an indication of what we said during the election campaign would be the dangers facing this country if the Australian Labor Party were ever put on the treasury bench. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Social Security. The honourable gentleman's predecessor informed me towards the end of last year that it was intended to establish in Taree a district office of the Department. Can the Minister inform me of the progress that has been made towards the establishment of such an office? What is the present position? 
Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the 6 measures? There being no objection, 1 will allow that course to be followed. 
I wish to inform the House of the following nominations of honourable senators and honourable members to be members of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory.  Mr Kerin, Mr Olley  and  Mr Whan  have been nominated by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam). Mr Cooke  has been nominated by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  and  Mr Hallett  has been nominated by the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  in this House.  Senator Devitt  and  Senator Milliner  have been nominated by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  and  Senator Marriott  and 

 Senator Hannan have been nominated by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers)  in that House. 
I do not intend to delay the House or the passage of this Bill for very long. As the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  pointed out, the purpose of this legislation is to ratify an agreement which has already been made by the previous Government and which is to be finalised by the present Government. I want to stress the complex nature of these agreements which I believe will raise 2 questions which possibly will be debated to far greater length when we are discussing other legislation that is to come before this Parliament. I would emphasise the remarks made by the honourable member for Parramatta when he said that there was a need when considering this legislation to have an appreciation of the rights of the States. I think that is something that we should give serious consideration to even in legislation such as we have before us. 
The ratification of the agreements will put a seal on discussions which were held over quite a considerable period of time. An illustration perhaps of the complexities of the situation as far as offshore oil and various other matters concerning the sea are concerned is the present position in which the United Kingdom and Iceland find themselves. Icelandic flishermen claim a certain area which they say should be reserved and over which they should have fishing rights and the United Kingdom fishermen say that under an international agreement the waters claimed by Iceland as belonging to that country are international waters. When this argument was first brought forward everybody felt that it would be a minor matter which could be solved very easily. But the situation has developed into a serious international question. Although it has nothing to do with this Parliament, I hope that wise and sane counselling will prevail in this matter. It is a matter that affects not only the people of Iceland and the United Kingdom but also all agreements on international waters. 
Although, as has been mentioned by the honourable member for Parramatta, the Opposition does not oppose this Bill, I think that those matters should be given very serious consideration by the Government. This is also a matter of concern to the States and the Territory of Papua New Guinea, especially as the granting of independence to Papua New Guinea is now being given earnest consideration. Those things go to make up a problem that, as I have said, is complex in all its aspects. I agree with the statement by the honourable member for Parramatta that this agreement should be ratified as speedily as possible. I congratulate the honourable member for Parramatta, who was one of the main negotiators of the agreement, and the present Government for the work they have done in relation to this matter. As it is, I hope that some of the facts that we have learned from the negotiation of this agreement will be put to use in the negotiation of further agreements and in later discussions along these lines. 
Order! Is leave granted for the incorporation of the table? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 

<graphic href="084131197305245_44_0.jpg"></graphic>

<para class="block" pgwide="yes">Translated into percentages, these figures provide a useful summary of the direction of local government activities: 

<graphic href="084131197305245_44_1.jpg"></graphic>

It gives me a great deal of pleasure to be associated with the remarks which were made this evening by the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Bury)  and with the remarks which were made yesterday evening by the honourable members for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  Phillip  (Mr Riordan)  and Warringah  (Mr MacKellar).  Perhaps it is appropriate that this subject should have been raised in the House this evening because if the House had not been sitting tomorrow I was to have had the pleasure tomorrow evening of attending an annual dinner and prize giving for a group of surf clubs in my electorate. I disagree with one thing that the honourable member for Mackellar said. He said that there are more surfing beaches in the electorate of Mackellar than there are in any other electorate in the area. 
Well, even that I doubt. There are some magnificent beaches in the electorate of Lyne. Until the electoral distribution commissioners took Kempsey and the Macleay Valley away from me, I also had the surf clubs in that area in my electorate. On many occasions I have listened to  Sir Adrian  Curlewis at various functions associated with surf clubs speaking about the magnificent effort and work of the young men in the life saving movement. Those of us who have had any association with beaches appreciate the tremendous contribution that the young men who are a part of the surf club movement make to the safety of our beaches. I can think of many older men who have attended functions with me at surf clubs who have given years of selfless service to the surf club movement. The only thing that has motivated them has been a desire to serve their community and their fellow man and a feeling that they are making a contribution to the community of which they are a part. For that reason, I believe that any encouragement which can be given to them by the State and Commonwealth governments, particularly the Commonwealth Government in view of the vast resources it has at its disposal, would be most welcome, would be appreciated and would be of tremendous value. 
A great deal is spoken of and I think many of us are perturbed about what might be called the future of our country. I think that sometimes we tend to give more thought and consideration than we should to the groups of young people who are depicted in the mass media as demonstrating against and trying to upset community affairs. I believe that there are times when we do not give sufficient thought to the literally thousands of young people who are making a contribution to the progress and development of our nation and who are accepting responsibility as citizens of our nation. In that sphere I place all of those involved in the administration of the life saving movement and those who participate in the swimming and athletic side of its activities. 
I am sure that there is no need for me to repeat the remarks that have been made by those who have already spoken on this subject. But I think I should point our that costs are increasing and that the financial resources of the young people who do such a tremendous amount of work in this field are not great enough to meet the increased expenses being incurred. They have been able to meet their financial obligations so far by engaging in a tremendous amount of voluntary effort and by depending on charity for support. A number of business houses and prominent firms have helped them in this respect. I believe that insurance companies also have made contributions, as have other organisations. But I think the time has come for a very large contribution to be made by the Commonwealth Government. The sophisticated equipment that is in use today is expensive to buy. Expenses in other avenues also have increased. I believe that the Commonwealth should play its part in this sphere. The House was talking earlier today about the making of grants to local government and there was discussion about the additional responsibilities that have fallen upon local government in its sphere of activities. One of those responsibilities is the patrolling of beaches. Local government provides assistance to the surf clubs. I believe that some responsibility should be accepted by the Commonwealth Government also in this sphere. By providing financial encouragement, I believe the Commonwealth Government also would give a great deal of heart to those young people who are giving of their time and effort to provide such an important service to the community. 
Order! Does the Minister claim to have been misrepresented? 
Order! I appreciate that in a personal explanation the Minister may show where the misrepresentation has occurred, but he cannot debate the matter. 

 Mr MALCOLM FRASER (Wannon)- 1 would like to mention one other matter by way of personal explanation. I make the point quite plain that it is perfectly competent for a government that has a certain policy to give policy guidelines to a committee which is making an examination on its behalf. It is no reflection on any member of that committee to indicate that that might have been done. I have the highest possible regard for Professor Karmel and every member of the Interim Committee. If a government has a certain policy it wants pursued that government is entitled to establish policy guidelines within which that examination must take place. The purpose of what I was wanting to do was to see whether there have not been policy guidelines beyond the stated and public terms of reference. Secondly, it ought to be noted that I pressed the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  and the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  to make arrangements that would enable this long and detailed report to be fully examined. I hope that its educational qualities and merits will be debated without passion from either side of the House. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection leave is granted. 
.a socialist government does not believe in home ownership.  Mr John  Dedman, Minister for Post-war Reconstruction in the Chifley Government, spelt this socialist philosophy out loud and clear in 1947 when he was asked on the hustings whether his Government would make money available for people of low income to buy homes.  Mr Dedman  said that they would not, because home ownership only created a community of little capitalists. 
It happened almost 30 years ago and down the period of years inaccuracies have crept into the original statement of the honourable J. J. Dedman. So I wish now to quote from Hansard that part of  Mr Denman's  speech to which I referred. It was not made in 1947, it was not on the hustings; it was in this place on 2 October 1945.  Mr Dedman  was making a speech on the Bill for the introduction of a Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement - the first such agreement, I believe.  Mr Dedman  said in part of his speech- 
The honourable member for Denison  (Dr Gaha)  suggested that, instead of augmenting the family income by the payment of child endowment, we should provide for the sale of houses at lower prices and that it should be possible to use the money now paid in child endowment to amortise the cost of such an undertaking. He said that in this way we would make the average worker a capitalist. 

 Mr Dedman was referring to a statement made by  Dr Gaha.  He continued: 
That is too big a problem for me to discuss in detail tonight, but there is one argument which I would put forward: The Commonwealth Government is con cerned to provide adequate and good housing for the workers; it is not concerned willi making the workers into little capitalists. 
The late  Mr Anthony,  the father of our present Leader of the Australian Country Party, said: 
In other words, it is not concerned with making them home owners. 

 Mr Dedman then said: 
If there is any criticism which may be directed against the policies of past governments supported by the present Opposition- 
That is referring to past Liberal Party-Country Party governments which at that time were the Opposition, as those parties are today - it is this: Too much of their legislative programs was deliberately designed to place the workers in a position in which they would have a vested interest in the continuance of capitalism. That is a policy which will not have my support, at any rate. 
I thank the House for the privilege of making this statement. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection a, leave is granted. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted, subject to the usual conditions. 
I second the motion. I support the remarks of the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  for 2 major reasons. Firstly, one of the accusations which supporters of the present Government made when they were in Opposition was that there was not sufficient time given in this House to debate international affairs. This afternoon a very important statement was made to the House by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  That statement was answered in a very adequate and competent speech made by the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)  in which he pointed out some very pertinent factors concerning this Government's policies on international affairs. I believe that in this situation in our history on the international scene it is of vital importance that this Parliament should set the record straight in regard to the attitude of both the Government and the Opposition in the field of international affairs. It is all very well for the Prime Minister to make a statement in this House and to give a report - as I think he should have done - on his visit overseas, but on a number of occasions in recent times in the international scene he has made statements which are statements of the Prime Minister of Australia. I believe there is trepidation in some of the countries close to Australia regarding Australia's policy and the action that it is taking. 
I believe that adequate opportunity should be given by the Government so that members of the Opposition can put forward what is a considered opinion of a proportion of the people of this country. I believe that it is even more important today because the daily program states that there is to be a visit to this Parliament by a Mexican parliamentary delegation. Surely, as this report from the Prime Minister covered a visit to that country, adequate time should be given for discussion and adequate time should be given for the presentation of a point of view for which we make no apologies and which is a complete and absolute contradiction of those things which the Prime Minister has said overseas in recent months. I believe that this is one of the major reasons why this House should support the motion that has been moved for the suspension of the Standing Orders. We do not move a motion for the suspension of Standing Orders lightly. We know that there is a normal process for the business of the House to proceed. 
In regard to some of the comments made by Government supporters, I point out that every time they moved for the suspension of Standing Orders when they were in Opposition they stood firm on the rights of an opposition to have its say in this Parliament. The record shows that on a number of occasion the Opposition moved for the suspension of Standing Orders when the importance was not so great as it is today. For those reasons I support completely and absolutely the motion for the suspension of Standing Orders to enable a vital and very important subject to be discussed fully and adequately so that people in the countries close to Australia might know that not everyone in this country is of the opinion that the policy followed by the Prime Minister is the one which is the sanest and of the greatest advantage to this country. 
I do not want to cover the ground that has been covered by other speakers in regard to the aims of this legislation but I should like to take part in the discussion and in the comments relating to it. As I said on a previous occasion, I was the first elected member of this House to take the oath of allegiance to  Her  Majesty the Queen. A senator from Western Australia was the first member of the Parliament to take the oath of allegiance, but I, being elected in a by-election in 1952, was the first member of the House of Representatives to take the oath of allegiance to the present Queen. 
Particularly in these times there is an importance in the value of the monarchy that sometimes is overlooked. I know that there are many people who say that because we sometimes talk about tradition and heritage we live in the past and forget the present and the future. I am one who believes that not only should we think of the present and the future but that also, for many reasons, we should think of our heritage and of the past. We should think too of some of the privileges that we enjoy today that havebeen given to us because of a contribution made by those who have lived in this land before us. 
I think that one of the important factors in relation to the law of the land is the rights of the individual. The importance of the individual is bound up in the Crown, in the monarchy and in the place that the Crown takes in our law. For that reason if for no other I certainly would not like to see a weakening of the power and authority of the Crown. I think it is important in these days that emphasis in this respect should come from Australia because a number of people have come here from European countries. As the  Deputy  Leader of my party, the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  said, our allegiance to the Crown exists not because of our association with the United Kingdom but because of our individual rights as Australians. Because so many people have come from European countries to our shores this is of vital importance. 
A matter that was mentioned both by the honourable member for Morten  (Mr Killen)  and the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  was the factor of the European Economic Community and the effect that the move by the United Kingdom into that organisation would have on the United Kingdom, the monarchy and United Kingdom sovereignty. I can remember discussions at a Common wealth Parliamentary Association Conference held in Malaysia in 1971. When this matter was raised delegates from the United Kingdom Parliament said that the importance of the monarchy and its relationship with the United Kingdom Parliament would never be forgotten and that it would be kept constantly before the authorities. Not only did countries such as Canada, Australia and New Zealand mention this matter. I was interested to note that many of what we might call the 'newer' countries in our Commonwealth also stressed the importance and the value of the monarchy even those countries which have become republics with the Queen as their head. I felt that this was something that gave a very important foundation to a contribution which could be made by the Commonwealth countries in the international scene. For those reasons I support the Bill. I support the remarks that have been made from both sides of the House and I trust that the importance of this legislation will be kept before the minds not only of members of this Parliament but also of the people of the Commonwealth. 
Questions resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Order! The Minister's time has expired. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I claim to have been personally misrepresented by the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  on exactly the same grounds. I think it is unfortunate that the Minister, in his position of having control of this matter, should make a statement that is so wide of the mark. An absolute majority has been obtained on 9 different occasions in the electorate of Lyne. 
I want to speak on the motion that the report be adopted. I started to speak at the Committee stage of the Bill but the Assistant Government Whip moved the gag. I should like to know- 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
The major reason why I objected to the Bill going to the third reading forthwith was that the Government has said that this is a Bill of vital importance. It brought honourable members back from overseas conferences so that it could have the required majority to put the Bill through this House. Yet it gagged the debate with many members of the Opposition desiring to make speeches on the legislation. Therefore, if this Bill is as important as the Government says it is, and to enable the people to make a decision on a matter that concerns vitally every person in Australia, then I think it is a complete and absolute disgrace that the gag has been moved at this stage with so many Opposition members still desiring to speak upon it. If the people of this Commonwealth are to make a decision on this- 

 - Mr Speaker, I seek the leave of the House to make a brief statement on the matters covered by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  in reply to a question asked of him. 
Order! I suggest to the honourable members for Wimmera, Angas and Paterson that as their names are shown on the list of speakers to participate in this debate they should answer the Minister for Immigration in the course of making those speeches and not by interjecting while the Minister is speaking. 
Has the Minister for Defence received any reports of the reaction of the Royal Australian Air Force, Port Stephens Shire Council or the residents of the surrounding district to the disbanding of 76 Squadron at Williamtown? Is he aware  that the defensive capacity of the RAAF will be seriously impaired by this policy of fewer aircraft and fewer men? What action does he intend to take to meet the strong resentment of the RAAF at this policy decision? Will he immediately review these decisions to prevent any further deterioration in the morale of Australian servicemen? 
I support the legislation being presented to the House today. It is non-controversial because basically the principles embodied in it were commenced by the previous Government. But there are one or two factors that might be worth mentioning when we are considering these Bills. I have a particular interest in Papua New Guinea because in my electorate the Taree Municipal Council in the Manning area has an association with a local governing body in Goroka. Some years ago members of the local municipal council and some private citizens visited Goroka at the time of its show and that association has continued. Two lads from Goroka have visited Taree and have attended high school there while staying with people in the district. As I have said, there is this association. 
On top of that, in 1957 when I attended the United Nations I had the privilege of being a member of the fourth Trusteeship Committee which gave consideration to the various trusteeships that were granted under the auspices of the United Nations. As the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)  said, we should be reminded at this time of some of the problems and difficulties that exist in Papua New Guinea. I know that the accusation has been made against those people who say 'Hasten slowly' that they desire to keep control of these people and do not want to give them independence. I do not think that this is now a point at issue with members of either side of the House. I think we should also give some consideration to the fact that people who are stressing that they are anti-colonialist and want to give the people of Papua New Guinea independence are advocating something that is even more detrimental than colonialism, that is, pushing people or rushing people into independence before they are prepared for it. In this circumstance, surely the people who should make the ultimate decision are those to whom we are giving independence. I believe that this Government is making a mistake at the moment because it is not listening sufficiently to men like Michael Somare and other leaders in Papua New Guinea who are looking to the future with confidence but knowing that it will bring with it many difficulties and complex situations. 
I was delighted to hear the remarks of the honourable member for Kooyong about Albert Maori Kiki, who is the Minister for Defence and Foreign Relations in Papua New Guinea. I attended a South Pacific Commission conference a couple of weeks ago at which he led the Papua New Guinea delegation. I was impressed with his political maturity, the way in which he handled the situation and with his presentation of the case for Papua New Guinea. At the same time he showed a wide and broad understanding of the problems of other countries in the area and also of the problems that are confronting countries like Australia and New Zealand. I felt, as I was sitting at this conference, that here was someone who could take his place in international conferences and could hold his own with any of the leaders of the communities and the nations of the world today. I have already referred to the Chief Minister of Papua New Guinea,  Mr Michael  Somare, and the contribution that he has made. At this time we also should have some thought of and  should  give congratulations to those who, in the early days, played their part in bringing Papua New Guinea and its people to the stage of development it has now reached. I refer to the Department itself, the Administration, district commissioners and all the many and varied people who, in their own way, played their part and made a contribution to the progress and development of Papua New Guinea. 
The honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Whittorn)  referred to the establishment of an airline in Papua New Guinea. What was said by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  appears to me to be a contradiction of the Government's expressed attitude. The point was made by the honourable member for Balaclava that on the one hand the Government is saying: 'We are going to give these people and this country independence on date X irrespective of whether they want it', yet the moment those people say that they want to do something on their own, that they want to establish this airline and participate in it, this Government immediately steps in and says that they will not do it unless they do it the way the Government wants it done. I think the point was made very well by the honourable member for Balaclava when he said that this was a complete contradiction. I think it is one of the matters to which we should give very careful consideration. The fact remains that this Government has to be careful lest it create a problem in regard to independence rather than a partnership. There has been goodwill. I believe that on both sides there has been an understanding and an appreciation of the complexities and the difficulties associated with self-government. If this goodwill continues to be shown independence will occur to the advantage of the people of Papua New Guinea as well as the people of Australia. 
I have much pleasure in supporting the legislation before the House. I promised the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  that I would not speak for my full time so I do not want to labour the point. But I hope, as I said, that independence will proceed to the advantage of both Australia and the people of Papua 
New Guinea. I join the honourable member for Kooyong in wishing the Government of Papua New Guinea and the House of Assembly all good wishes for the future. 
Is the amendment seconded? 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr Edwards's  amendment) stand part of the Bill. 
Order! There is no substance to the point of order. 
In the last few minutes I have left in which to speak I want to turn to a couple of other items that touch my heart particularly. I want to talk about handicapped children again. How much did the previous Government provide directly for such children in 1972-73? Nil. Nothing. Under our Government $7.7m, nearly $8m, is to be provided in 1974 and that is just a beginning. Overall in 1974 and 1975 this Government will provide almost $44m for handicapped children. Let all parents who have such children, or citizens with a humanitarian concern for such children, take note of the vastly improved status and opportunities that they will have. They were the forgotten children. Then there is the question of the disadvantaged schools, the ones which are so characteristic of our inner city areas, the schools frequented by the lowest in the socio-economic scale and those where the greatest congregation of migrant children happens to be, the children who were brought here by the previous Government and then forgotten. This Government has made special provision for them over and above what it is doing for schools generally. Special provisions are being made for them in accordance with the Karmel Committee report. They got nothing specifically under the previous Government. This year alone this Government will provide $7. 7m for those schools, over and above what else is done, on the basis of need. 
We cannot do all these things overnight. My colleague the Minister for Housing  (Mr 
Les Johnson) knows the problem that we have in recruiting tradesmen alone for the multiplicity of purposes that the Government has taken upon itself. One of the reasons why we do not have enough tradesmen is the ineptitude of the previous Government in not giving support to another aspect of educational enterprise, technical education. For a fair part of my life I served in that sphere, training teachers for technical education, and I know a little about the subject. Technical education will get a substantial increase as well. In 1972-73 this branch of education got only $13m but under this Government it will get $32.6m in one financial year. That is the difference in approach. Educational authorities will get further help in the tertiary aspects pf education but I will not have time to talk about that today. 
We are still awaiting the report of the committee set up by the Minister to inquire into Australian technical and further education. So I could go on. This Bill provides fina'ncial resources that every State and nine-tenths of private schools applaud. They have a guarantee of continuance under this Government. This is not an ad hoc commission. It has not. been set up to last for one year and then be forgotten about for another 20 years, this is a guarantee for Australia's educational future. It is to be a permanent commission backed by the national government - the one Government in Australia that has the resources to guarantee the future of every child, and for that matter every adult, seeking an appropriate education in Australia. No wonder I support this Bill. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable members time has expired. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
This legislation provides an opportunity for me to express my apprehension over the direction in which the federal system of finance is heading. I do not claim that the present position is entirely due to the Labor Government, although the progress towards centralism has quickened markedly under its administration. What I think must be of grave concern is the direction in which we are headed and, more immediately, the undesirable features of the present federal financial arrangements. Before World War II, payments by the Commonwealth to the States were mainly of a marginal nature confined to specific aspects. Since then there has been a marked increase in the kind and scope of Commonwealth assistance to the States in relation to independent State revenue raising capabilities. Erosion of State financial independence and authority has been gradual but inexorable. It has been the product of a combination of financial circumstances and economic growth. In this respect the centralist attitude of the Labor Government is a more extreme extension of a long term trend that has developed to a point where reassessment is essential. The facts are clear. Over the 22 years from 1948-49 to 1969-70 the net indebtedness of State and local authorities increased by nearly $ 12,000m while that of the Commonwealth authorities decreased by over $6,000m. 
The financial and constitutional position which has developed in Australia is one of imbalance between the Commonwealth and the States in the allocation of revenue and responsibility. The revenue collected by the States during the 1960s totalled just under one-fifth of that collected by the Commonwealth whereas expenditure by the States amounted to four-fifths of the size of the Commonwealth expenditure. While the Commonwealth has become financially dominant there has been no corresponding transfer of functional activities. The States have retained their constitutional responsibility for important services such as education, hospitals and roads and the control of leading public utilities such as railways and electricity. 
The previous Government, of which I was a supporter, was conscious of the deteriorating position, and initiated remedial action to remove some of the more burdensome aspects of State government financial burdens. At the 1970 Premiers' Conference the Commonwealth agreed to provide an interest free grant of $200m in 1970-71 to be used for non-income earning works - for example, schools. This sum was to increase in future years at the same rate as total works and housing programs. The Commonwealth also undertook to assume the interest and sinking fund burden of an additional $200m of State aid over the 5 years. Thus, by 1974-75 the Commonwealth would have assumed responsibility for existing State aid totalling $ 1,000m. The importance of the interest-free capital grant was that previously these funds had been provided by the Commonwealth in the form of loans and interest had been charged on them. It is important to understand that position in 1970 to bring into context the Bills that we are now debating. 
The Loan Council program for State governments represents the major source of funds available to the States for capital works. They had always been general purpose programs, although from 1945-46 to 1971, as a matter of procedure, the Loan Council agreed to the allocation of an equivalent part of the total program to the Australian government as an approved borrowing program. When this arrangement expired in 1970-71 specific revenue grants were introduced in lieu of that arrangement. At the Premiers' Conference this year advances for housing were made outside the Loan Council arrangements. In addition the Commonwealth Government is to take over full responsibility for financing tertiary education from 1 January 1974. As a result the Loan Council program is $115m lower in 1973-74 than last year. Therefore, this year we have seen the Commonwealth taking over the tertiary education area, and taking the housing program outside the Loan Council area as a separate program with many strings attached. It can of course be argued persuasively that the States agreed to these arrangements, but this is not the point. The point is that the States have been . financially weakened to the extent that they are in no position to refuse money from the Commonwealth and in no position to raise it alternatively for themselves. 
We are seeing the ultimate culmination of a long process which has been gradually and greatly accelerated under the Labor Government. More specifically, one less publicised feature of the 1973-74 Federal financial arrangements is the increased emphasis in Commonwealth assistance to the States of specific purpose allocations and the decreased emphasis on general revenue assistance. A few facts may illustrate this point. The document Payments to or for the States 1973-74* attached to the Budget papers shows that general revenue payments to the States in 1973-74 by the Commonwealth will increase by only 9 per cent while specific purpose revenue payments and specific purpose capital payments will increase by nearly 50 per cent and 100 per cent respectively in one year. Loan Council borrowing programs are down 20 per cent. I believe that these are disturbing facts, not from a narrow political point of view but from the broad viewpoint of the health of our political system. I believe in a Federal system of government. It is my view that the division of power and responsibility is a means both of preserving the liberties of the individual and of providing a better quality of government for people. 
Government should be responsive to the people and the extent of that responsiveness is to a large extent dependent upon the closeness of government to the people it administers. It is a duty of State and local governments to interpret the community's demand for services in the areas for which they are responsible and to determine the extent to which their taxpayers are willing to meet the cost of continued expansion. Under existing arrangements however, State and local authorities are unable to discharge this responsibility because of limitations of their power to raise taxes or borrow for capital works. At present no government is discharging the vital role of government - arbitrating between the taxpayer and those who call for more expenditure on government services. Both Commonwealth and States can disclaim responsibility for the level of State and local services. The practical effect is that many services are inadequately provided. The difficulty is that while the States can make an evaluation that more should be spent on State and local services, they do so without the restraint of having to raise the taxation to finance any increase; but while the Commonwealth may make an evaluation that taxation is high enough already it does so without any direct responsibility for the level of State and local services. 
I believe that the Commonwealth government should retain overall control of the direction and nature of economic growth. However, the present financial relations are deficient in that the States' constitutional powers and electoral responsibilities are not matched by financial independence and authority. Both the loss of independence and dissipation of responsibility could be lessened if either the States passed over some of their powers or alternatively gained a new measure of independence. The third alternative is for the States to continue to have extensive powers but for the exercise of those powers to be determined in detail by the Commonwealth through its financial leverage. The Labor Government is using the financial power of the Commonwealth to impose conditions on State government decisions and is therefore guilty of undermining the entire concept of Federal government. If it wishes to centralise power in Canberra, it should openly press for the constitutional amendments that are necessary to accomplish its purpose. Such a policy would, I believe, be unacceptable to the Australian people for the very good reason that in a country as geographically extensive as Australia, the Federal system is the best. Indeed, current experience is that Federal systems overseas are tending towards a greater dispersal of authority. I believe that what must happen is that the States must be given the financial sinews with which to exercise their constitutional responsibility. I oppose very strongly the centralist attitudes which pose such a fundamental danger to the Australian community. 
I believe that the more consideration we give to this matter and the greater our understanding of it is, the wore we will realise the dangers of centralised control. I say that irrespective of what political party may happen to be in control of the treasury bench in Australia. Because of Australia's geographical situation, because of the problems that confront us, and because of the difficulties that we have in development and progress, I believe that the best system is the federal system. It is a system which has been proved in the past, although admittedly with some difficulties and some problems. But, despite those .difficulties and problems, I think the federal system is a far better system than the centralised form of control which would centralise things in Canberra to the detriment of the progress and development of Australia. 
Sitting suspended from 6.12 to 3 p.m. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes, and rather badly, too, by the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter).  I realise the vast expanse of Queensland and the various factors associated with that magnificent State. But I do think - and I believe that all my New South Wales colleagues would feel the same way - that to refer to the Sydney Harbour as a creek is rather understating the matter. 
I want to make one or two observations on the estimates for the Department of External Territories and the Department of Foreign Affairs. When one looks through the Appropriation Bill and sees the various areas of expenditure of the departments one realises exactly what is covered by the Department of Foreign Affairs. Let me say at the outset - I think this would be accepted by honourable members on both sides of the chamber - that we in Australia are extremely fortunate in the personnel of the Department of Foreign Affairs, both at home and in our posts overseas. At the various conferences I have had the privilege of attending over a period of nearly 22 years, I have been gratified by the very high standard of the personnel of the Department. Some of the expenditure for our international organisations has been increased. I feel that it is through these organisations that assistance can be given and Australia can make a very valuable contribution - not only a financial contribution but also a physical contribution in various spheres of activity. I am thinking of the assistance that was given in Thailand by engineers and men who had had experience with the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority in Australia. I feel that this is one of the vital areas in which Australia can be of great assistance. 
I think it might be opportune even for discussions to be held or consultation to be taken between the Department of Foreign Affairs and the Department of Defence. In certain instances our defence forces could be used in ferrying aid to some countries. For example, the Hercules aircraft of the Royal Australian Air Force could be used to convey food and other such assistance to these countries. If assistance can be increased, of course, I say again that this is a valuable contribution. While we have thought of building roads and have looked at assistance in university education, I think we should also give thought to what one might call assistance at the village level. 
A little while ago, with the honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Luchetti)  I had the privilege of attending the 13th South Pacific Conference and the 36th Commission Session. It was under the chairmanship of the Lieutenant Governor of Guam, the Honourable Kurt Moylan. I was most impressed with the standard of discussions, the suggestions that were put forward and the approach which was made by many of those countries which one might call newly developed countries, whose leaders and members in some instances were attending a conference in an independent capacity for the first time. I have mentioned previously the contribution that was made by the delegation from Papua New Guinea and the maturity that was shown by its leader and members. This conference is not only important to all countries, such as the United States of 
America, the United Kingdom and France, who were the major powers present, but is also of even greater importance to us in Australia and to New Zealand because of our closeness to other countries in the South Pacific area and because of our association with the peoples of this area. That is why I was delighted at that conference to hear of the special contribution of $NZ250,000 that was made by the Australian and the New Zealand Governments. This money is to be spent on an enlarged works program. It was interesting also to hear delegates discuss the agriculture of the area and the food problems that the various islands and peoples had. In a conference in which they felt not only that they were participating but also that they were contributing to, it was interesting to hear their discussions and, as I said, to note the importance that they attached to the association of each country one with the other. 
I go on now to say something in regard to our foreign policy. I remember not so long ago - it does not seem to be so very long ago, but it was back in time- a certain gentleman arriving back in his country, waving a piece of paper and saying: 'Peace in our time'. While we may look around our world today and feel that perhaps a threat to us in this area is not imminent, one of the greatest factors in avoiding an incident is to be prepared for it. I will have something further to say about that when the Committee considers the Defence estimates. But I believe that at this stage we are not giving sufficient attention to some of the vital areas in which Australia is concerned. I said that some years ago a man waved a piece of paper and said: 'Peace in our time'. I think this is something we should consider when we think that just after so many people had commented about the fact that there was no imminent danger confronting Australia the conflict between Israel, Egypt and Syria broke out. I shall not apportion blame either to one side or to the other at this moment, because I do not think that this would be of any help in the situation at this time, but what has happened shows what can occur in the international situation and how quickly incidents can develop. 
The only thing I would point out for those who are critical of Israel is that Israel was established as a nation by the United Nations Organisation, and I believe that those who are trying to undermine Israel should face up to that reality. The situation between Israel and the Arab countries will not be helped by a failure to face up to the reality that Israel is a nation in the Middle East area. This must be accepted. As I said, I do not want to go into arguments about who is to blame or what are the circumstances of this conflict. The point I make is that in international affairs such events can develop, one might say, almost overnight. One of the things that Australia needs is a preparedness for an eventuality. 
A great deal has been said by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and others about the independent foreign policy of Australia. They have said that we should be independent, that we should not literally follow behind on the coat tails of one country or one group of countries or another. I do not think that anyone would disagree with the proposition that Australia should have an independent foreign policy. But because we follow a policy similar to that of one of the major powers does not necessarily mean that we are not being independent and that we are not putting forward our point of view. As I said, I will have more to say in regard to these matters in the debate on the estimates of Department of Defence. The thing that really worries me at the moment is that while we are talking about an independent foreign policy for Australia, while we are saying that more and more we should accept responsibility ourselves, it appears to me that we are doing the exact opposite, that we are doing everything we can to destroy our capacity to sustain this independent foreign policy about which we speak. 
I will not take up a great deal of the time of the House. On a number of occasions Government supporters have said that members of the Opposition were only wasting time in relation to the discussion on this Bill, the implication being that they were not really concerned about the subject matters contained in the Bill. I should like to point to one matter which I think justifies the action that has been taken by members of  the Opposition. I refer to a question asked in the speech by my colleague the honourable member for Canning  (Mr Hallett).  It relates to the very important matter of where cooperatives and similar organisations stand in regard to this legislation. There is a great deal of confusion in the minds of certain sections of the business community in relation to this matter. That question was not answered. I believe that one of the major reasons why it has not yet been answered is because there is no answer for it at this moment and 'because there is confusion in the minds of Government supporters in relation to it. I think that completely justifies the action of the Opposition in trying to impress upon the Government the importance of further time being given to consideration of so important a matter. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
Some things have been said by the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Sherry)  with which I would not agree. On odd occasions he and I have had a difference of opinion on other subjects, but I certainly agree with him in what he said about the system we have in Australia of the Australian Broadcasting Commission and commercial radio and television. I think that under this system we get the best of both worlds. There are certain things that can be done by the Australian Broadcasting Commission that cannot be done by commercial stations. In exactly the same way, there are certain things which the commercial radio stations and television channels can do that may not be quite so easy for the Australian Broadcasting Commission. 
I want to speak on the estimates for the Department of the Media in relation to broadcasting and television. Before doing so, however, I want to comment on some of the things that have been said by honourable members on both sides in relation to the responsibility of the media in all spheres - in the spheres of the Press, radio and television. Today many things are happening on the world scene and it is necessary to have a well informed public. I believe that the responsibility of the media today is far greater than it has ever been in world history. 
I now refer to commercial broadcasting and television and sound a note of warning about some of the steps that are being taken by the present Government in these fields. A little while ago when discussing increased charges for land lines and the various other increased charges by the Postmaster-General's Department, reference was made to profits that are made by radio interests. I appreciate the fact that radio and television must contribute in some way to the costs of these services provided by the Postmaster-General's Department. It was then mentioned that commercial radio and television companies were being formed so that they might make a profit. Those who say this should look first of all at metropolitan broadcasting and television compared with country broadcasting and television. 
The policy of the previous Government in the initial stages was to endeavour to have radio and television under the control of people in the area which those media served. I believe that this was a wise policy. I realise that there are many difficulties and complexities in the establishment particularly of television with its high costs. Factors have entered into the situation which have necessitated the joining together of some television channels. This policy is to the advantage of the people in country areas and the television channels. But the original plan of the previous Government was to have local people in local control. If control were to come from a centralised point it would be detrimental not only to the television industry but also to the people in particular areas. The major point is the service given to the area served by both radio stations and television channels. 
I will not deny that these companies desire to make a profit. After all, I suppose that is one of the facts and realities of life. But if one looks at radio and television in this country one will find that a great deal of the time of the radio stations and television channels is spent in community effort. I am thinking particularly of times of flood and other emergencies in country areas when the only means of communication has been radio. I know of a number of instances in which lives have been saved and stock have been saved because the radio station was able to broadcast a warning about a river rising and the danger of flooding in the area. As I say, radio and television provide community services. I recall to mind that only a short time ago the 2 television channels in my electorate held a special charities appeal. An amount of money was raised and interest was created in this field of charity. While I do not deny that the commercial stations are interested in making a profit and in providing a return to their shareholders, I believe that the aspect I have just mentioned should be given consideration also. That is why I believe that the policy being followed by the present Government endangers the future of some radio stations and television channels in country areas. 
I said earlier that I thought it might be well for people to compare the profits made in metropolitan areas with the profits made in some country areas. I have suggested that the national advertisers should have a look at this when they are allocating their advertising expenditure for a particular year. They might also take into consideration the fact that on a per capita basis, although the country station may not appear to cover the same number of listeners or viewers as a metropolitan station covers, sometimes there is a greater return in advertising in the country area than there is in a metropolitan area. I come back to the service to the community which I believe is part and parcel of country radio and country television. 
At a time when costs in these fields are increasing, the Government has made a move which will reduce the income of these stations. Although I do not agree with it, I will not comment on the moves to eradicate cigarette advertising over a period of time. I know that arguments both for and against this question have been put in many quarters and in many countries, but this move will have an effect upon the income of country radio stations and country television channels. At the same time the increase in costs that is being faced by the media is creating something that could cause a lessening of the capacity of these stations to provide services. In many of the country areas the only means by which the country people have a link with sporting activities and other events, including the news, is through the media of television and radio. Of course, the Australian Broadcasting Commission has many advantages because it is linked to many of its regional stations throughout the State and even throughout Australia. In its attitude and thinking, the Government should give consideration to these factors so that radio and television in country areas can continue to play a part in serving the community. 

 - Mr Speaker, I feel compelled at this moment to make a few remarks- 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
It is not often that I take up the time of the House by speaking in the adjournment debate, but I feel compelled to do so at this stage because of certain things that have happened in this House in recent weeks. Let me say from the outset that I accept the fact that it is a government's right to move the gag, to use the guillotine, to take the measures and adopt the means that are necessary to complete the business before the House according to the timetable that the Government feels it should adopt to have its business finalised. I think this was admitted and accepted by the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly).  I think he also accepted the fact that it is the task of the Opposition to use at every opportunity the means and the methods of opposing the Government's program and the Government's plan. I might say that every time the Leader of the House moves the gag or uses the guillotine the seat which I occupy shudders, because this seat was occupied in the previous Parliament by the former honourable member for Sturt, who was a Labor member. I think that everyone in this House remembers the number of occasions on which the honourable member rose in wrath whenever the gag was moved or whenever he was not allowed to make a speech that he felt was necessary. 
I do think that this is a matter of serious concern to the House. The Opposition has had made available to it very limited time in which to put forward its point of view. One of the great features of a democratic system of government is that there is in the Parliament an Opposition, and the duty of that Opposition is to present an alternative to the proposals put forward by the Government, to criticise those proposals and to present the point of view of the sections of the community and the electors that Opposition members have the privilege to represent. In recent times there has been, to my mind, too much pressure from the Government and from the Leader of the House in moving the gag and limiting the time made available to the Opposition. 
I speak of 2 points in particular, although there are many others that could be mentioned in this regard. The 2 points that I want to make to illustrate what I am saying are related to the estimates for the Department of Defence and the estimates for the Department of Minerals and Energy. These departments are concerned with 2 matters of vital concern to the people of Australia. I do not say that the estimates for the Postmaster-General's Department, the Prime Minister's Department, the Parliament and the other departments are not important, but, as I say, I take these 2 departments to illustrate the point I am trying to make. They are 2 vital departments. I refer to the Department of Defence first of all. We have had 3 statements from the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard).  One was delivered somewhere back in May - I think it was 30 May - one was delivered on 22 August and the other on 20 November. This House has not been given an opportunity to debate those statements. This House and the Opposition have not been given an opportunity to put forward their points of view. It may be that, because of the number of contradictions in the Government's defence policy, it does not want to give the Opposition time to make those contradictions obvious. I noticed in a newspaper the other day that a Royal Australian Air Force Hercules, if my memory serves me correctly, conveyed to China a bull that had been presented by the Australian Government. Perhaps that was an appropriate means of transportation because of the amount of bull in the present Government's defence policy. 
I think there was a certain amount of comment and criticism of the previous Government by .using the phrase: 'AH the way with LBJ I think we might now coin the phrase that this Government's policy is 'live and die with Chou En-lai'. At this stage we have almost lowered Australia's prestige by the attitude that we have shown towards Communist China. I am not, by any manner of means, saying that we should not have an association, that we should not trade or that we should not talk with Communist China, but there is no necessity, to my mind, for us to go as far as we have gone in our attitude to Communist China at the moment. 
As my colleague the honourable member for the Northern Territory said, we have kowtowed to them. Our forces must be strong. We must be sufficiently self contained to make credible our capacity to defend our country and to assist our friends. We have not been doing that. I wonder whether this is one of the major reasons why there has been this limitation of time, particularly on the Defence estimates. 
Let me illustrate the point which I desire to make. I have said that I appreciate and accept that a government should be allowed to use the guillotine and to apply the gag in order to get its business through, but reasonable time should be given to the Opposition on the estimates of the Department of Minerals and Energy. Two Opposition members were given the opportunity to speak. The Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  spoke. He had unlimited time in which to speak. I do not think that we should assess this matter on the time factor alone. Two Opposition members were given the opportunity to speak. On the Defence estimates 3 Opposition members were given the opportunity to speak. I think I have given sufficient illustration of the importance of these 2 departments to Australia. The Department of Minerals and Energy is important. At a time when we are talking about a world shortage of fuel and when there is consternation in regard to this shortage, surely the Department of Minerals and Energy is of vital importance to this country. I do not deny the importance of the other departments. Two Opposition members were given a chance to speak. The Department of Defence is another vital department to this country. Three Opposition members were given a chance to speak. 
I am a little disappointed at the attitude of members of the media in the sense that this matter has not, to my mind, been given the publicity which it should have been given. In this Parliament the essence of democracy rests on the Government and the Opposition. If we forget that fact it will be a tragedy in Australia's history. I sugest that the Leader of the House give consideration to some of the actions which he has been taking in regard to the business of the House. The Opposition is an integral part of this parliamentary system. Opposition members should be given their rights. I do not expect that all Opposition members be allowed to speak. No one would  expect that. A reasonable amount of time should be allotted for each debate so that Opposition members may present their point of view and also the point of view of the people whom it is their privilege to represent. 
Is the amendment seconded? 
In referring to the amending Extradition (Foreign States) Bill forwarded to this House from the Senate, I wish to comment on some of the remarks made by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth).  I suppose that in any legislation such as this there always is a danger that the matters he raised may eventuate. In thinking about some of the things he said, I suppose that if a government were determined that the circumstances demanded such action then irrespective of almost any alteration to the legislation it could extradite a person to another country. Perhaps the Government should give consideration to some of the things that the honourable member mentioned. However, the Australian Country Party supports the amendments that were moved in the Senate and were transmitted in this Bill to the House of Representatives. 
I have been a little disappointed at the actions of the United Nations and of some of the major countries which appear to have shown a lack of serious consideration of the terrorist activities which are taking place in the international scene at present. In my opinion, if these activities are allowed to continue, international diplomacy will not work. If any groups or any countries feel that the hijacking or the kidnapping- of diplomats or the other terrorist activities which are going on will result in any advantage flowing to them, I think that they should give very serious consideration to their actions because, in the long term, every country will suffer and will be at risk. This legislation should give us cause to think about some of the events which are happening at present. 
The effects of the Government's amendments to the Act are slight. One of them represents a fundamental change in the law. I believe, after a careful consideration of the legislation, it is obvious that the amendments will improve the existing legislation and will contribute to an acceptance of a responsibility that this country has to bear in the international sphere. At the same time they cause thought to be given to the protection of the individual concerned. The Minister for Secondary Industry  (Mr Enderby),  who is at the table, would be conscious of the fact that a great deal of this legislation is in legal phraseology, and sometimes it is not easy for a layman to follow the legal phraseology and to have a complete understanding of the legislation. But in general terms, I believe that the amendments improve the existing legislation. I do not wish to delay the House any further, because this matter has been debated well and truly on a number of occasions in this House and in the Senate. The Country Party supports the amendments contained in the legislation. 
Does the Minister for Health recall the strong representations that I have made to him both in a personal capacity and on behalf of many individuals and organisations about the provision of milk to school children? Has the Minister any information he can give me on this subject? 
Order! I suggest that interjections cease. I suggest also that the honourable member for Hunter comment on the Bill before the House and not interjections. 
 I shall quote from an authoritative paper published by the Economic Affairs) Bureau of the Japanese Ministry of Foreign Affairs which was prepared by Professor Hirono of Seikei University, after an exhaustive survey of Australian mineral resources policy, or rather, the lack of it. 
The report stated bluntly that the most important problem in connection with the mineral resources policy of the Australian Government is, as repeatedly said, that an inclusive and systematic resources policy has not yet been established. It went on to say: 
It is necessary for the Australian Government to decide its own policy for the mineral resources based on the long-term benefits for Australia, and for this special attention should be paid to changes in the international relation of supply and demand for mineral resources, to future changes in the competitive power of Australian mineral resources, to relations between other countries, to changes in the relative position and standing of Australia in the world, to changes in the industrial structure within Australia, to the development of technological reform, to changes in the degree of national interest in the development of technological reform, and to the promotion of living and education standards. 
 Is the Prime Minister speaking to the amendment? 
In respect of this paragraph New South Wales and Victoria have proposed that the reference power should be amended to remove doubts both as to power to refer for a limited term and as to power to revoke a reference. New South Wales also has suggested that the Commonwealth should be authorised to refer powers to the States. Victoria wishes to ensure that a reference may be made subject to terms and conditions. 
I then said: 
It would be useful to the Parliament of the Commonwealth to have the power to refer to the parliament or parliaments of any State or States any matter within the exclusive power of the Parliament of the Commonwealth. 
I gave illustrations of such matters where the Commonwealth alone can legislate as things stand now and where it might be agreeable to the States as well as to the Commonwealth to have the States legislate. I proceeded: 
I am pleased, therefore, to be able to inform the Convention that after the adjournment yesterday evening heads of delegations met and were able to agree on the principle of references either way. We propose that our parliamentary draftsmen should promptly confer on the terms of an amendment to the present paragraph which already permits matters to be referred by the State parliaments to the Commonwealth Parliament and on the terms of a new paragraph which would permit matters to be referred by the Commonwealth Parliament to the State parliaments. We intend that the terms of both paragraphs should make identical provisions concerning terms and conditions, duration or revocation. We hope that the Commonwealth Parliament will pass a Bill for a referendum on the companion paragraphs to be held at the time of the next federal poll. 
I was supported by  Sir Robert  Askin,  Mr Hamer, Mr Dunstan  and  Mr Tonkin  - the Premiers of New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia and Western Australia - and by  Mr Everett,  the Attorney-General and delegation leader from Tasmania.  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  the Premier of Queensland, did not endorse the suggestion that the other six of us had wholeheartedly made. But he did conclude: 
However, we do appreciate the fact that the Prime Minister made the proposal and we look forward to being able to make a closer examination of it. 
It may be, reading through the transcript as 1 have, that the original suggestion came from New South Wales. At any rate, I put in the papers which were circulated. But I made the suggestion personally to the leaders of five of the State delegations. Queensland did not accept my invitation to confer. So this was the suggestion made to the Convention on 6 September last and accepted by five of the State leaders at that time and not opposed by the other. 
We moved fairly promptly. On 12 September I wrote to the Premiers advising that the Attorney-General would be in touch with State Attorneys as to arrangements for draftsmen to consider the Bill. On 2 November the first draft was sent to State draftsmen by the First Parliamentary Counsel. On 19 November the draft Bill was considered at a meeting of Commonwealth and State draftsmen. On 20 November  Mr Punch,  the New South Wales Minister who is  Chairman  of Standing Committee B of the Convention, wrote to me asking for copies of the Bill for consideration by the Committee as soon as possible. I replied advising that discussions between the parliamentary draftsmen were still continuing but I would meet the request as soon as possible. On 30 January the Attorney-General wrote to the State Attorneys forwarding the revised draft. A letter from the First Parliamentary Counsel was sent to State draftsmen forwarding the revised draft. That was on 30 January. On 31 January the First Parliamentary Counsel wrote to the chief executive officer of the Convention forwarding copies of the revised draft for consideration by Standing Committee 6. On 13 February the draft Bill was considered by the working party of Standing Committee B. On 14 February it was considered by the Standing Committee itself. 
On 18 and 19 February the draft Bill was considered by the Commonwealth and State draftsmen at Wellington, New Zealand, and a revised text was produced. On 20 February copies of the revised text were handed to the Attorney-Generals of the Commonwealth and all the States at their meeting in Wellington. On 22 February the revised draft prepared by the First Parliamentary Counsel following the Wellington meeting and incorporating some further revision, particularly relating to the title and the continuation of existing laws upon renewal of a reference, was sent to my Department. On 25 February  Mr Punch  wrote to me. On March 1 I wrote back to  Mr Punch.  On 1 March I also wrote to each Premier forwarding a copy of the Bill and saying that I would be introducing it this present week. Not a single Premier has written to me objecting to the Bill proceeding. In all the intervening months since we agreed - the Premiers and I on 6 September last - none of them has suggested that this Bill should not go ahead. It will be seen that all the Attorneys collaborated promptly and fully, and all the parliamentary counsel, Commonwealth and State, collaborated promptly, repeatedly and fully on producing the draft of this Bill. 
The Bill carries out a very reasonable proposal. In the view of both the Commonwealth and the States there are advantages for this.  Mr Punch,  on behalf of Standing Committee B, quotes the views of that Committee in favour of the Bill. He said that the Standing Committee members were unanimous in generally commending the draft and expressed the view that the proposals, if adopted, would be a highly desirable and important improvement to the Constitution. They made a couple of suggestions. We accepted one. We gave the reasons why we could not accept the other. Those views - the acceptance and the rejection - were the considered view of all the draftsmen and all the Attorneys. It is rather belated foi the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party, or the National Party - whatever it is - to say that we are in any way failing to collaborate with the States. 
The one agreement that came out of the Convention has been the subject of very full consideration by the draftsmen and the Attorneys of the 7 governments in Australia. There has never been any objection by the head of government or by any Attorney in the interim. I believe that the House should allow the people to decide this. It is rather belated to say that there is anything improper in this proposal. It is an eminently sensible proposal. Nobody has objected to it up till now. The governments have accepted it. The governments have all collaborated in putting it. In these circumstances the people ought to be allowed to vote on it. 
The other referendum proposals of course are ones which fall within the province of this Parliament. It has been stated all along that they would be put to the people at the next Federal poll. I stated that this was one which all of us suggested - Commonwealth and State - also should be put at that time. Nobody - no head of government - has demurred to that proposal. It is rather belated to suggest that more consideration is needed. What further consideration is needed? There could have been no fuller consideration than there has been on this. It is the first time that Federal and State Attorneys and draftsmen have collaborated on such a matter since the nation was formed. There should be no more delay in putting this proposal which up to this stage and during the last 6 months has been accepted not only without demur but has been accepted with positive collaboration between the 7 Australian governments. 
Can the Prime Minister inform the House of Australia's present position in the diplomatic field in Cambodia or the Khmer Republic, and does the situation at this moment mean that the Australian Government has prejudged both the political and the military situation in that country?. 
The matter I wish to raise tonight in the debate on the motion for the adjournment of the House concerns the Department of Immigration. I am delighted to see that the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  is in the chamber. I hope that he received my message this afternoon informing him that I was going to speak on this subject. I want to make it quite clear at the outset that I am in no way criticising officers of his Department about any lack of courtesy or assistance. Not only in this particular case but also in every case about which I have made representations they have been most helpful and have extended many courtesies. But this particular case is not the only one in which I have had difficulties in getting a reply and a satisfactory solution to my representations. 
I will not quote the name of the individual in this case but it was first brought to my attention in October by a Cabinet Minister colleague of mine in the State Parliament whose State electorate covers part of my federal electorate. It was a request from a citizen of the area asking that her son and his wife and their 5 children should be allowed to come to Australia. The original application was made 12 months ago and was not approved. The folk concerned have written to the Department of Immigration but have received no reply. I sent these representations to the Minister on 22 October. On 5 November I received a telegram from him in which he said that the representations had been received and noted. He stated also: 
Am inquiring personally. Will advise. 
I advised the person concerned that the telegram from the Minister for Immigration had been received and that I would notify her as soon as I had received further information from the Minister. 
That was 5 November last year. I received a further communication from the lady concerned dated 12 February 1974. Following this, I made further representations to the Minister for Immigration on 15 February pointing out that I had received a further representation and stating that I would appreciate the Minister looking into the matter as it was now a matter of some urgency. I might say that the husband of the lady who wrote to me about this matter is not in good health and the family is concerned that the son should be allowed to come to Australia before anything of a fatal nature happens to the father. Having received no reply from the Minister to my communication of 15 February, on 19 February I sent a telegram to the Minister stating: 
Representations made 5th November, 1973 . . . As yet no decision given. Case is one of great urgency and see no reasonable explanation why a favourable reply not given. Awaiting urgent reply . . . 
I received no reply to that telegram and sent a second telegram to the Minister on 22 February which stated: 
Am still awaiting reply to telegram February 19th  . . in relation to son's passage to Australia. Appreciate your treating matter as urgent. Regards. . . . 
On 22 February I received in a reply a telegram from the Minister for Immigration. At least I will say that he is prompt in replying by telegram. The telegram stated: 
Telegram received. . . . Am endeavouring to finalise matter soonest. Will contact you again further. 
There has been no further communication from the Minister in regard to this matter. From 22 October when my first letter was sent to the Minister for Immigration and I first made representations in this regard - I say nothing about the original letter written by this lady in September because, as I said earlier, it was written to my State colleague who forwarded it on to me in October - to this day, no final decision has been made on this matter and I believe that nobody would dispute my statement when I said that there was something wrong with the administration of the Department of Immigration. If there is some reason - frankly, I could not appreciate why there would be a reason - why this lad and his wife and family are not able to come to Australia and if that reason could be given, further discussion and representation could take place. 
A great deal has been spoken about immigration and about all the various factors relating to immigration, yet here is a case which I think is - I use the word sincerely - a disgrace to the 'Department, that over a period of time the Department cannot give a reply to a member making representations. As I said, I do not think this is the only case where in my opinion there has been some neglect of facing up to the investigation of matters which is required within the Department. In one case, I asked the Department to give the name of a gentleman in Sydney on whom one of my constituents could call, as that person was going to Sydney himself on a matter on which I had made representations over a period of I think, some seven or eight weeks. The Department willingly gave me the name of a gentleman from the Department in Sydney, but when this constituent of mine went into the office of the Department in Sydney he was informed that there were no papers or representations concerning the application he had made. Yet on exactly the same day I received a telegram from the Minister for Immigration informing me that the person concerned had been interviewed in the country where the application originally had been made and that it was hoped that very soon that person would be given permission to enter Australia. So, frankly, I think that this case, plus the other cases to which I have referred show a need for the Minister for Immigration to pay a little more attention to what is happening in Sydney than travelling around overseas telling everybody what a marvellous Department of Immigration and Government we have and what can be done. I informed the Minister for Immigration that I intended to raise this matter this evening because I think that the length of time it has taken is beyond all bounds of reasonableness. I hope that the matter will be brought to fruition very quickly and that the man, his wife and family will be allowed to come out and join his parents in this country. 
I support strongly the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  to the motion for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply. Anyone who reads the Speech that  Her  Majesty made at the opening of Parliament can do nothing but condemn the Government. Speeches have been made by certain Government supporters extolling the fact that the Government has achieved this or that. I suppose that in nearly 16 months in government inevitably it much have achieved some success in some field. But when one looks at the Government's total record one wonders what the future of Australia really is. In matters such as defence, primary production, interest rates, postal services, Aborigines, pensions and the referenda or referendums - however one likes to say it - that have been put before this House one can see a degree of confusion and haste in most of the Government's legislation and in most of its actions. 
I want to refer to something that was mentioned by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  earlier today when he was speaking on the matter of public importance regarding inflation. He said that the Opposition wasted time in cheap urgency motions. I always thought that one of the tasks of an Opposition was to bring before the notice of the House matters of urgency and matters that concern the people of Australia. Surely the 2 matters to which he referred - the one yesterday relating to the superphosphate bounty which concerns primary production and the one today relating to inflation - are 2 matters of urgency because of the effect they have on this nation. They are 2 matters which I believe the Opposition should raise, and raise every day that this House sits. The Treasurer mentioned inflation. I would like to read to the House a certain paragraph from  Her  Majesty's Speech. She said: 
My Government believes the economy is basically strong and buoyant. Nevertheless, it regards inflation as a most urgent domestic problem and will continue its efforts to contain it. 
The honourable member for Hunter asks: 'What is wrong with that?' Like everything else that has been done by this Government, they are great words but they do not mean anything at all. They are not at all effective and, as I said, they prove conclusively all the arguments that were put forward in the discussion of the matter of public importance that was raised so capably by my colleagues in regard to the inflation which is confronting this country. When one looks at the policy of this Government one finds that there is confusion from one piece of legislation to the next. 
Unfortunately, some people in my electorate were gulled into voting for the Australian Labor Party at the last election. I am sure that they have learnt their lesson. One of the things they said was: 'If we have Labor in power it may have more influence with the unions and we will have more industrial peace; we will be able to go forward, to progress and to develop this country'. If that were not so serious it would be laughable. We have had more strikes, more unrest and more dissatisfaction in labour matters under this Government than under any previous government that one could name. 
As my colleague and friend the honourable member for Paterson said, there is a shortage of consumer goods. A great deal has been said about the floods and the problems that have been facing northern New South Wales and Queensland in recent weeks. Yet one of the problems that will face people in primary industry in these areas will be replacing fences, sheds, machinery and other things that have been lost in the floods. The problems of the floods and the difficulties of rehabilitation in those areas will be accentuated by the shortage of supplies that is facing the people of Australia at the moment. So, as I said, if it were not so tragic it would be laughable that people misguidedly voted for the Labor Party in the last election, believing that at least in one sphere there might be some semblance of order, some progress and some development. 
The amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition reads in part: 
Your Majesty was not informed by the Government of the true position in Australia in that it has: 
created an intolerably high level of inflation and has taken no effective steps to stop it; 
caused uncertainty and in its management of economy is. creating social inequities; 
attempted to change the Federal system of the Australian Constitution by diminishing the responsibility of the States; 
Anybody who has studied the Commonwealth since Federation will realise the importance of the part that the States have to play. By many of its actions this Government is doing everything possible to undermine the strength and the value of the States. The amendment continues: 
injured rural industries and the communities they support; 
pursued defence and foreign policies which have seriously weakened our defence capacity; and 
failed to fulfil the expectations of the Australian people because of its administrative incompetence. 
There is the true picture of what has happened to Australia since this Government came to. power. I ran through some matters very quickly. Let me now go through them in more detail. The first is the matter of defence. What has happened to the defence of this country since this Government came into power? The morale of the defence services of this country has never been lower. Yet the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  comes into this House and says literally that everything in the defence sphere is lovely. I say quite frankly that, if he thinks that, it shows that he knows nothing about the defence services and nothing about the factors relating to the defence of this country. Let him go out to some of the defence installations in Australia and talk to the servicemen who are engaged there. He will then find out their feelings about what this Government has done to the defence of the country. 
Much has been said about the association of the previous Government with the United States of America. I have mentioned this before. Previously, if we had things to say to leaders in the United States they were said in private and not blazoned as headlines in the newspapers of the world so that everybody could see our differences. 
There is an interjection from my friend the honourable member for Hunter. 
I say to my friend from Hunter what I said once before when the previous Government had been accused of going all the way with LBJ namely, that it is possibly better than to live and die with Chou En-lai. The way the present Government is going, we will be doing more dying than living. Nobody would say that a country such as China should be ignored, but to have discussions or an association with a country does not mean that we have to give away every single piece of prestige. If China had really and truly wanted to have dealings with Australia she would have accepted certain conditions that we would have put up. We did not need to go cap in hand and give away every single piece of prestige. I have said enough about defence. 
I now refer to primary production. As I said, the Opposition put forward as a matter of public importance She question of the removal of the superphosphate bounty. I read a comment in one of our newspapers - I think it was the 'Australian' - which said that there was a shortage of food in the world and that there was a danger in years ahead that the world would be very short of food. We know that problems in regard to food exist in many countries. I appreciate some of these problems and I accept the fact that in some cases, the problem is not so much one of a shortage of food itself as the lack of capacity to get food from where it is produced into certain areas. But it is suggested that there is a shortage of food. We have been talking about an energy crisis. I mentioned this in my own electorate the other day. The headlines of the newspapers have asked what is to be done in this circumstance or in that circumstance and saying that we should conserve our fuel and that we should do this and that we should do something else. It would be just as dangerous to the world to have a shortage of food as it would be to have a shortage of energy. Yet the people in the primary producing areas who contribute to the strength of the economy of this country are making this contribution with very little assistance from governments. This Government, instead of assisting the primary producers, is doing everything that it can to make conditions difficult and to reduce production. That was the great argument that members of my Party and Opposition members put forward during the debate on the superphosphate bounty. We should endeavour to do everything that we can to increase production and to help primary producers. 
As I have said, I have read reports on numerous occasions where people talk about the inefficiency of the farmer and say that by giving them subsidies and assistance we were only backing them up in their inefficiencies. Surely anybody who has any understanding of primary production realises the problems that are faced by the man on the land. As I said, we have seen such problems only in recent weeks. It was pointed out in the House that in certain areas where there had been a great deal of rain, now the farmers were finding it difficult to plough the ground because the ground was so hard. These are the problems faced by the farmer. The farmer sows his crop and waits for the harvest. He gets floods. He gets rain when it is not required and he gets droughts when he wants rain. He has absolutely no control over these things. 
That is right. As my friend the honourable member for Gwydir said, we even have a Minister who should know better making a remark which shows that he has no appreciation of the situation. These are the things which justify the amendment that has been moved by the Opposition and provide reasons why that amendment should be carried. 
I refer now to interest rates. The Australian Labor Party was the party which, before it became the Government, was going to help young people and which was going to make it easy for young people to purchase homes. 
As my friend, the honourable member for Calare said, they will not forget. 
If this Government is going to help young couples, heaven help them if this 
Government were not going to do anything. Interest rates are now, I think, the highest they have been in the history of this country. Certainly, they are the highest they have been for a long time. Young people buying homes are now faced with a greater commitment because of the increased interest charges or a longer period before they finally pay off their homes. These young people are struggling to live in this country during a period that this Labor Government said was going to be such a delightful experience under Labor. The increase in interest rates has also affected the man on the land. Again, the primary producer has been hit because, at a time when he is trying to battle against increased costs and when there is an inflationary spiral, he is met with increased interest rates so that his payments are increased, placing a further burden on him as he confronts many of the difficulties in his sphere of production. 
I refer now to postal services. I suppose, in a way, in this twentieth century, in 1974, we perhaps should drop the word 'services' because I really do not think there is much service in the postal services. One might almost say there is a lack of postal service. Again, of course, this situation hits the man on the land, and the people in country towns. It makes it more difficult for them. If a person lives in a metropolitan area, at least he has a neighbour next door to whom he can go and obtain some assistance. But, of course, in some of these country areas it is miles to the next door neighbour. I come now to the delivery of mail. 
That is right. There is not any. I refer to the delivery of mail as it affects newspapers. I appreciate that radio and television have helped to reduce the isolation of country areas but there is still the newspaper - the written word - to be considered. Because of the further reduction in postal services, not only is it costing the people a great deal more to get their newspapers but also it is taking longer for them to receive them. There are many other aspects of postal services that I could mention, but my colleagues both from the Australian Country Party and from the Liberal Party on numerous occasions have put forward cases relating to the reduction in services provided by the Postmaster-General's Department. 
Let me refer to the question of Aborigines. I have some experience with this matter because there are a number of Aborigines in the electorate of Lyne. The moderate, sensible Aboriginal who wants to make a contribution and who wants to be part of the community life has a fear in his heart because of the extremist and the ratbag who one could say is being almost encouraged by members of this Government. The true Aboriginal - the man who wants to accept his responsibility and who wants to play his part - is not the man in the demonstrations or the man who is causing all this trouble and confusion. Even the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  - this is one statement with which we can agree - said that the Government's policy in regard to Aborigines had been a disaster. One might say that he could say that about every section of the policy of the Government. However, he did say it about the Government's record in Aboriginal affairs, and basically, that statement is correct. 
I now come to the matter of social security and the increase in the pension. This is a delightful situation. The cost of living goes up so that the pensioner is about $4 or $5 a week worse off than he was before and so the Government gives him an extra $3 a week and says that everything in the garden is lovely. In addition to providing an increase in the pension because of the inflationary spiral, steps should also be taken to stop this inflationary spiral in which case, of course, not only would the pensioner be better off but also every man, woman and child and every industry in Australia would be better off. For those reasons I support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition. The people of Australia should read and digest the words of the amendment moved by the Opposition. It should be supported because it expresses in clear and concise terms the complete and absolute failure of the Government to fulfil any of its promises or to be an effective government of the Commonwealth of Australia. 

 - Mr Speaker, I seek leave to make a statement on the same subject. 
Order! I suggest to the honourable member for Denison that he might rephrase his comments. 
Politics in Australia has entered a new phase which not even the most professional of practitioners has yet fully appreciated. 
This has been amply demonstrated this week. 
That was last week. 
On Wednesday the Parliamentary Liberal Party decided after a lengthy debate that it was not in favour of changing the Australian flag. 
The decision was as surprising as it was relevant to Australian politics. Nobody has ever suggested changing the flag. 
At the same meeting the Liberals decided to oppose any move to change the Australian national anthem from 'God Save the Queen' because the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Snedden,  explained to Pressmen after the meeting any move to change the anthem amounted to a move away from the 'present constitutional structure'. 
I do not really understand what that comment means. 
Again, at the same meeting the Party decided to revert to its old practice of having a non-elective ministry - if and when it returns to power. 
It was a short lived reform for the Opposition. The article goes on: 
In a way the meeting was a continuation of the one the previous week, when  Mr Malcolm  Fraser declared his warm support for  Mr Snedden  because the party leader had declared that he favoured the free enterprise system and was against communism. 
Such is the stuff of Liberal parliamentary politics in 1974. 

 Mr Walsh goes on to say: 
On the face of it, this dispiriting preoccupation with irrelevancies, trivia and empty, shop-worn cliches from another era would have as its inevitable end the committal of the non-Labor parties to the Opposition benches for the foreseeable future. 
The performance of the party within the House on the first week did nothing to detract from this judgment. 
He goes on to refer to the Liberal Party as irrelevant, as having lack-lustre leadership, as having an obsession with forms rather than with substance and as having a complete lack of policy. This is one thing the Opposition ought to stop and think about when it continues to call for a general election. On what policies will it stand? I do not know what policies it has. Perhaps it is developing them. Members of the Opposition keep saying that they will develop them. They are taking their time about it. But they do not have any policies now. Is it that the policies they have are those they espoused during 1971, 1972 and the years leading up to the change of government? The people do not want that to happen again. The electorate does not want to go back to that same old tired sort of government. So I suggest that before the Opposition starts calling for an election, it should think about the policies on which it will stand. 
I said earlier that I was amazed at the sort of comments and smear tactics which the Opposition has been using. But on reflection I am not amazed; I am beginning to get used to it. I am rather sickened by it really. The honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes)  was carrying on again about defence. My impression is that the honourable member for Barker cannot wait for this country to get back into another, war. I am not sure that he would mind against whom the war was fought or in what country it was fought. He just likes to have a war in which this country is participating. This Government believes in peace and we are doing all we can to promote peace in this region and throughout the world. I suspect that the Opposition does not want peace. 
One other thing that members of the Opposition have been saying - it was referred to by the honourable member for Barker and the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  - is that the Government has not been practising the open government which it promised. I should like to rebut that allegation entirely. I think the Opposition's idea of open government is that it should make all the decisions, but it keeps forgetting that it is not in government anymore. The idea of open government is public involvement in the processes of government and public awareness of what the government is doing. This Government has acted on its promise. Let me mention just a handful of the inquiries that have been set in train to which members of the public have been invited to tell their story and to pass on their attitudes. The Australian Post Office Commission of Inquiry called for public reports. The Post Office has needed this inquiry for years. There are problems in the Post Office and they have to bc looked into. The previous Government allowed the Post Office just to continue on as it was and did nothing about it. We are having an inquiry which allows people to have their say. I certainly look forward to the result of that inquiry which will, of course, be published as are all the reports to which I refer. 
Referring again to defence, there is an inquiry into the future shape and structure of the Citizen Military Forces. There is an inquiry into the National Estate asking the people to let the Government know the sorts of things in the country - buildings, parklands and so forth - that they want to see preserved for the benefit of the nation. That report is due soon and it will be published and acted upon. There is the National Population Inquiry which recently has been having its hearings in Hobart. There are dozens of these inquiries. A report of an inquiry into frequency modulation broadcasting was tabled in the House this week. There are so many reports and inquiries in addition to the continuing inquiries. The Joint Parliamentary Committee on Prices has allowed groups and individuals in the community to have their say in what goes on in this country. All over the country in the last 15 months - and this will continue - people and groups have been preparing submissions and having a say, which they have never had before, in what goes on in this country. They are being listened to. 
Another example is the grants by the Department of the Environment and Conservation to local community groups to allow these groups to become their own environmental advocate. All sorts of local groups are now able to request grants to enable them to fight local councils, to fight legal battles and to prepare submissions on what should happen in their own area. Community involvement in what goes on in this country has been long delayed but is now occurring. 
I propose to refer to just a handful of the things that have been done by this Government in my electorate of Denison. This sort of general survey can be related to other electorates throughout this country. I do not pretend that the list of items I will give represents a comprehensive survey. They are just some of the things that have benefited the people of the electorate of Denison, the people of Hobart and the people of Tasmania as a whole. Before I mention them I ask honourable members to stop and think for a moment about how many of these things would have happened if the previous Government had continued in office and how many of them would happen if honourable members opposite gained office again. I will not mention in detail the actions taken in respect of education. There has been a huge increase in the grants for education throughout this country and this has benefited my electorate. There have been additional grants for schools that really need money. Provision has been made for additional teacher centres and the upgrading of the status and conditions of employment of teachers to assist them to be better in their profession. 
Provision has been made to erect 3 new child care centres in my electorate alone and possibly a fourth one in the Hobart area. These centres, of course, were long overdue. People in other areas are also demanding them. It is unfortunate that we cannot provide them as quickly as the need requires, but we are doing our best. These child care centres are of high quality, and I suppose that this is one of the problems. There are delays in providing more of them because we are insisting on high quality centres rather than just spreading them across the ground as quickly as possible without caring about the quality of the educational and care facilities in them. 
One of the things that have come to my attention is the grant of $40,000 to the Tasmanian College of Advanced Education to set up a social work course. This is particularly important because there has been an insufficient output of social workers in this country and as a result of our welfare policies we will need more of them. This grant was one of the earlier ones which were made. A grant also was made to the College of Advanced Education in Hobart for the purpose of producing more trained pre-school teachers. I also refer to the Australian assistance plan. In this respect a regional council is being formed at the moment for the southern region of Tasmania. This is a far-sighted and novel concept. Again it involves community involvement in determining and planning welfare policies at the local level, with everybody, including the recipients of welfare services, being involved. I think this is an example which gives the lie to the rather boring complaints that the Opposition makes about centralism. This Government is giving local communities a much bigger say in what goes on. 
Provision also has been made for extensions to the School of Dental Nursing in Hobart which will enable a greater output of dental nurses for employment in school services. The Australian Government is meeting the full capital cost of this project and 70 per cent of the running costs. Three community health centres and 3 mental health clinics are to be set up. There will be an assessment centre for mentally and physically handicapped children. At last the handicaped children in this country are beginning to get a better deal. They have been neglected for so long. The grant to the Housing Department in Tasmania has been increased by 86 per cent compared with the grant made by the previous Government. But there are problems in providing houses as quickly as I would like them to be provided. The problems have arisen because of the shortage of materials and labour. This is being tackled as quickly as possible. There is a $lm grant for Hobart's bus services to upgrade urban public transport in the city. Also there is the provision of specific road safety grants for the purpose of upgrading and making safer poor intersections that are the cause of many accidents. The provision of these grants by the Government will mean that the State Government will not have to use so much of its funds set aside for general road grants which would otherwise be the case. 
The Department of Science and the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation is surveying the unfortunate metal pollution in the Derwent River. Also $lm has been allocated to Launceston and Hobart to help correct the backlog in the provision of sewerage in those cities. The National Estate of course will benefit Hobart probably more than any other place in Australia because there is so much worth keeping and labelling as part of the national estate in this city. A grant of $40,000 has been allocated for the construction of an indoor sports centre in the suburb of Kingston in my electorate. Just last week an announcement was made that $60,000 would be allocated towards the building of an athletic centre in Hobart which will enable the Australian athletic championships to be held for the first time in Hobart. Previously Hobart did not have an international standard track. 
The Department of Labour is providing a career reference service in Hobart. These are just some of the things which this Government is providing that would not have been provided by the previous Government had it regained office. I ask the House again: How many of those things would have been done if we had continued with the previous government? 
Both the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Sherry)  and I saw the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  last week and this week about the upgrading of passenger facilities at Hobart airport. In 1969  Mr Swartz,  the then Minister for Civil Aviation, said that the airport terminal at Hobart would be improved in 5 years. That period is up now. If the former Minister had done something more than just make that statement perhaps we would already have an improved airport terminal. I hope that the present Minister will be able to do something about it. I hope that he will respond quickly to the representations that have been made by the honourable member for Franklin and me. 
I intended to refer to the transfer of the Antarctic Division of the Department of Science to Hobart which will be of such benefit to that city and Tasmania. But as my time has almost run out I will have to leave this subject for another occasion when I can concentrate solely on it. I just want to point out to the House the overwhelming response that this decision has received in Hobart. I mentioned in my maiden speech, and I refer to it again, the need for decentralisation of Commonwealth departments. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Order! The honourable member for Adelaide has now sought to make a further personal explanation. I will hear what the honourable member for Adelaide has to say. I would like him to be as brief and concise as possible. 

 Mr HURFORD (Adelaide)- The House knows that for a number of years I have been involved with a number of organisations, in company with relations of the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson).  It would have been far wider known if I had supported the cause of those people seeking concessional deductions for gifts for organisations like Austcare and Community Aid Abroad which deal with aid to foreign countries. In fact I have felt strongly that if such aid were given from public funds the Government would have to be more involved with those organisations. 
I ask the PostmasterGeneral: Will he give an undertaking that before any final decision is made regarding the regrading of any post office the member in whose electorate that post office is situated will be consulted? 
 Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Order! Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 

<graphic href="088131197404106_33_0.jpg"></graphic>

Although they do not know it, 400,000 people, mostly young, who are in institutions of education not assisted by the universities, colleges of advanced education or schools commissions owe  Mr Kangan  and his Committee a debt of gratitude. I express my thanks to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  for his immediate recognition of the need for a committee and ultimately a Commission to cover this gap. Finally, I express thanks to the State governments for their action in releasing officers to serve on the Committee, for their granting of access to the Committee to their institutions, and for their meticulous preparation of information and statistics. The history of technical education has never been bedevilled with religious and denominational rivalries, nor seriously plagued with social divisions, privilege, and obvious snobbery. For these reasons one can anticipate that no vested interests will fight the implementation of this report and the Parliament and the nation will recognise that its recommendations are essential. I commend the report to the Parliament. I present the following paper: 
Australian Committee on Technical and Further Education- Ministerial Statement, 10 April 1974. 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the papers. - 
I think perhaps the Treasurer should seek leave to make a statement. 
I take the opportunity now of thanking the mover and seconder of my nomination for the position of  Chairman  of Committees and those who gave me their support, and of congratulating the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  on his being appointed  Chairman  of Committees and  Deputy Speaker  of this House. I know that the task is not an easy one. I offer him my congratulations and best wishes, as I do to you,  Mr Speaker,  on your appointment. I say to you,  Sir, and  the honourable member for Corio that I will be only too willing at any stage during this Parliament to give you whatever assistance I may be able to give. 
-We might call this legislation not the Forsythe Saga but the Daly Saga because the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  has brought it before this House on a number of occasions. This Bill is the third in the trio of Bills that have been discussed in this chamber this evening. One trend runs through it, and that is this endeavour, as has been pointed out by all the other Opposition speakers, of the Labor Party to get maximum, advantage out of the political situation. The honourable member foi Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  said that he could not understand why the Opposition was criticising the legislation because there would be no political advantage as each side of the chamber would gain a member. Of course, the point that perhaps he cannot see is that it is a matter of principle. This is why I was most disappointed with the comments of the Minister in regard to my colleague the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder).  No man in his House has represented an electorate with more sincerity and more purpose than has the honourable member for the Northern Territory. 
In this chamber we should be conscious of our own failures and weaknesses as representatives and I think the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant)  might be more conscious of that, if he has anything to be conscious about, than anybody else. The attack this evening made by the Minister for Services and Property on the honourable member for the Northern Territory was completely unwarranted. The honourable member for the Northern Territory has stated his view on more than one occasion and has indicated1 - colleagues in his Party have disagreed with him - support for representation of the Northern Territory in the Senate. The principle behind this question is a principle of differentiation of representation in the Senate. Let us realise that the Labor Party does not agree with the importance of the Senate and would like it if it could get rid of it. So of course there is no matter of principle involved for members of the Labor Party. 
This legislation provides for a differentiation of senators. This Government with its centralised policy has a desire to destroy the States and one can appreciate that it has no conception or appreciation of the stand that should be taken on State representation in the Senate. The. principle here is, as I said, that the Bill provides for a differentiation of senators. What wilt happen is that half of the Senate will go out every 3 years but the senators representing the Territories will go out at every House of Representatives election. What a shemozzle there would be in the Senate. There would be no consistency of representation in the Senate if this legislation were allowed to be passed. Opposition members, believing in the importance of the Senate say that this is an important issue which goes beyond party politics. It is a matter which concerns the Constitution. It is a matter of vital concern to the people of Australia and particularly so with the election of a Labor Party to the Treasury bench in the House of Representatives because it wants to get a complete and absolute stranglehold as a centralised1 government in Canberra. This is the real issue. 
Opposition members stand up in this chamber and say: 'No, because it is against the Constitution, because it is difficult, because it raises so many complexities we cannot accept it. It is undermining the Constitution without the will of the people of Australia being expressed for a change in that Constitution'. Immediately honourable members on the Government side say that we are not interested in the people of the Australian Capital Territory or the people of the Northern Territory and the only reason that we oppose the legislation is that we do not want to give representation to the people in the Northern Territory or the Australian Capital Territory. We should not forget that this is the crowd that is saying that it does not matter how big an electorate is or if one is a country representative - I am not talking about the Country Party, I am talking about Labor, Liberal or Country Party members - and that it does not matter whether one's electorate is 50,000 or 100,000 square miles as long as it contains exactly the same number of people to represent as the electorate of the Minister for Services and Property, who represents a little pocket handkerchief electorate in Sydney.  His  constituents in many instances do not understand the circumstances, the vastness, the importance and the complexities that are associated with the development of this great nation. Government supporters say that it does not matter how big is one's electorate. These are the people who are now saying: 'We have to do this. It does not matter how much it upsets the Constitution. It does not matter how much it destroys the Senate as a States House. We have to give these poor people in the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory Senate representation.' We should not forget, as was pointed out by a previous  speaker,  that the Government's proposal is to have 2 Senate representatives of the Northern Territory when it has only one member in the House of Representatives. This means that while we say that every State - we include Tasmania, Western Australia and South Australia as the small States - shall have 10 representatives in the Senate irrespective of the number of re- representatives from each State in the House of Representatives- 
Tasmania has particular and specific circumstances which were allowed for in the Constitution. It is a State of this Commonwealth. I remind the honourable member that Tasmania is a State even though one has to cross water to get to it. We have 10 senators representing each State and it is proposed that there shall be 2 senators to represent the Northern Territory in the Senate as against 1 member to represent it in the House of Representatives. This shows completely and absolutely how illogical a government can be when it desires to grasp power in any way, when it will do anything to get centralised control. 
This is another warning to the people of Australia. Heaven knows we have given them enough and they have not seemed to wake up to them yet. Our Press people at the moment seem to see a little glimmering of truth in what we have been trying to get through ever since the Australian Labor Party came into power in 1972. This legislation is further evidence of the fact that there is a continuation of the desire to grasp power, to get centralised control. 
The honourable member for Casey says: 'How will it work?' He has been one of the greatest advocates of it for many years. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Luchetti)  - Order! The time allotted for the Committee stage of the Bill has expired. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 

Order! I remind the honourable member for Griffith that the motion before the House does not allow for a general debate on road safety, nor does it permit representations to be made to the Minister on varying subjects. I suggest that the honourable member might consider that the debate on the previous motion to reappoint another committee unfortunately involved matters that did not really concern the House. That debate was a little broader than it should have been. I suggest that the honourable member for Griffith leave to another time the matter he is raising at the moment. 
Government should not be involved in these areas when the States already have machinery in existence. The simple answer to the problem is that if the Commonwealth Government has the money today to meet the extra cost of research into road safety, that money should be handed to the State governments - ever if it were tied to section 96 of the Constitution - with a request that the money be spent on road safety. 
Order! The honourable gentleman's time has expired. 

 Mr MALCOLM FRASER (Wannon)-  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I wish to raise the matter of the supply of fuel, particularly to country areas. In the last 18 months or 2 years country areas have had a serious problem each time there has been an industrial dispute in the fuel industry. This has had a detrimental effect on many industries, not only in my electorate but in aU country areas. Only recently I heard something which was most disturbing, and that was that a man who owns a petrol station had additional tank capacity installed at his station to build up a reserve so that in the event of any industrial difficulties he would have sufficient fuel to carry on for some time. I Will not mention his name because of the danger of victimisation. As his station is on one of our main highways, it would be of tremendous advantage to him and to the travelling public if he had additional supplies. When the supplies arrived he said that he wanted a certain amount of petrol. He was told that he could receive only X gallons. He said that the amount was not sufficient for him, that he had additional tanks installed so that he could carry extra supplies. He was told by the driver that he would receive a certain amount and that was all, that if he did not want to take it, he may not get any supplies. Upon contacting the oil company he was informed that this was the situation, that the driver was one of the top union men and that, literally if the driver said that he would get only a certain amount of petrol, that was the situation. 
I think there are 2 points in this matter. Firstly, the refusal to supply extra petrol impinges upon the freedom of the individual- a man in business -to obtain the supplies he desires and needs. Secondly, it places the transport sector in a serious psition because if supplies can be held down to a certain level and if there is a strike the unions have a greater opportunity to hold the public at ransom. I remember not so long ago in this Parliament the late  Sir Wilfrid  Kent Hughes saying something to which more people in Australia ought to have given attention. The words of that distinguished gentleman were that if the left wing of the communist unions obtained control of the power union, the transport union and the supply union it could bring this country to its knees. With the industrial disputes in the supply and transport areas we have seen this almost happening. 
As my friend, the honourable member for Darling Downs, has said, in many instances the disputes have been encouraged by the present Government. I think the situation I have outlined really needs looking at. It is said that the oil companies were using stand-over tactics. This situation was brought about by stand-over tactics by a union organiser. I really think the matter should be investigated. The Minister for Transport might be well advised to look at the situation so that in both the industrial field and the transport field country areas at least are not penalised any more as they have been over recent months. In more than one area in my own electorate industry was affected because it was not able to get distillate. The supply of fuel is important in any area but in country areas it is a great deal more important. I would suggest that the Minister look at the situation to find out the truth and do something to help country areas. 
-A passing reference to an associated aspect would be acceptable. I ask the honourable member for Cowper not to develop that argument in relation to this legislation. 
It is important that the Government should take a fresh look at what is happening in relation to the national service provided by the Australian Broadcasting Commission. With the rapid growth of population, particularly along the eastern seaboard, circumstances have been created in which very many radio listeners are still restricted to the reception of one effective radio channel. As a consequence, the listening opportunities for these people are affected and the standard of service likewise to these people is lower. If we were to refer to an assessment that has been made in quite recent times, this disparity is pointed up very clearly indeed. It is fair to say that even the broadcast of parliamentary proceedings, whilst not the most popular session on radio, is certainly listened to by a number of Australians. But there are very many people in many electorates in our country who will tell one very clearly that they are not able to listen to the parliamentary proceedings because they cannot pick up the radio signal through which this broadcast is made available to radio listeners. 
Similarly, for reasons that are quite apparent and understood by many people television viewing opportunities are restricted. There are great limitations in the coverage that is provided by the national service. The decision to introduce colour television in Australia was made comparatively recently. Once that decision was made, a great cost factor was introduced into the provision of those services and the provision of the means for people to be afforded an opportunity to view colour television through the national service. The same situation applies to commercial television operations. I believe that if there is to be real equality- that is undoubtedly the objective of this measure to remove the licence fee- that equality must be quickly extended to provide equal viewing opportunities to all sections of the community- not just to capital cities, metropolitan areas or the suburbia of Sydney and Melbourne, but to the rest of Australia. 
If this is to be the pattern, I hope that it will be done on a fair and equitable basis. I hope that we will not see a repetition of what has been perpetrated through the administration of the Department of Minerals and Energy with respect to the gas pipeline among many other aspects where what might be regarded as a very good relationship between commercial enterprise and the government sector has been wiped aside and something else- a totally government operationhas been put in its place. I hope that this proposal does not mean that henceforth a policy will be perpetrated seeking real nationalisation of the media. If that is what is intended, it would be very wrong indeed. If the only justification for such action is that the public will be paying for these services through Budget provisions as distinct from a licensing system, that would be an even worse approach. We certainly do not want to see that happening. 
I return to the precise provisions of the Bill which seeks the abolition of the broadcasting and television licence fee paid by listeners and viewers. The removal of this charge certainly will be welcomed by every Australian who owns and uses a radio set and/or a television set. I think approximately 3.5 million Australians are licence holders. Those who receive some concessions in respect of these services- I think half a million pensioners are involved- in future will not be required to pay any charge whatsoever. They certainly will welcome this move. 
We support the measure on the ground that it is action in a direction which seems to make very good sense. But we hope that its whole import will be related to that principle and not to something else. There is no doubt that one of the intricacies of this matter- and of course it is the Australian attitude that is important - 
I must not conclude without reminding the House of action taken in the last few weeks by the Minister for Science  (Mr Morrison),  who is sitting at the table. That action was to make a very vicious attack on one section of the community in relation to advertising. If my memory serves me correctly, a commission of inquiry was appointed to investigate the television advertising of soap. 
-If what the Minister says is correct, and there is an inquiry on that matter, at the moment it might be wise for the honourable member not to make comments in relation to it. 
Finally, the measure is a pace setter by which, I hope, we will have a means of ensuring that this House, particularly at Budget time in the future, has some direct reference to this matter. We do not want to find in the future a single entry in the Budget termed 'Expenditure on national service broadcasting and television'. We want to see something that gives an accountability to Parliament, something that goes a little beyond that. I make an appeal to the Government to ensure that this change also brings in its wake other changes of the sort to which I have just referred The Opposition supports the measure. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 

<graphic href="090131197009195_85_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="090131197009195_86_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="090131197009195_87_2.jpg"></graphic>

The Minister, of course, has not given us in his speech the details we are looking for. But we of the Opposition do not need a north Australian cattle dog to yard him- he is easily yarded as was proved on 18 May. The assessed price structure for wheat for 1974-75 is Sl.91.7c per bushel and the home consumption price for 1974-75 will be obtained by indexing this price forward according to movements in cash cost and rail freight and handling costs, and adding a loading to cover the cost of exporting wheat to Tasmania. These cash costs which will be declared in October next, consist of labour, contracts, electricity, petroleum products, fertiliser, seed, repairs, cornsacks and twine, chemicals, cartage, rates and taxes, insurance, motor registration, interest paid, miscellaneous and any movements in rail freight and handling costs. I understand a survey has been undertaken by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics and the data received based on a notional mid term figure as at the end of 1970-71 indicated a base price of indexing forward should be the figure of $1.91.7 already quoted. In this figure, the owner-operators allowance was established at $2,639 per annum, with the relative weighting being given to the wheat farming enterprise. But the owner-operators allowance has only been used in establishing this assessed price structure and is not to be part of the indexing forward for this year. We take umbrage at this. We want the Minister to assure us, not in glib hackneyed tones which seek to dodge the point and cloud the issue like the Minister in another place whom he represents, but we want a solemn undertaking that for indexing forward for the year 1975-76 an allowance will be made for the owner-operators allowance. We want to know how it will be included as an item. Will it be under the cash costs or a separate item? We want the Minister to tell us. We do not want warning. We want facts and we want the truth. In these days too, when the owner-operator is not only labourer, but also scientist, economist, and philosopher it is submitted that it would be far more appropriate- certainly more just- to apportion this allowance as between a factor of labour and a factor of management, with the allowance being based on a similar award and not just a labour only basis. We object to the owneroperators allowance being constant. It must vary each year in line with other wage increases. We will not stand idly by while the quality of Aus.tralian rural life deteriorates and the farmers are banished by a hostile Labor Government to economic wilderness. Surely the Government is not so blind as to be unable to see that this is not only economic madness but it is also economic blindness. I want to point out that if the owneroperators allowance had been a variable and not a fixed term item in the year 1971-72, the home consumption price would have been increased by 1.16c per bushel and in 1972-73 by another 1.73c in addition. And it would have been just- a return of increase in the economic bloodstream to where it belonged, to its rightful owner, the farmer, and it would have had very little effect on the price of bread. 
The Government starts off this scheme backed by grower's money, $48.2m. The worst possible draw on the people's fund will be $80m, but this is unlikely to happen. But remember that the industry is already subsidising the population this year by $l07.865m. The Government contribution to stabilisation should be by way of grants as provided previously, not loans. The Government is so guarded that it requires payment to it of any surplus accruing from time to time forthwith, and will not allow the scheme to be finalised at the end of the term. What a petty outlook. If it was not so important, one could almost laugh at the Government's telegraphed poisonous views on rural people and people who depend on rural industry. 
There are some changes in the wording of the legislation on which I invite the Minister's comments, either now or in the Committee stage. First I refer to clause 11, sub-clauses (1), (2) (a) and (2) (b), which differ from the relative section 10 in the previous Act. There is a change in wording, emphasis and format. What sinister reasoning is behind the inclusion of the words 'reason of misbehaviour' and the changing of the word 'may' to 'shall' in sub-clause (2). This is obviously socialised centralistic control. No longer is the Minister to have a discretion as to what he shah do as the clause dictates. Obviously this is a reflection of left wing control in Caucus. The Minister is being told what he is to do. He is not strong enough to resist. He is letting the industry down and is recreant to his responsibilities. Will the Minister tell us what 'mischievous behaviour' is? Will a member be removed because he will not accept a bad directive from the Government? Will he be able to defend himself or will he be summarily ejected? I want to protest also at the sense of Government control that permeates the legislation. I want the Minister to tell us that the Government will not remove decent members of the Australian Wheat Board from the positions to which they have been elected by rank and file wheat growers and replace them with Al Grassby, Jack Egerton, Bob Hawke and even Jack Mundey or Halfpenny. We want the Minister to tell us what he means when he says that a member of the Australian Wheat Boac can be removed for 'mischievous behaviour'. 
We want to ask: When a directive is issued by the Minister for wheat to be sold on terms as in instrument of foreign policy, will the Minister assure us that the Government will meet all expenses including forward exchange cover at present costing 4 per cent. Will the Government pay the loss due to interest which cannot be expected to match the present all time high rate charged by the Rural Credits Department of the Reserve Bank on overdraft from the Board? This increased interest rate in itself will cost the wheat grower many thousands of dollars in an ordinary year. Will the Government, when it is using the wheat industry as an instrument of foreign policy, pick up the bill for increased storage and handling charges? Its actions give us no reason for confidence. Rather, they give us increasing cause for concern. We do not trust the word of the Government. We want these things down on paper where they cannot be erased and by which the Government can be brought to judgement. The honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan)  was easily torpedoed by the honourable member for Wimmera when he said: 'We have increased the first advance to $1.20. The Government is kicking us in the teeth when we are down by increasing interest on overdraft and with inflation running at a record level, as reported in today's Press, of 20 per cent. What utter hypocrisy the Government has put forward in this debate. 
I ask: What type of Minister have we? Is it not about time that he grasped the nettle and stood up and was counted? He is a prisoner of the Treasurer. I refer to clause 35, sub-clause (2) (c) and clause 36 sub-clause (2). In the old legislation the only power the Treasurer had was to approve of a bank but now the Minister is subservient to the Treasurer. He cannot even handle his own portfolio. The wheat industry is not a mechanical toy to be wound up or used in a game of tug-of-war with the Minister who is obviously being sawn off at the knees for having the effrontery to support Whitlam and to challenge the left wing machine. He was cleaned up and now he is letting the industry down. He will not fight for us. Can anyone imagine the great fighters for rural industry- my leaders the Right Honourable J. D. Anthony and the Honourable I. Sinclair- allowing themselves to be dictated to by Treasury or allowing Treasury to interfere in their departments? In good old dinky-di Australian language of the bush that just would not be on. But the present Minister is pushed around. He is merely a piece of flotsam gathering moss. The honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  said: 'They are statesmen'. We have only an apology now. 
The final point I want to canvass is costs. I have a list showing the increases in wages paid to employees of the State Wheat Board of Queensland from 22 December 1969 to 1 July 1974. 1 seek the leave of the House to have that list incorporated in Hansard. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 

<graphic href="090131197009254_49_1.jpg"></graphic>

A further disturbing feature of the Budget is its contractionary impact on private investment. The Budget papers themselves forecast a decline in fixed investment by the business community. An approximate calculation, based on the Budget's own assumptions, shows that real private investment spending could decline by around 2 per cent during 1974-75. The situation could be even more serious. The Budget papers predict that 'substantial- and largely unplannedincreases in stocks could occur'. This would, of course, greatly exacerbate the decline in investment. We recall today, with some sense of nostalgia, that investment was both a dynamic and a leading factor in Australia's economic growth between 1950 and 1965. But, real investment at the present time is now marginally below the level established in 1965. 1 seek leave to incorporate in Hansard a further table showing the position. 
I want to make 2 comments before I speak on the Budget. Firstly, I am delighted to see the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  in the chamber at the moment because I want to say something about his work as the Minister for Social Services and Property. I believe that I have some justification in making these comments because as a  Deputy Speaker  in this House for 12 years I know that there were certain privileges attached to that office that were not given to back benchers. I want to place on record my appreciation of what the Minister has done for back benchers since his Government took office. I might disagree with him completely on his political philosophy, but I do say quite sincerely that he has done more for back benchers in this Parliament than any other Minister in the last 25 years. I would also like to take this opportunity of placing on record my appreciation of his leadership of the Australian delegation at the recent Commonwealth Parliamentary Association conference at Colombo. He did a job; he led the delegation well and he presented Australia's case and held Australia's prestige high at that conference. I would also like to express my appreciation to the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren).  When he replies to people in my electorate who have written to him directly he never fails to send a copy of the letter to me. That is a courtesy I certainly appreciate. 
Unfortunately, I cannot go on in complimentary terms about the Budget. I think it is the worst Budget that has been presented in this House during the time that I have been a member. If one looks in the Treasurer's speech at the factors relating to the fiscal policies of this country I am sure one will shudder for the future of Australia under the present Government and under the present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and Treasurer  (Mr Crean).  One factor in the amendment moved by the Leader of the Oppositiongovernment power is further centralised- is a criticism that I have made of government, of the Executive, not only from this side of the House in opposition but also when my party has been in government. I often wonder whether the people of Australia realise exactly what is happening in this country. I know a number of people have said: 'Is it not better to have control in Canberra where you have one government? In matters concerning the whole of Australia it is better to have a decision made where one authority with one executive control can make that decision.' But recently there have been a series of articles in our newspapers talking about the power of the Public Service and the control it sometimes exercises over Ministers in government. I believe that if this power were centralised in Canberra to a greater degree- and there is this tendency at the moment- then the bureaucracy would become so powerful that it would be dangerous to the future progress and development of Australia. 
There are deputations going to Ministers in the State parliaments and some deputations coming to Federal Ministers. Centralise that procedure in Canberra- and I do not mind whether it is a Liberal Party-Country Party government or a Labor Party government in power- and it would be impossible for a Minister to see all the deputations and all the people who would desire to come to Canberra to place their case before him. In saying this I am not denigrating the Public Service. I believe it has its place and I believe it does a job in the government of this country, but if there is a situation where it is impossible for a Minister to see deputations and make decisions, and those decisions are then made by the bureaucracy, by persons who have no ultimate responsibility to the people, I believe that is dangerous and detrimental to the future progress of this country. I believe therefore that among the other comments in the amendment the comment that government power is further centralised reflects something that should cause concern to all people in Australia. 
I said that the Budget was normally the presentation of the fiscal policy of a government. If after a period of time, after six or seven months, there should be some alteration in that fiscal policy then we have a mini Budget or a supplementary Budget presented towards the end of the fiscal year. We have seen within 10 days a decision made which we were informed today would ultimately go to Cabinet and be decided and evidently agreed upon. We-have seen a very important decision regarding fiscal matters in this country made by a committee of the Government, a Caucus committee, an economics committee, and the  chairman  of that committee is a member of this Parliament with no Cabinet responsibility. Yet this committee has considered the matter of the surtax which was to be levied on the income people receive from investments. Surely this changes a great deal the fiscal policy presented by the Treasurer only 10 or 1 1 days ago? Admittedly the Government says it made a mistake. If a mistake was made surely it was one that was obvious and one that we had pointed out on numerous occasions was detrimental to many people in this country. Unfortunately, I believe it indicates a danger point in the thinking of members of the Government. 
Anyone who has money invested is to be attacked, in the minds of some Government members. Anyone who has saved money, who has made an effort to improve his situation, is someone to be attacked, according to some members of the Government. Surely this is something those people should have realised for themselves. There are literally thousands of people in this country, little people, who receive money from superannuation, who have been able under a Liberal-Country Party government to save money. The money they invested augmented their pensions and allowed them to have certain benefits, certain extras which they could buy with an income over and above a pension. In its desire to take away from anybody who has anything at aU this Government put forward the proposal for the surtax. It was only when the proposals saw the cold light of day and came out into the political realities of this country that the Government realised the people who were going to behit were people who would normally be supporting it. The Government turned round and within 10 days of the presentation of the Budget- 
As my friend and colleague the honourable member for Darling Downs says, a second-class Budget. Perhaps he is over complimentary to it. In this limited period of time a decision was made to alter one of the basic factors of the Budget, and surely therefore one of the basic factors in the fiscal policy of this country. Might I make some brief comment in regard to the investment factor. We heard a great deal from members of the Government, when they were in opposition, about the then Liberal PartyCountry Party government selling Australia to overseas interests. One of the suggestions made by the then Opposition was that there should be established a group or organisation in which Australians would be able to invest their money and this organisation could then 'buy back some of the farm'. Having said that, in this Budget the Government then brings down a policy that is going to penalise the very people they want to help buy back the farm. 
My colleague mentions increased telephone charges. I will have something to say about that at a later stage. These increased charges affect not only the pensioner but also many other people to whom a telephone is a necessity. Unfortunately the telephone service has deteriorated tremendously in recent months under the present Labor Government. 
When the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  was talking about the expenditure of the Government contributing to the inflationary spiral, one of the members on the Government side asked: 'What would you cut down on?' This of course is one of the catch cries that is put forward by members on the Government side when members of the Opposition say that the expenditure of the Government is far too high. First of all, let me say that it is most unwise to try to do everything at once, because if a government tries to do everything at once it ultimately does not achieve major progress. What is the value of spending$100m, for example, on education if we have a 20 per cent inflation rate that actually brings the net worth of that sum down to possibly $80m over a period? Surely it is far better for a government to have a sound, basic fiscal policy and spend $80m which it knows will have a value of $80m. 
This is what the Leader of the Opposition and the Leader of my Party, the Australian Country Party, said when they were campaigning in the recent election. If the Country Party and the Liberal Party formed the Government they would have a policy which would stabilise the economy, and the actual expenditure it would put forward would be a basic expenditure which would give a greater net return than the expenditure by the present Labor Government. When the Leader of my Party was making his speech on the Budget the other day he talked about people having put money away for a rainy day. Unfortunately, since the members of the Labor Party have come to the Treasury benches, they have not had merely a rainy day; they have had a tornado that is almost sweeping them away into the limbo of the lost. 
My colleague, the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King),  spoke about the increase in postal charges to the pensioner. There has of course been an increase in postal charges in general. I will accept the problem that confronted the previous Postmaster-General, who is now the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  and the present PostmasterGeneral  (Senator Bishop).  I believe that a mistake was made by the Liberal and Country Parties when they were in government in making the Postmaster-General's Department pay interest on capital expenditure. I have always argued that this was completely and absolutely wrong. I will accept the fact that that was a problem given to the present Government by the previous Government. But having said that, I believe that the present Government has approached the problems of the Postmaster-General's Department from the wrong angle. I concede that the report of the royal commission into the Post Office which has been tabled in the Parliament and presented to the Postmaster-General's Department still has to be implemented. 
If Australia is to progress and develop as it should and if it is to overcome the problems of having approximately 6 million people in Sydney and Melbourne, without mentioning the population in the other capital cities, and a minimum population in the outer areas of Australia, we must tackle seriously the problem of decentralisation. This is one area in which I disagree completely with the Minister for Urban and Regional Development. I oppose completely and absolutely forced growth centres like AlburyWodonga. I think that they are among the worst things that can be proposed by a government. Local government should be given all the assistance possible and allowed to carry out its own decentralisation programs. I believe that the Minister for Urban and Regional Development has been in my area on occasions, but if he comes into my area again he will see local government authorities such as the Hasting Shire Council, the Manning Shire Council and the Taree and Wingham Municipal Councils and many other councils establishing and developing industries in their areas which are adding to the population. The Taree Municipal Council wrote a letter recently expressing concern at the effect the present Government's policy would have on its programs of decentralisation. I believe that reforms in the field of the Postmaster-General's Department can be one of the greatest contributing factors towards decentralisation. 
-I will have a talk to the Minister afterwards about money, because I think that finance from his Department can be used to a far better and greater degree than it is. As I said, I believe that the Postmaster-General's Department is one sphere in which a great contribution to decentralisation can be made. The Government is encouraging the establishment of industries in country areas but it is adding to the burden of their communication costs and has increased interest rates on their capital borrowings. It is all right to say that these costs are a taxation deduction for a business, but when an industry is establishing itself increased costs can frequently make a difference between that industry being a success or a failure. I would suggest to the Government that it have a further look at the assistance it can give to establish industry in country areas. The New South Wales State Government has made a tremendous contribution to decentralisation in New South Wales, and I believe it needs all the assistance and all the encouragement it can get, as industry needs assistance and encouragement to establish itself in country areas. 
If we are to have people in country areas- we have said this many times before, but I believe it has to be said again- telephone and telephonic communication services for people in country areas is an urgent necessity. I do not say that these services are not needed in metropolitan areas, but in country areas, apart from any other factor, a telephone can frequently mean the difference between the life and death of a person. Therefore the Postmaster-General's Department should approach the provision of these facilities in country areas in that light It should not merely look at the financial factor but at the service to the community. If this were done the ultimate gain and the ultimate benefit would come back to Australia as a whole. Not only would we be developing country areas but we would be developing and progressing in Australia as a whole. It is for these and of course many other reasons that cannot be covered in the time at my disposal that I strongly support the amendment moved by the Opposition and condemn the Government on its 1974-75 Budget. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering both measures? There being no objection, I shall allow that course to be followed. 
I appreciate the fact that an agreement has been made in regard to the number of speakers in this debate being limited. I will not delay the House for very long. I just want to place on record the fact that I was gagged during consideration of the estimates for the Department of Foreign Affairs when only one hour and 15 minutes was set aside to consider what are some of the most important estimates to go before the Committee. I want to add my protest to the fact that not sufficient time has been given by the Government in this Parliament to debate foreign affairs, which is of vital importance to this country at any stage, but I believe more particularly at this moment. 
-The only comment I want to make just briefly and quickly about what has been said by the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  is that I think we should all realise that if it were not for political expediency within both the United Nations and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, the situation in the Middle East- in Palestine in particular- could be solved within a very short space of time. It is, unfortunately, because both of those countries are playing politics that we are in the situation in which we find ourselves today. I do not want to make any other comment on the other matters mentioned by the honourable member for Robertson. 
In the remaining moments of this adjournment debate I wish briefly to express my complete and utter disgust at the action of the airline pilots in striking for 24 hours tomorrow. I am not concerned about the reasons for their strike or anything else like that. The inconvenience of such a strike to the public was exemplified on the last occasion they struck. Perhaps the reason why I feel so strongly about this matter at the moment is because I have been visited in Canberra by one of the schools in my electorate- the Williamtown Primary School- and the 34 children and 2 teachers who are making the visit will be stranded in Canberra tomorrow because of the pilots' strike. 
I have been critical previously of the unions and all other organisations that have struck on various occasions. I have said that they have shown a lack of responsibility. At a time when this country is facing many problems, for the complexity of which we of the Opposition have been highly critical of the Government because of certain steps it has taken, this strike action by a supposedly- I use the word 'supposedly' advisedly- responsible body of men is, I think, one of the best illustrations of a lack of responsibility by a group of people. Inconvenience will be caused not only to this group of school children which happens to have come to Canberra from my electorate, but also to many members of the travelling public, including businessmen. 
The other thing I would like to say is this: What example is this strike action to those youngsters who have come down to Canberra to have a look at Australia's capital city? They are not able to get back home tomorrow. Their parents will be worrying about what is going to happen and how they are going to get back home and when they are going to get back home. All of this has happened because of the irresponsibility of this group of people who are in a position of so-called responsibility. I want to say that the administrative officers of Trans-Australia Airlines have done everything they can to help. I am most grateful to them for that. As I said earlier, in the brief amount of time left to me I want to express my disgust at the action which has been taken by the pilots which has caused this inconvenience not only to those young people but also to many others in the community. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Labor and Immigration. I preface my question by saying I am sure that the Minister is aware of the problems and difficulties that are facing primary producers. I ask the Minister: Will he have consultations with his colleague the Minister for Social Security to see whether the Act can be altered to allow a primary producer who loses his income and cannot obtain employment to be eligible for social service benefits? 
I do not really want to comment a great deal on what has just been said by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  but never in all my life, frankly, have I heard such an amount of nonsense as I have just heard come from the honourable gentleman. I would remind him of the experience of a previous  Speaker  in this House who, because of the behaviour of members of the honourable gentleman's Party, had to leave the chair and adjourn the House until the ringing of the bells. A member of the honourable gentleman's Party was named, and refused to obey the direction of the Chair, and when the SerjeantatArms was instructed to ask the honourable member to leave the chamber two other members of the honourable gentleman's Party literally took up their positions on either side of that member. Because of that action the then  Speaker, Sir William  Aston, left the chair and adjourned the House until the ringing of the bells. I should think that an honourable member on the Government side should at this stage also think of some of the things that have happened. I have mentioned to the previous member for Sturt on a number of occasions the number of points of order that he took- I can say that many of them were not really points of order- and the number of times that he objected and stood up for what he considered to be his rights. I will just say that the pious and sanctimonious utterance this evening of the honourable member for Adelaide is completely out of place and I think should be treated with contempt by every honourable member of this Parliament, whether on the Government side or on the Opposition side. 
I am not condoning it. I just dislike pious, sanctimonious tripe, no matter which quarter it comes from. 
-I should say that the honourable member for Prospect might know a lot about it as well. I want to say something this evening in regard to the question that I asked this afternoon of the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Cameron).  I regret that the Minister is not in the House at this moment. I went around to his office to inform him that I was going to raise the matter but unfortunately he is away on official business. I make no criticism of that whatsoever, but it is unfortunate that he is not here. I am a little disappointed about the answer that the Minister gave to me, although in the end he did say that he would discuss the matter with the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden).  I admit that the law as far as social security is concerned stands at exactly the same point at this present moment as it was under the previous Government of my political persuasion, but the point that I endeavoured to make this afternoon is that the primary producer at the moment is facing an extremely difficult situation. Because he has property and therefore has a certain amount of finance he is not eligible in the same way as other people to receive social service benefits, yet in many instances he is suffering a loss of income. He has endeavoured to get unemployment relief. He has applied for employment through the employment offices but employment is not available. Because of the particular circumstances he is not entitled to unemployment relief. 
I concede that the Minister has done quite a deal in introducing schemes to retrain people who have lost employment in one particular sector. The Government has introduced schemes to provide financial assistance to certain industries to enable them to overcome the financial difficulties that they are presently facing. The point of my question and the fact that I was trying to bring to the attention of the Minister was that I felt that perhaps something could be done along the lines of giving primary producers who are facing this economic circumstance some return; it might be considered compensation for loss of income. The reason why I asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, in conjunction with the 
Minister for Social Security, because I know that it also comes into his portfolio, to look into this matter was that I have 3 instances in my area where the primary producer- the man- may have to leave the district to go to Sydney to find employment. Of course, this will place an additional burden upon the wife and children who are left at home. In these circumstances, and for this reason, I should like the 2 Ministers to look at this matter to see whether something cannot be done to assist these people. 
I appreciate that many problems are faced in times of flood or bush fire when a farmer-owner is not entitled to receive relief but a share farmer is entitled to receive relief immediately. It does not matter what assets you may have; if there is no income you cannot eat the dirt on the farm. I was rather disappointed that the Minister for Labor and Immigration went off on a sidetrack and talked about his own experiences and his appreciation of certain problems and difficulties. I would hope that he does have this appreciation. He said that at one stage he had thought of going into another honoured profession but had decided not to do so. I did feel that he went into another profession at a later stage, which was perhaps connected with shearing the sheep which were looked after by the profession that he contemplated entering in the first place. But quite seriously, I should like the Minister to look at this matter to see whether in conjunction with the Minister for Social Security something cannot be done to help these people in the particular circumstances and difficulties which they face at the present time. 
-Is the amendment seconded? 
I move: 
Omit the words 'the next day of sitting' and substitute the words' 1 1 February 1975'. 
I believe that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has given substantiation for support of my motion. When the Prime Minister was making his second reading speech and even at the conclusion of that speech copies of the Bill were not available to honourable members. I do not want to canvass the matters referred to in the second reading speech but, as the Prime Minister said, a substantial number of amendments were moved in the Senate. We know that this is so. I believe that, irrespective of anything else, the House should be in control of its own business. With all respect to the Prime Minister, I do not think that the words he uttered in the second reading speech did anything to justify the haste of the presentation of this legislation to the House. He said that this Bill provided a change of enormous significance. That is all the more reason why we in this House tonight should agree to the amendment that I have moved and adjourn the debate until 11 February 1975. 
It is all very well to say that there has been time to give thought to what is in this Bill. We have actually only heard about many of the amendments that have been moved in the Senate. I suggest that no member of this House has had a real opportunity to consider this Bill. If serious consideration is to be given to this legislation by honourable members the House should agree to my amendment. I ask the House to give it its support. 
-The Dairy Adjustment Bill 1974 now before the House has in many respects the strong support of the Opposition. However, this support in no way diminishes the criticism by the Opposition of the rural policies of the Government, particularly with respect to the dairying industry, over the past 24 months. These policies have eroded the capacity of the industry to survive and, at the same time, downgraded the opportunities of dairy farmers to maintain a satisfactory standard of living within the industry. Since this Government was elected the dairying industry has been clearly in the sights of the Government with respect to repressive and discriminatory policy actions. The position of the dairying industry would be much worse but for recent movements in export prices. 
The Opposition supports the program enunciated in this Bill. It supports a broadening of the marginal dairy farm reconstruction scheme. It supports the provision of interest free loans to suppliers to enable them to change to refrigerated bulk milk delivery. It supports the provision of interest free loans to help dairy factories in this respect. It supports also the relocation assistance to displaced dairy farmers and dairy factory workers. However, before considering this Bill in finer detail, it is most necessary to look at the position of the dairying industry at this moment. 
Since the mid 1960s there has been a marked decline in the number of people engaged in the dairying industry. The number of dairy farm managers, both male and female, has declined by about 30 per cent while the number of employees on dairy farms has declined by more than 60 per cent. Associated with this decline has been a marginal retreat in whole milk production. The level of the decline is particularly disturbing. This is because there are large and significantly important areas of Australia which are dependent on the industry not only for income but also as a force for decentralisation. My electorate of Lyne is one that is particularly affected in this regard. 
Much of the decline that has occurred in the number of people engaged in the dairying industry at the dairy farm level has taken place in the past 2 years. For instance, in New South Wales alone, in the past year 1,200 dairy farmers have left the industry. They have left the industry mainly because of the policies of the Federal Government which have restricted their ability to survive within the industry. 
As is pointed out by my colleague, the honourable member for Mallee, the figure in Victoria is 1,900. Consequently, in the current environment of rising unemployment, the opportunities for these people to pursue meaningful employment within the areas in which they formerly resided have been severely restricted. It was because of this problem that I asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  by way of question the other day for special and particular attention to be given to this problem facing primary producers. I personally hope that the provision of relocation assistance to the industry for displaced dairy farmers and dairy factory workers within the industry will ensure that these affected people will be able to obtain training suitable to their aspirations and employment opportunities in the area in which they live. This, 1 believe, also is a most important and vital factor. These people have ties and interests in these areas. When consideration is being given to this factor; it is necessary that thought be given to allowing these people to remain within the area in which in so many instances they have spent all of their lives. 
We in the Opposition support a positive policy program for the industry. There are many aspects of this Bill which derive from the original policy proposals of the Opposition Parties. For 2 years now we have been advocating assistance to enable a wider level of bulk milk collection from dairy farms and a wider measure of bulk milk handling within dairy factories. The assistance provided by the Government in this respect in this Bill is totally in line with the policy that we enunciated in 1 972 and again in 1 974. 
We also fully support the broadening of the marginal dairy farm reconstruction scheme into a more comprehensive dairy adjustment scheme. Let me quote what we said in our policy in. May 1974. The Country Party stated: 
We fully support the dairy farm buildup scheme. As well, we will examine means of assisting farmers in the lower profit dairying regions and so allow them to improve the economy of their operations. 
We also fully support the extension of relocation assistance to the industry. We recognise this as a vitally important aspect more particularly now because of the Government's discriminatory policies which have brought the spectre of unemployment to the. dairy producing areas of Australia. ' The provision of this assistance under the structural adjustment program of the Government has to be welcomed because of the alarming situation which has developed in terms of the number of people involved in the industry. Many of the problems which have developed in the industry have been compounded by the fact that the industry is facing a critical cost price squeeze. Since 1972 the overall level of prices received by dairy farmers for their products has increased by less than one per cent. In the same time, production costs on dairy farms have risen by 25 per cent to 30 per cent. These figures were disclosed in the Prices Justification Tribunal hearing into the dairying industry, which received evidence that pointed out that the Government's high inflationary policies were widening poverty within the industry. 
Although since that hearing there has been a change by the Tribunal of its attitude towards price increase applications by the dairying industry, it is important to remember that no farm industry can survive in an environment of rising production costs exceeding 25 per cent per year while prices received for its products are increasing by only one per cent per year. This, I think, is something which should cause concern not only to the industry and perhaps to those who are interested in primary production but to all sections of the Australian community. As we have pointed out on so many occasions, prosperity within the dairying industry and the rest of primary industry is of vital interest and importance not only to those industries but also to the whole of the Australian community. The dairying industry is a most basic factor in the economic stability of the land. 
Consideration is being given now to the problems of food in the world. Recently a conference was held in Rome at which consideration was given to facing up to the problem of looking after the underdeveloped countries and those other countries which have food problems. This is, as I said, of even greater importance to Australia at this moment. I have said it before and I will reiterate it. We talk about an energy crisis. Might I also point out that we are facing a food crisis which in importance is as vital as the energy crisis not only to Australia but to the world. 
As my colleague, the honourable member for Calare has said, it is vital to all nations. He has written an extremely good paper on this subject which he presented at a recent annual conference which he attended. I commend his comments to all honourable members. 
This Bill has the widespread support of the State governments and of dairy industry organisations. Information I have received from a wide spectrum of the industry indicates that the people involved are most eagerly awaiting the introduction of this Bill. However, I think there are some points that have been made to me by the industry on which the Government should reply. These include the provision of assistance to dairy farmers who have already accomplished the objectives of the Bill and whether they should be permitted to utilise finance made available in this Bill, to complete expansion programs. I believe that this should be the case, and I ask the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  to give this area of concern sympathetic consideration in any future discussions he may have with representatives of the dairy industry. 
Another point that has been raised with me is that there should be an emphasis on assistance to dairy farmers for the replacement of small vats with larger refrigerated vats. The objective of this would be to save on transport costs and lower capital expenditure involved in transportation to the factories. I am sure that this is a point which we really do not need to emphasise because transport costs, particularly at this time, are one of the greatest contributing factors in the problem facing the primary producer. I would like to point out that many of the farmers who have remained in the industry have survived because they have increased the size of their herds. The trend towards increasing herds, together with the wider use of mechanisation in the industry plus, of course, the demand for the installation of larger vats will increase significantly. In anybody's language, that is economic sense. Therefore, I believe that there is a need, when assistance is being given to farmers who are installing vats, that the decision be taken bearing in mind the optimum productive capacity of the farm, and the capacity of the vat should be tied to this optimum capacity. In many areas, refrigerated vats have already been installed on many farms. However, those vats are now close to being inadequate to meet the needs of the farmer. I also know of instances where refrigerated vats have been installed, but they do not meet the standards set down by the Standards Association of Australia. Standard ASN 46 details the standards for refrigerated vats of the Association. I believe that in the interests of the people who will have to buy larger vats or, alternatively, replace their existing vats in the near future, under the provisions of this Bill, interest free loans should be made available to allow them to make that change. The Opposition will be moving amendments which I hope will have the support of the Government. 
I turn now to assistance for dairy factories. I welcome the provision that interest free loans will be made available for assistance as necessary to factories, stemming from the move towards the installation of refrigerated bulk delivery systems on dairy farms. However, I believe that the Bill needs to go further. Honourable members will be aware that throughout the industry, mainly as a result of increasing farm productivity, mechanisation of delivery and the cost economics which can be achieved from the rationalisation of dairy farm operations, there is a need wherever possible to encourage rationalisation. Much of the total cost structure involved in the dairy industry from the farm to the consumer is tied up at the dairy factory level. A lot of the cost could be overcome by rationalisation of dairy factory operations. Over the past 40 years, Australia has seen a decline in the number of dairy factories. I am sure that we are all aware that in certain areas there are dairy factories which should be amalgamated or phased out of production so as to create more efficient utilisation of factory resources within the industry. This has been happening in many areas as farm management and dairy factory co-operative management get together in an endeavour to overcome some of the problems that are confronting the industry. 
People who criticise what they call the lack of efficiency in primary production should take the time to go round some of the dairying areas and see the steps that are being taken and that have been taken by the primary producers themselves and by their management in an endeavour to make their industry even more efficient than it has been in the past and to cope with the rising costs, over many of which the primary producers have no control. Consequently, because of these factors, we intend to amend the Bill to allow for the making of loans by the States or an authority of the State concerned with this Bill, to the owners of dairy factories where those loans can be used to introduce wider economic rationalisation within the industry at the factory level and in the best interests of the industry. I sincerely hope that the Government will support that concept. Whilst in many respects this legislation has the strong support of the Opposition, we recognise the fact that although this legislation is a contribution towards assisting the dairy industry, many of the problems of the dairy industry have been caused by the policy of the present Government. I hope the Government will accept the amendments and the suggestions made by the. Opposition to improve tins Bill to make it of even greater value and assistance to the dairy industry. 
-On behalf of the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  I move: 
In sub-clause (1), after the definition of 'arrangements', insert the following definition: 'Dairy Factory' means a factory involved in the collection, distribution and processing of milk in any form; 
This is the amendment I foreshadowed in my speech at the second reading stage. It is associated also with a further amendment which is to be moved by my colleague, the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles).  The Bill provides for finance to be made available to dairy factories and in this amendment the definition of a dairy factory is given. As has been explained in the speeches of members of the Opposition, dairy factories play a vital part in the dairy industry. Economic rationalisation is necessary for factories as well as the individual farmer. For these reasons- and I am sure there is no need for me to labour the point- I hope that the Government will accept my amendment. 

 -Mr Chairman - 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report- by leave- adopted. 

 -Mr Speaker - 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
-One of the difficulties in following the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)  in a debate such as this is that more or less everything that can be said about the subject has already been said. This is the third occasion on which I have had the privilege or otherwise of following the honourable gentleman in debates relating to Papua New Guinea. I think that the House and 
Australia owe a debt of gratitude to the honourable gentleman for the contribution which he has made in regard to the Papua New Guinea Bill (No. 2) and the Judges' Pensions Bill which are before the House. A quick look at them might perhaps indicate or give the impression that these are machinery matters, that they should just come before the House, be agreed to and passed by the House. Because we are in the closing stages of this session of Parliament it is not my intention to delay the House for a great deal of time, but I feel that attention must be given to what the honourable member for Kooyong has said. 
Perhaps we might emphasise what has been hidden from the Opposition and from the people of Australia by a Government which has said that it believes in open government. Many problems are associated with the independence of Papua New Guinea. Many problems are associated with the United Nations. I had the privilege of being at the United Nations in 1957. I was a member of the Fourth Committee which gave attention to these matters of trusteeship territories, including South West Africa. I appreciate from the discussions at that time some of the problems which could face Australia and Papua New Guinea in the future. I believe that the thought that I had at that stage is relevant at this moment. What is to be the relationship between Australia and Papua New Guinea in future? What is to be our defence association? I believe that those matters are of utmost importance to us at this stage, particularly with incidents and happenings- this might be going a little outside the Bill- in the Asian area at this time and over the last few months. There appears to be pressure by this Government and an interference with those in charge in Papua New Guinea, which is completely unjustified. 
It is because of these facts that I express on behalf of the Australian Country Party and myself support for the contention and the arguments put forward by the honourable member for Kooyong. I believe we in this Parliament must give more attention than we are giving at the moment to this post-independence period. There are many complexities; there are many difficulties. We have been responsible for Papua New Guinea for a considerable time. There are many complexities within Papua New Guinea itself. I do not believe that we can abdicate our responsibility merely by saying: 'They have their independence; it is their responsibility. They have to do all these things on their own'. I think that in the present circumstances this Government and the people of Australia should show a greater sense of responsibility towards the people of Papua New Guinea and their leaders, than perhaps we did when we had the responsibility for the trusteeship, the care and the progress of the future of the country. While the 2 measures we are debating may merely be machinery matters, I think that they emphasise that not sufficient attention has been given by the Government to many of the problems that will be associated with Papua New Guinea obtaining independence and going into the future as an independent nation. 
-I seek leave to make a short statement on the same subject. 
-It is with a great deal of pleasure that I support the remarks made by the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  in presenting the report of the Twentieth Commonwealth Parliamentary Conference. We have spoken about the reports presented on behalf of other delegations on other occasions and I am sure that there is no necessity for me to go into this report in a great amount of detail. However, I would like to comment officially on the leadership of the Minister. I have said on other occasions and I say again that he made a tremendous contribution and his leadership played no small part in the Australian delegation having such a successful conference. I would also like to pay a compliment to the members of the Minister's staff who assisted us on many occasions in many ways while we were there. The Minister mentioned the assistance we received from the Australian High Commissioner and his wife and staff in Colombo who, along with the Minister's staff, did a fantastic job. All of these things contributed to the success of the conference. The work of  Mr Pettifer  has been referred to. We know of the capabilities of  Mr Pettifer  from the efficient way in which he carries out his duties here in this House. Those capabilities were exemplified at this conference. I would also like to join with the Minister in congratulating the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Sherry)  on his appointment as the Australasian Regional Councillor on the General Council. I have said before that these conferences are important because they discuss the subject matters that concern the whole of the Commonwealth. I also congratulate members of the delegation who gave the Minister their strong support. The contributions that they made at this conference meant that Australia's prestige was high among the other countries that attended the conference. I have much pleasure in supporting the remarks of the Minister. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
I do not want to traverse the ground that has been covered by other honourable members. I confess that I did not anticipate that I would be speaking in the debate at this stage. I want first to comment on the action which I took last year, with the support of the honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Luchetti),  when I moved a motion- he seconded it and it was carried by this House- to postpone this Bill until the Parliament resumed this year. I confess that I am amazed by some of the letters that I have received relating to the action which the honourable member for Macquarie and I took. I thought that any person of reason would appreciate that as about 100 amendments were made to the Bill in the Senate, it would have been completely and absolutely irresponsible for this House to consider the Bill with the thought of passing it in 3 days in the closing stages of the session during which other business such as questions and ministerial statements had to be considered. It was with that thought in mind that the honourable member for Macquarie and I took the action that we did on that occasion. 
I want to comment on the statements made by the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan).  Every person is entitled to his own particular opinion, and I think that honourable members are aware of my background, but I would hate to think that the words spoken by the honourable member for Eden-Monaro are anywhere near the truth. He implied that the church was outmoded, that it was not needed and that nowadays there was no real thought about the principles and the standards of the Christian church. As I said, every man is entitled to his own particular opinion but I must say that if that is the opinion of the honourable member for EdenMonaro the facts completely disprove what he said. I think it would be most unfortunate if there were even a grain of truth in the remarks of the honourable member for Eden-Monaro. 
He spoke about a need for understanding and tolerance. I say to the honourable member that it has been my responsibility to marry people who have been divorced. To that degree within the Christian church there is an aspect of understanding and tolerance and the qualities about which the honourable member for Eden-Monaro spoke. But there is one thing upon which the church must never compromise, and that is a certain standard and a certain ethic which it must show to the world at large that it stands for. If the church ever forgets that I believe that it will be a tragedy for the world and for all civilisation. 
I do not intend to go into the details of the clauses of the Bill. I think that the basic factor here is the philosophy behind the legislation. This was mentioned by my colleague the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan),  who said that there were certain aspects in the world in which we live that related to people who desired divorce. Surely people should give serious consideration to this matter. It is not a course to be accepted as normal practice but something to be followed with reluctance and with great and deep consideration. 
Those of us who oppose this legislation are not unmindful of some of the problems associated with parents living together with a certain amount of distrust and certain differences of opinion and the effect that that has on the emotional life of children of the marriage. But there are other considerations, such as what a family means and what family life means. I believe that these factors should be weighed well before steps are taken to dissolve a marriage. Whilst I and many others appreciate that there is a need for reform and that there are many anomalies in the present legislation that should be corrected, my fear is that this legislation takes the step which makes divorce easier and, in my opinion, it stresses that this is something that can be done and looked upon lightly. As we accept the fact that the law already exists I think we should ask ourselves whether the change that is envisaged improves the law. In that regard I refer people who want to consider this matter to the very fine speech made by the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh).  In legislation such as this there are 2 factors. One is our own personal conviction. Honourable members will be able to have a free vote, not on party lines. The other factor is consideration of the people whom we have the privilege to represent. I can say without any fear of contradiction that the vast majority of the people of my electorate have the same fears and doubts about this legislation as I have. I support the amendment moved by the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  because I believe that it gives this House the opportunity to consider further the legislation that is before it at the moment. 

 Mr WHAN (Eden-Monaro)-Mr  Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Debate interrupted. 

 -Mr Speaker, I crave your indulgence to make a personal explanation. 
-I suggest that the Minister might rephrase the term and not use an expression like that. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
Suspension of Standing Orders 
Motion (by  Dr Patterson)  agreed to: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the Minister for the Northern Territory moving an amendment to clause61 of the Darwin Reconstruction Bill 1975 during consideration in Committee of the Whole of amendments made by the Senate in the Bill. 
-I am reminded of the gentleman who was appearing in a play and who started to go on to the stage 3 times, each time before his cue. I support the amendment which was moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch).  The major reason I do so is that I feel that in presenting this legislation, particularly at this time, the Government is presenting legislation to which it has not given full consideration and which has come in at a time when the Government is confused on many issues. It was for that reason that this afternoon the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition moved that the Standing Orders be suspended in order to delay the presentation of this Bill. 
Whenever the Opposition makes points about legislation and warns of certain dangers the Government charges the Opposition with supporting matters- in this instance the stock exchange- which are not ethical and are against the interests of the bulk of the Australian people. I believe that this is a cover up by the Government to hide the reality of the legislation which it is presenting. Speakers from the Government side in this debate have displayed negative thinking. They have cited certain instances. Perhaps everyone would agree that the instances they have cited were not in the best interests of the investors. But in any business, organisation or group one can take out certain instances that are detrimental and so condemn the whole system. 
Anybody studying this Bill would appreciate that it is a complex Bill. The explanatory memorandum prepared by the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  covers 9 1 pages. The BDI itself covers nearly 235 pages and contains 284 clauses. When one reads the legislation and studies the explanatory memorandum one is forced more and more to the conclusion that this BDI should be withdrawn, redrafted and presented at a later stage in a far more suitable form. In his second reading speech the Attorney-General said: 
The purpose of this Bill is to provide for the securities industry in Australia to operate on a sound basis with an effective system of controls administered nationally by a commission to be called the Corporations and Exchange Commission. More specifically the Bill aims to maintain, facilitate and improve the performance of the capital market in the interests of economic development, efficiency and stability. This is in accordance with the report of the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange. 1 am sure it is also in accord with the wishes of all honourable members. 
Some of the thoughts expressed there by the Attorney-General might be acceptable to honourable members on this side of the House, but certainly the BDI is not acceptable. 
I am wondering why in his second reading speech the Minister faDed to mention the Interstate Corporate Affairs Agreement to which New South Wales, Queensland and Western Australia are parties. The Agreement ensures uniform law and administration covering 85 per cent of all incorporated companies and provides an acceptable alternative to centralised control through the monolithic commission envisaged by this Government. I believe that the appropriate step to have taken would have been to have at least some discussion with the States in regard to the Interstate Corporate Affairs Commission which they have set up. 
A news release was sent out on 14 February relating to meetings of the ministerial council of the Interstate Corporate Affairs Commission. One of the aims of that meeting was to finalise arrangements for Western Australia to become a party to the Interstate Corporate Affairs Agreement and therefore a member of the Commission, which was set up last year. The Commission surely would have some experience and knowledge. This, together with many other things, could have been discussed and considered by the Federal Government. Reference was made to assistance from eminent persons particularly in the United States of America. I think there is a danger in this. I hope to speak about that at a later stage, but there is one interesting factor I shall mention. Whenever the previous Liberal-Country Party Government turned to the United States or received any assistance from the United States it was always accused of being influenced by that country and of adopting its ideas, and was asked why it did not have any ideas of its own. 
I turn now to the comments made by the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange. Its report covered particular and specific securities. That should be noted when we are considering the report. Let me come back again to the Minister's second reading speech. Later on in the speech he said: 
During the recess, my Department has received a number of representations and submissions. These are now being given close consideration. When amendments appear to be desirable I shall move them in due course. Our aim is to get the best possible legislation- legislation which will provide protection for the interests of investors and restore confidence in the capital markets in this country. 
Do those remarks of the Attorney-General not further justify the motion moved this afternoon by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition for the suspension of Standing Orders to delay this legislation? It does not appear to me to be logical. Surely if we are to discuss something in a legal sense is should be discussed logically. If we are to discuss this legislation surely we should at least have all the amendments and all the information that is possible before the House. Quite frankly I feel that there was complete and absolute justification on the part of the Opposition when the Deputy Leader of the Opposition moved a motion for the suspension of Standing Orders this afternoon. 
I think that the stock exchange management itself has set up a committee to investigate some of the problems and difficulties confronting exchange and investment. I trunk that committee could make a valuable contribution. I understand that it is making suggestions to the Attorney-General. I am not quite sure whether some of the amendments that have been presented to us this afternoon have come as a result of those discussions or as a result of information presented by the Stock Exchange management. I would sincerely hope that at least due consideration would be given to the suggestions and to the recommendations made by the stock exchange. Surely if legislation is to be brought into this House and agreed to by this House at least consideration should be given to those people who have a great deal of experience in this sphere. 
Sometimes it is said that companies do not give full and detailed information. I believe there are circumstances when a company is justified in not revealing at a particular time all the information that is at its disposal. If a company did, the danger exists- I think this should be given considerationthat the information could be valuable to its competitors. The company could be placed at a disadvantage. One of the major factors, I believe, in this matter is the power that is given to the Commission. I dunk this reveals the difference between the philosophy of members of the Opposition and the philosophy of members ofthe Government.  "Mr .  O'Keefe- Members of the Government are hot interested. 
  Mr -LUCOCK-  It is a socialistic philosophy. As my friend, the honourable member for Paterson, mentions, there does not seem to be a great deal of interest from honourable members opposite. Clause 279 ofthe Bill states: 
Except as provided by this Act and subject to the jurisdiction of the High Court under paragraph 75 ( v) of the Constitution, a decision of the Commission shall not be challenged, appealed against, reviewed, quashed, or called in question, or be subject to prohibition, mandamus, certiorari or injunction, in any court on any account whatever. 
I think when one reads that clause the danger of this legislation becomes paramount. Complete power is. given to the Commission. There is no check on the Commission. I think there should be the right of appeal. We spoke earlier about the right of appeal in relation to criminal offences. Even the Australian public has the right of appeal against the policies of this Government. In 1974 the Australian people were not wise enough to use that right of appeal in the right direction. We hope that very soon they will be able at least to exercise that right in the right direction once again. 
Under the provisions of this Bill there is no right of appeal against the Commission. I think this is dangerous. It is further evidence of the philosophy of the Government as against the philosophy of the Opposition. I believe that the view of those who are closely related to this industry should be given full consideration. Quite frankly I feel that one detrimental feature of reports relating to the stock exchange has been an inference which, intended or otherwise, has been that the stock exchanges are comprised of rogues and thieves. The stock exchanges have been prepared to accept criticism and, where possible, have taken steps to correct the situation. In my opinion not sufficient credit has been given to the stock exchange when it has been right. I do not think anyone would deny that the stock exchanges have played a very important part in the development and progress of this country. I think in general that the stock exchanges have a fairly high ethical standard. There has been a far higher degree of control than might be surmised if one looked at only one side of the report. 
Earlier I referred to the comment that assistance had been given from people overseas. I said then that I am afraid there is the danger of our society being over-regulated because there has been a degree of over-acting in this situation in which we have found ourselves, one might say, in recent years. No one would deny the need for a fair and workable piece of legislation, the need for which is acknowledged by all. It -is acknowledged by members of the Opposition. If the legislation were fair and reasonable it would' be accepted by all. The members of the Government have said that the only reason the Opposition is opposing this Bill is because we are trying to give further support to what it calls our big business friends. But all that camouflage does not hide the fact that it is not a good piece of legislation. It is a dangerous piece of legislation because of what it leaves out as well as what it puts in. It expresses again the continuing philosophy of this Government, which is a philosophy of control and regulation in every possible aspect. It is for this reason that my Party, together with members of the Liberal Party, are completely and absolutely opposed to this legislation in its present form. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 
By employing their wives at $7500 a year MPs would save tax. MP 's would have to pay much higher tax if they received a straight pay rise of $7500 a year. 
Most MPs today claimed that they would not allow the appointment of an extra staff member to prejudice their claims for more pay. 
Both Opposition and Government MPs are adamant that they are entitled to higher salaries because of missing out last year. 0 
One MP complained today: (Junie Morosi is getting more than a lot of us if you take into account her allowances. ' 
Both Opposition and Government MPs are adamant that they are entitled to higher salaries because of missing out last year. 
Unfortunately that article has been more or less repeated in the Melbourne 'Herald'. The gentleman who wrote the article for the 'Herald' is named John Monks. Evidently he is a bit lazy because he thieved the article; it is practically of the same substance as the 'article which appears in the 'Sun'. The 'Herald' also contains a disgraceful cartoon which does little credit to anyone associated with that newspaper. I say this of the article, and I put it on the line: It is false, misleading, based on innuendo, half-truths and insinuations. It does no credit whatever to the writer or to the newspaper, as it is completely without foundation and I repeat that it is completely false. I repeat also that I have no knowledge that any member intends to adopt the course that has been suggested in the article. I wonder whether many pressmen have their wives engaged in their business? Of course, many doctors adopt this practice, but evidently they never care to popularise it. 
I am one who believes that the privileges of members of Parliament should not be abused, and I have advised the members of my Party accordingly. I have advised them also that this facility is one that should be regarded as of great importance to enable them to employ staff of the highest calibre to carry out their electoral responsibilities. I have no reason to doubt that when this matter was discussed by Opposition members my views on this subject were made known to them at their party meetings. It is therefore disturbing to see such an ill-founded statement made in this newspaper and, unfortunately, followed in some other newspapers in an attempt to degrade and ridicule members of this Parliament on unsubstantiated grounds. 
I therefore take this opportunity to explain the position. I regret that it has been necessary for me to do so, but unfortunately I think that it had to be done in the interests not only of the Parliament but also of every member of this House and of the Senate. 

 -Mr Speaker, I would like to offer my congratulations first of all to you on your appointment to the high office of  Speaker  and, secondly, to  Mr Berinson  who has been appointed  Deputy Speaker  and  Chairman  of Committees. I regret the circumstances that created the situation for the appointment and, 1 am sure that you do also. However, I give you both my warmest congratulations. You may rest assured that the experience I have had the privilege of gaining in this House will be at your disposal at any time you like to call upon it. 
I apologise to the House. When I spoke on the Remuneration and Allowances Bill 1975 I intended to ask for leave to incorporate in Hansard at the conclusion of my speech a list of current salaries. I have spoken to the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  about the matter. I ask for leave of the House to have that list inserted in Hansard at the conclusion of my speech. 
I want to make a comment in regard to this Bill. I think it is important It makes provision for people, as the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  said, who have been left aside because of certain action that was taken by some members of this Parliament last year. Unfortunately there appear to be certain factors and a certain lack of consideration by people even at this stage. As well as the subject matter that is being discussed in relation to this Bill I want to refer to something that I regard as a serious deficiency in the report of the Remuneration Tribunal in relation to the salaries of the First Division officers of the parliamentary departments. The reason I do this is that having had a fair amount of association with the Clerks of the House and also with the Clerks of the Senate, I appreciate very much the work they do and the assistance they give to the members of this House. If one studies the report of the Remuneration Tribunal, it states: 
As has been customary in past salary reviews, we have considered this group as being essentially different from the 
Permanent Heads of Departments of State and consequently we have given them separate consideration. We determine their salaries as indicated in the Determination at page XIV of this Review. 
The honourable member for Wentworth and the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  have mentioned the importance of judges, the importance of their position and the fact that if we are to attract to these positions men of the calibre that is needed, we must give attention to the remuneration they receive. This is not merely for the sake of the financial factor. I am sure that no one who enters into these spheres of service gives undue consideration to the remuneration which he receives. Yet there must always, in my opinion, be thought given to the fact that at least these people should receive just remuneration for the work they do. 
I said that I felt I should say something about this particular point as well as relating my remarks to the salaries of the judges because of my very close association with the Clerks of the House- not only the two distinguished gentlemen who are here now but others who have served in that capacity during the time it has been my privilege to be a member of this House. I am sure that all honourable members are well aware from their own experience of the constant and immediate decisions which must be taken by the  Clerk  of our own chamber in giving advice on complex procedural questions. The  Clerk  of the Senate is similarly placed. In addition, of course, these 2 officers perform the same administrative functions and bear the same responsibilities to the Presiding Officers as permanent heads of executive departments controlled by a Minister of the Crown. Yet- I think this is something to which we should give particular attention at this time- they are currently paid nearly $9,000 less than the permanent head of even the smallest executive department. Are we to assume that the responsibilities of the 2 Clerks are less onerous by that degree than, for example, the head of the Department of Tourism and Recreation? This appears to be ludicrous to me. Not only are the Clerks at a disadvantage in relation to other permanent heads, incredibly, their salaries fall well behind those enjoyed by many officers of the Second Division of the Public Service. 
I think to put this statement in perspective I might briefly outline the position of the Clerks in the 74 years since the Commonwealth Parliament came into being. In the first 20 years after Federation the Clerks of the Parliament were amongst the highest paid of the permanent heads and suffered only a slight decline in their salary relativity in the ensuing 20 years. Since 1941, however, their position has progressively been eroded to the point that currently their salary is more than $ 1 ,000 less than that of a level 4 officer of the Second Division. They earn more than $3,000 less than a level 5 officer and nearly $5,000 less than an officer who is classified as a level 6 Second Division officer. 
As I said, I am in full agreement with what has been said by the Special Minister of State and the honourable member for Wentworth in relation to judges. I think also at this specific time the House should give consideration to the factors that I am mentioning. The Remuneration Tribunal itself acknowledges that the Clerks and other parliamentary permanent heads are essentially different from the permanent heads of the departments of State. Its determination, however, seems to suggest that 'different' implies inferior and this is not the case. It is not the case in the United Kingdom and I know that honourable members are aware of an example in this regard and I do not think that it should be different here. In other words, I feel that at this specific time this is something to which the House might give particular attention. 
I note from the Tribunal's current review that it is concerned at the anomalies and inequities which exist in certain areas. I feel that it is incumbent upon me at this particular time to use the forum of this House to draw attention to a determination which may be unjust. I suggest that the House examine the determination relating to the parliamentary First Division officers in the light of its clear responsibility to assert once more the rights, the independence and something that we have been talking about a great deal- the dignity of the Parliament. While supporting this piece of legislation, I would ask the Special Minister of State, the Tribunal and the House to consider the matters that I have mentioned.  
Current Salaries 
Clerks of the Parliament- $22,0 12 plus nil allowance. 
First Division Officers-$29,250 plus $ 1 ,750 allowance. 
Second Division Officers-Level 6, $26,880; Level 5, $25,059; Level 4, $23,238; Level 3, $21,417; Level 2, $19,597; Level 1, $17,776. 
Increases Proposed by Remuneration Tribunal 
Clerks ofthe Parliament-$27,500 plus $ 1 ,000 allowance. 
First Division Officers- First level (21 departmental heads) *$35,000 plus "$2,000 allowance. Second level (8 departmental heads) $32,500 plus $ 1 ,750 allowance. 
* Loading of S1,000 to the Secretaries to the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet and the Department of the Treasury. 
** Loading of $230 to the Secretaries to the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet and the Department ofthe Treasury. 
The salaries of Second Division officers are as at 27 June 1974; a further claim has been lodged with the Public Service Arbitrator. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
How many people from the rural sector applied for training under the NEAT System for the first time during the months of October, November and December 1974. 
How many people were accepted for training during this period. 
Do the statistics that are being kept under the System enable identification of the previous occupation of the applicants such as (a) farmers, (b) dependants of farmers, (c) farm workers, (d) dependants of farm workers and (e) other members of the rural workforce, including those working in industries closely associated with the rural section, e.g., agents for tractors and agricultural machinery, garages, etc if so, what are the details. 
-In the remarks that the honourable member for Hunter is making there may be certain points that illustrate the advantage of the legislation before the Parliament but I think he is spending a little too much time on the details which are not relevant to the legislation. I suggest that he should not give quite so much detail in his speech on the Family Law Bill. 
Awful scandals such as I have mentioned should be brought up. I have no regrets about bringing it up. Not enough of the time of the Parliament is used to expose these people, irrespective of their political colour, who have ruined the lives of people and framed divorce evidence under the present antiquated law because it was necessary to prove guilt. Under the proposed legislation one will no longer have to frame evidence against a spouse. I cannot support my colleague the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart).  I have great respect for him. He is a dedicated member of his faith. He is to be admired because, on matters like this, he does not depart from the teachings of his faith. I admire him because he is not a flincher. We always know where he stands on such issues. Other members of Parliament who would like to support this legislation are afraid to do so because they represent borderline electorates and sectarian votes may be organised to get rid of them. We know that that happens under our political system. 
I move: 
That this Bill be referred to a select committee. 

 Mr Speaker, I know; this is evident from the noise on my left at the moment, and perhaps it is appropriate that it is on my left- that one of the criticisms of this motion will be that this is a delaying tactic, that the Bill has been debated, that a great deal of time has been spent at the second reading stage, that various other considerations have been given to the Bill, and that therefore a motion such as this should not be moved. It will be recalled that I was the person who moved for the postponement of the debate from last year until the sittings of the House this year. Irrespective of anything that may be said in criticism of this motion, I feel that a matter of such importance should be referred ro a select committee. I believe that such action would not delay the Bill any more than it would be delayed in the normal course in going through the Committee stage and having amendments considered. 
I do not want to go over again the ground that was covered during the second reading debate, nor the ground that was covered by the Senate Select Committee and during the debate in the Senate, but one thing that has become evident to everybody in all the debates relating to this matter is that there is, first of all, a degree of confusion in the minds of those who have been debating the Bill relating to some of the factors of the legislation. I said in my speech in the second reading debate that I appreciated the fact that there should be reform in the divorce situation and that legislation bringing about reform should be given consideration. But let us have a look at this. This Bill has now passed the second reading stage. It will go into Committee, during which time many and varied amendments will be moved. If my memory serves me correctly, there are something like 140 amendments mooted at this stage. I am sure that there will be more than that. Once the House of Representatives has discussed the Bill in the Committee stage and all the amendments have been considered and either accepted or rejected, then I anticipate that the Bill will go through to the Senate. It will then be given further consideration in the Senate, where I would anticipate that there would be further amendments moved. One might almost have an appreciation of the fact that this legislation could go backwards and forwards between the Senate and the House of Representatives for some considerable period of time. Let us also face the fact that, while this is a non-party measure, there has been a certain amount of emotional content in the debate. 1 think that this is understandable. 
It has been said that there has been much pressure brought to bear upon members from outside sources. I would think that in the majority of cases members in this House are capable and competent enough to give consideration to legislation and decide honestly and sincerely what they feel is in the best interests of the people of Australia. They would take into consideration, of course, certain representations and comments that have been made from outside. Surely the only thing that would decide the attitude of a member in relation to any legislation would not be representation that is brought to bear upon him from outside. If that were the situation of a member in this House, I would say that the member was not fulfilling his responsibilities as a member of the Australian Parliament. 
I refute the argument that this motion is merely a delaying tactic and will delay the Bill. I do not believe it will delay the Bill any further than the considerations that are before us at the moment in relation to the passage of the Bill. I believe that in the calm of a select committee, where members will sit down literally away from the political atmosphere, more reason and more logic could be presented. I would hope that possibly a more rational piece of legislation would be presented than the legislation which we are considering at this particular stage. It is for that reason that I have moved that this Bill be referred to a select committee. 
-! wish to raise a matter this evening during the adjournment debate that has already been raised on a number of occasions by members of my Party. I refer to the situation of the primary producer at the moment, particularly the beef producer. My raising the matter in this House at this particular stage follows the situation where I have been endeavouring to ask a question of the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson)  over a period in the vicinity of 5 or 6 weeks. Unfortunately, owing to circumstances- I do not blame you,  Mr Speaker,  in any way- it has been impossible for me to ask that question. But the Minister for Northern Development, in reply to a question asked by the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe)  said on one particular occasion that he felt that the members of the Australian Country Party should encourage people to make representations to the Government, to put forward their ideas and to try to do something positive in regard to this very serious situation. 
I say quite frankly that the Minister for Northern Development did not appear to be greatly worried about the situation because he talked about the $20m that had been made available by the Government at an interest rate in the vicinity of 1  VA  per cent. Of course, if people can pay an interest rate of 1 1  Vi  per cent then, quite frankly they would not need to go to this particular fund for borrowings because they could borrow the money through the normal banking channels. The situation at the moment, of course, is that the beef producer is facing tremendous problems. One of the problems that he is facing is his own financial position. One of the suggestions of the Government is that he will be given a portion of this $20m and will then be given carry-on finance by his own private bank. But what is the good of giving these people carry-on finance which would add a further burden to them in the sense that they have to face an added interest burden bill on that money they are using for carry-on finance? They would have a double interest bill to face at a time when to say that the bottom has dropped out of their market is perhaps being a little moderate or conservative. 
Yet this Government quite frankly does not appear to be facing up to the responsibility of a government with respect to an industry which is one of the most important and vital industries in Australia. The reason I have been trying to ask the Minister for Northern Development a question is that when he mentioned members of the Country Party asking country people to put their proposals before Ministers of this Government, I was going to ask him to see whether he could impress upon the Minister for Agriculture,.  Senator Wriedt,  the need to see a deputation, the request for which I have had before the Minister since before Christmas. I would trunk that that would be at least a reasonable enough time for a Minister to be able to see that deputation. 
I am afraid I cannot say where he is, nor can I say where the Minister for Agriculture is. But members of the Country Party and of the Liberal Party have stressed the importance of rural production to the economic situation of Australia. I would think, therefore that at this particular stage in our economic history the Government would be giving more attention than they are to this problem which is facing our primary producer. 
The deputation for which I am endeavouring to arrange an interview with the Minister for Agriculture is the Gloucester Survival Committee. The word 'survival' is a correct word to use in relation to that Committee and the people that they represent because these people in this area are facing literally the problem of survival. They came down here not so very long agotowards the end of the last parliamentary session. They came down with their horses and rode them in front of Parliament House in an endeavour to bring home to this Government the problems that were confronting them. What happened? Neither the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  nor the Minister for Agriculture, nor any other Minister of the Government bothered to go out and say hullo or to see any of these people and talk over their problems with them. Members of my own Party came out. The honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  came out and made headlines when he road a horse on the lawns outside Parliament House, as did my friend the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh).  But the people did this not as a stunt but in an endeavour to bring home to the Government and some of the people in the urban and metropolitan areas the problems that were confronting them. 
I have forwarded telegrams and letters to the Prime Minister, the Minister for Agriculture, the Minister for Northern Development and other Ministers in an endeavour to bring home to them the seriousness of the problems that are confronting these people. I have received np reply to many of the letters and telegrams I have sent. I will acknowledge that today I received a letter from the Prime Minister, or from the Prime Minister's private secretary- I do not criticise that in any way. The letter read as follows: 
I acknowledge receipt of your telegram of 28 March 1 975 to the Prime Minister on behalf of certain representatives of beef cattle producers, abattoirs and primary producers, conveying a resolution relating to maintenance payments to members of the beef industry. A reply will be sent to you as soon as possible. 
I hope that reply is not too long delayed and that a decision favourable to supporting these people is not too long delayed. 
The honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  interjected last night when my colleagues, the honourable member for Wimmera and the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  were making their speeches. Where are the members of the Labor Party and the Government at the present stage who represent primary producers? Why are not they bringing home to the Government the problems that these people are facing? They can talk as much as they like. They can do something whereas we can only stand up here and try by our voices and by words to get this Government off its tail to try to do something for one of the most important industries in Australia. Yet they have members in the Labor Party who represent country areas. What about the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Kerin)?  I know he has a greater number of metropolitan people who have been put into his electorate at the present stage but he does represent a very large primary producing area. What is he doing? He went over to Timor. Well and good. That is a very important thing as well. But he should also present to the Government the problems that are facing our primary producers. 
I say to every member of the Government: Go and look at the people in my electorate. Look at the people in some of the rural areas and see . what they are endeavouring to do. In any of the electorates that are represented by my colleagues in the Country Party and the Liberal Party in rural areas there are people who are striving to do something- to hold firm. Many of the properties and many of the areas they have been working on literally from one generation to another. The irony of it is that there is a World Food Conference statement ready for tabling in the Senate by  Senator the  Honourable K. S. Wriedt, Minister for Agriculture. He went over to attend a world conference on food problems, and blabbers an awful lot about what is needed to be done to assist the people in other countries as far as food is concerned. Yet in this country which has a capacity to produce food in unlimited quantities, this Government is doing everything possible to wreck primary industry. 
The lack of interest this Government has shown and the policy it has followed in respect of primary industry is a shame and an indictment upon the Government and has been detrimental to the primary industry of this country. Together with other members of the Opposition representing rural areas, as well as other members of the Opposition who realise the importance of rural industry to the economy of this country, 1 say to the Government: Look at this situation seriously and see what you can do to help people who are, in more ways than one, the wealth and the strength of this country. 
We have been talking a great deal lately about Vietnam. There is one thing I wish to say on that: I wish the Prime Minister would listen to those things that are said by people who are not following a left wing line with as much attention as he pays to those who are left wingers. He should listen to  Mr Parish  who came back from Vietnam and said there would be thousands of people killed in South Vietnam because it was an offence against the North Vietnamese and Viet Cong to try to get away from them- to escape from their control. This man had the experience of knowing the people, knowing the area and knowing the circumstances. Yet the Prime Minister came out with a statement that nothing like this would happen- that there would be no slaughter of people. I only wish he would go over and have a look at the situation. Might I say that he knows as little about the problem of Vietnam as he knows about beef production and primary industry in Australia? 
-Before commenting on any matter related to the Trade Practices Bill, I would just like to make the comment that the Australian Government should have a look at its own trade practices. It might have a look at a situation which has arisen in Canberra and which involves, I understand, the purchase of monthly bus tickets. In the present situation, of course, there are no buses upon which people who hold such tickets can ride, and I think it would be a good idea if the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant)  and perhaps the honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry)  and the honourable member for Canberra and AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Enderby)  had some discussions to see what can be done in the way either of refunding to the people concerned some of the money that they have paid in the purchase of their tickets or of making the tickets valid for travel in the Australian Capital Territory next month. I do not think it is a very good trade practice for this Government to allow people to buy tickets to travel on buses which are not running and therefore upon which they cannot travel. So I suggest that the Minister might have a look at that matter with his colleagues to see what assistance can be given to the people of Canberra in the present situation. 
I do not want to go into detail in regard to the Bill. The detailed matters have been covered by my colleagues, the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  and the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock).  As has been said already, this amending Bill is designed mainly to prohibit the sending of unsolicited credit cards to people. In one sense it appears from a perusal of the legislation that this Bill represents only the first of many amendments that are to be made to the trade practices legislation. It is perhaps unfortunate that legislation which was enacted, so recently after much long debate and many amendments has to be amended further. It is continuing proof and a further illustration of the Government's inability to present legislation to this House in a form in which it can proceed immediately to become law. Two or three pieces of legislation that have been presented to this House recently have had to be amended in the same way. Not the least of those, of course, was the Corporations and Securities Industry Bill which was amended extensively. That legislation still has to be amended further. So the legislation which was presented and which passed through to the Senate was a sort of a hotch-potch. It appears that the same sort of procedure will have to be followed in relation to this legislation. 
One other point that I want to make is that this legislation is indicative of the attitude of the present Government towards private enterprise. It places upon private enterprise all the restrictions it can, and with the maximum speed. I admit that there is a need for some control over private enterprise and private business firms, but I think we should have an appreciation of the contribution that private enterprise has made to the development of this country. In the comment and discussion on the spate of legislation that is being presented by the Government, that factor appears to me to have been overlooked. In the course of his speech the honourable member for Parramatta made a comment about the Broken 
Hill Pty Co. Ltd. I sometimes wonder just what progress and development we would have achieved in Australia without organisations such as BHP. As I said, I think we need to have a look at this factor because our country has progressed and developed because of the contribution that has been made by private enterprise. 
I want to emphasise that in my opinion the Trade Practices Commission should have discretionary power, and I believe that such power should be provided for in the legislation. To illustrate my point I would like to read to the House a letter written by my colleague, the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Hewson),  to  Mr St  John who is the man in charge of restrictive trade and consumer protection in the Business Affairs Division of the Attorney-General's Department. The letter illustrates the need for some discretionary power to be given to the Commission. My colleague wrote: 
I write in support of the application by the Gippsland Certified Seed Potato Growers' Association who have been in existence for some 20 years and who now seek clarification of their position in relation to the Trade Practices Act. 
I have ascertained that they are not listed amongst the exempted industries under the 2nd Schedule of the old regulations, therefore it is necessary in view of their normal price agreement to seek exemption or authorisation. 
To support their claim to be exempted or authorised, I submit that their normal practice is beneficial to them as seed producers, to the commercial grower, and to the consumer and can only be so under their present arrangement of a price agreement. 
The history of this Association's activities is a very commendable one and one which I trust you will see fit to uphold as one which guarantees- 
a ) a plentiful supply of guaranteed quality certified seed to the commercial grower; 
a product grown under the Victorian Government supervision and standards; and 
seed which produces quantity and quality to the consumer. 
It is essential that this procedure of potato supplies to the public is maintained, because it safeguards all three from exploitation by inferior quality or fluctuating prices. 
In conjunction with the Victorian Agriculture Department, who initially propagate new varieties suitable to various soil and climatic conditions, the Gippsland Certified Seed Potato Growers' Association members purchase their new seed from what is known as the foundation growers who multiply the tested seed for the seed growers' purposes. This is done under strict supervision of Government inspectors to maintain standard certified seed. 
It would be most unfair to place this most important section of the industry on the same basis as the commercial grower who, because of the quantity he grows or because of seasonal conditions, creates a fluctuating market price. 
The price agreement arrangement has been acclaimed by the industry as one of the greatest safeguards guaranteeing at all times sufficient seed for commercial growers. It is a price agreed upon direct to clients with no third party involved and at no time reflects price fixing to the consumer. 
I believe it is in the public interest that the Gippsland Certified Seed Potato Growers' Association be allowed to continue their commendable action to preserve standard and quality for consumption. I therefore very resolutely defend their right to do so and respectfully request that your favourable consideration results in the Association being granted, if not exemption, authorisation. 
It was signed 'Arthur Hewson, member for McMillan'. I think the letter illustrates 2 things: Firstly, it illustrates the need for flexibility in the regulations of the Trade Practices Commission. Secondly, it emphasises the need for discretionary power to be given to the Commission. I understand that at the moment the matter is still being considered. I ask the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  to take this matter up with the Commission, to see what can be done and to see whether a favourable reply can be given. As has been indicated by other honourable members on this side of the House, we support the legislation but ask that these amendments and other factors be given consideration. 
-I think that the honourable member for Angas will recall that that phrase has been used in this House on previous occasions. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! Might I suggest to the Minister for Northern Development that he should stick more closely to the subject matter of a motion moved by the honourable member for Kennedy. 
-Is the motion seconded? 
-I think the honourable member for Mitchell is digressing a little and is going outside the subject matter of the Bill. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the 4 measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 

 -Mr Speaker, I rise on a point of order. I again crave your indulgence. I moved a motion and after I moved that motion both the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  and the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  were prepared to second the motion. The Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  rose and moved that the honourable member be no longer heard. He is entitled to do that, but I ask whether that meant immediately that the motion which I moved was not to be put to the House. I did not raise this point when the Leader of the House rose to speak about the sittings of the House as, being a most orderly and wellbehaved member, I did not like to interrupt the Leader of the House when he was speaking. But I do take that point of order now and ask whether the motion I moved is still entitled to be put to the House. 
I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the statement by the Minister for Defence being brought on immediately for debate. 
The reason I desire to move that motion - 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  agreed to: 
That the honourable member for Lyne be not further heard. 
-I ask the Prime Minister: As the names of other members of Parliament, including the  President  of the Senate, have been mentioned in regard to possible breaches of the Constitution, will the Government assure me that the same prompt action will be taken in these cases as was demonstrated in the case of  Senator Webster? 
I want to comment this evening on some of the events that have been happening in the Parliament in the last few days. I refer to the action of Cabinet and Caucus and to the decision relating to the wool price. I think that this illustrates the point that we have made from this side of the House practically ever since the Australian Labor Party came into office. That is the absolute inability of the Labor Party to govern this country. Let us look at what has happened over the last few days. First it was proposed by the Opposition that there should be a debate on the wool price. That debate was blocked by the Government. Then there was a degree of confusion on this issue. I believe that this indicated the inability of the Cabinet to assess the situation. What would happen if a man who was running a business made a public announcement that in three or four months' time the price of the goods that he was selling would be lowered? Would this not make an absolute farce of the business he was trying to run? 
-The honourable member for Braddon interjects and tries to infer that this was not actually a decision and that there was no finality. But what happened, of course, was that there was released to the Press and to the public the comment and the decision of the Cabinet in this regard. Consequently there was confusion both in business and in primary industry. The action of this Government in the last few days is evidence of its complete inability to run this country. 
Government supporters- Oh! 
-I am delighted to hear honourable gentleman opposite laugh at that statement. I think they will find out at the next election that a majority of people will agree with the statement I have just made.  Mr Speaker,  I ask you to think about the statement that was made by the honourable member for EdenMonaro  (Mr Whan)  about the floor price of wool. I think this was the first time since he has been in this place that he has accomplished anything that could be regarded as an achievement. 
-If I were the Minister for the Capital Territory I would be quiet. He has made a bigger bungle of anything that he has ever administered than any other member of this House. On television tonight the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  said that a Cabinet decision was something that could be overruled by the Caucus. We know that is the case because it happened three times last year with respect to the Government's economic policy. Caucus overruled Cabinet decisions in regard to 3 Budgets. The honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage),  who is the  chairman  of a Caucus committee, made a statement that was completely opposed to the fiscal policy of the Government and this again caused confusion about fiscal policy. 
I agree. Why have a Ministry or a Cabinet? Why not have a meeting of Caucus whenever a decision has to be made? I think that the people of Australia and the Press should give consideration to past actions of the Government. Does this mean that the Budget, even if decided on by Cabinet and presented to this House, will not necessarily be a presentation of the fiscal policy of this Government? The actions of the Government are creating further confusion for business. As I have said, this is one matter at which we should look. The export of wheat to Chile seriously affected the economy of this country. 
As my colleague the honourable member for Mallee says, the value of wheat exported was $14m. But the decision not to export the wheat was made outside of the Government and the Cabinet. The  Minister For  Science  (Mr Morrison)  made a statement recently in Sydney about advertising. I think it was a very poor speech because he covered many matters in broad generalities. In my opinion his speech was an insult to the advertising agencies of this country. A great deal has been said on many occasions by supporters of the Government about what was done by the Opposition when it was in Government. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  made the following statements in a speech which he made prior to the 1972 elections. He asked: 
Do you believe that Australia can afford another 3 years like the last 20 months? Are you prepared to maintain at the head of your affairs a coalition which have lurched into crisis after crisis, embarrassment piled on embarrassment, week after week? Will you accept another three years of waiting  for next week's crisis, next week's blunder? Will you again entrust the nation's economy to the men who deliberately but needlessly created Australia's worst unemployment for 10 years, or to the same men who have presided over the worst inflation for 20 years? 
Those words are an extract from a speech of the present Prime Minister prior to the 1972 elections. How much embarrassment has there been from this Government since it came into power? There has been embarrassment almost every day and every week of every year because of the mistakes, bungles and blunders it has made. I repeat the last statement made by the Prime Minister. He said: 
Will you again entrust the nation's economy to the men who deliberately but needlessly created Australia 's worst unemployment for 10 years - 
What is the unemployment situation in Australia now after less than 3 years of this Government? or to the same men who have presided over the worst inflation for 20 years? 
What is the inflation situation in Australia now? The credibility of some of the Ministers and supporters of the previous Liberal-Country Party Government has been queried. I suggest that the Press of Australia has a tremendous responsibility in this field. I concede that without the Press a great deal could pass without notice. As honourable members in this Parliament know, I do not always agree with the Press. But there is one thing that we must have in this country- I have said this previously and I say it again- and that is a free Press. But I say also that we must have a Press that has a sense of responsibility. 
I ask the Press that queried the credibility of previous Prime Ministers and Ministers in the Liberal-Country Party coalition: What is the situation today in Australia? We have an economic policy that is absolutely in rags. I would hate to guess what our international policy will be tomorrow because one never knows. However one can be fairly confident that that policy will be to the left side of politics. What about the credibility of the present Prime Minister? I acknowledge that the Prime Minister has a tremendous capacity, a tremendous ability and he works. If we all accept and acknowledge that position we will be somewhere along the road to being able to defeat him, but I fear that sometimes we have tried to attack the Prime Minister without giving consideration to his undoubted ability. If we take these factors into account, point out the Government's mistakes, the question of the credibility of the Government and ask the people to examine the state of the economy and the Government's foreign affairs policy, there is no doubt that the Labor Party will be removed from office at the next election, whenever that is, and the Opposition will be returned to government with a greatly increased majority. 
-My question is directed to the Treasurer. I am sure he is aware of a substantial body of economic thought- I might add, with which I agree- that payroll tax by its very nature adds to the inflationary spiral all the way along the line. I ask the Treasurer: Will he have discussions with the Prime Minister with a view to working out financial arrangements which can be implemented at the forthcoming Premiers Conference for the States in order that this tax may be abolished, thus contributing to the attack on inflation? 

 -Mr Speaker, I take the opportunity of joining with the Prime Minister, the Leader of the Opposition and the Leader of the National Country Party of Australia in offering the warmest congratulations to the honourable member for Scullin on his appointment. I must confess that when one of the Government supporters walked across the aisle just a few moments after the vote had been taken my heart rose and I thought: 'Ah, it has happened at last'. But it was not to be. I do congratulate  Dr Jenkins.  I can assure him of my support. It is not an easy task to hold this office. I think sometimes that the  Deputy Speaker  has a harder task even than the  Speaker  himself.  Dr Jenkins  can be assured of my fullest support and assistance on any occasion on which he feels it may be an advantage to have advice. 
-I suggest that the Minister be allowed to make his speech without interruption. 
I think the last speaker on the Opposition side was the man who honestly gave the intention of the Opposition when he said that meddling fingers being put into industry is the first step to nationalising and on that basis the Opposition opposes the Bill. I think that was the most honest comment that any member of the Opposition made. It is not the first step to nationalising; the first step to nationalising was taken with the establishment of the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories. That was a good step; it was never reversed in 23 years by our opponents. 
asked the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) Is a decentralised industry, being the largest employer of labour of any industry in the Electoral Division of Lyne, referred to in the Industries Assistance Commission Report of Tyre Cord and Tyre Cord Fabrics, dated 25 June 1974, and does the report state that the adoption of the report would probably result in the retrenchment of 270 persons from that industry. 
Does the production of the 270 persons provide work for a further 400 persons, approximately, who convert the product to tyre cord fabric. 
Has the same employer already had to reduce the number of people employed by approximately 120 as a result of imports adversly affecting the sales of another of its products. 
Would the implementation of an earlier report by the Commission on woven man-made fibre fabrics, dated 17 January 1974, have further adverse effects on employment on the same site. 
Can he say whether, in the opinion of those responsible for the industry, the implementation of either of the two reports referred to would jeopardise the employment of over 1000 persons and could create a situation necessitating the closure of that industry. 
If the position is as stated, what action is proposed by the Government to prevent this reduction of employment opportunities. 
-The Opposition has accused the Government on many occasions of duplicity and of not presenting all the facts to the people of Australia. We have just heard comments from a Government supporter in which he accused the Opposition of being Jeremiahs, in which he accused the Press of being Jeremiahs, and literally his implication was that if everybody on the Opposition side stopped saying something there would be no dangers and no difficulties. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
Have Hancock's of Wauchope dismissed a further 24 employees; if so, does this mean a reduction of 45 in the work force in the last 6 months. 
Did the firm give as reason for the dismissals the excess of imports from Taiwan, the Philippines, Malaysia and Singapore, following the Government s change of tariff policy. 
Has the parent company at Ipswich also had to dismiss 45 of its staff. 
Will the Minister discuss the matter with his colleagues, the Minister for Police and Customs, the Minister for Social Security and the Treasurer, to see what steps can be taken to assist to overcome problems created by present Government policy. 
-The honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  commenced his remarks by saying that he agreed with the speech that had been made by the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Macphee).  I would imagine that there is no necessity for me to say that I disagree perhaps not with everything but as least a fair percentage of what the honourable member for Burke had to say. 
Tonight we are talking about the Parliament. I regret that when the Minister for Environment  (Mr Berinson)  was speaking earlier this evening, a quorum was called. I certainly think that that action taken by us on this side of the chamber was a very bad step. I wish to apologise personally to the Minister for that action. The honourable member for Burke talked about elections. I have been a member of this Parliament now for close on 24 years. I have faced 10 elections and, on top of that - 
As the honourable member for Darling Downs said, I won them all. That is true up to a point. I would not be here if I had not. That has been rather fortunate. One of the points that I wish to make in this debate is that I believe there is a danger that the importance of elections is lessened as we continue to see separate elections held for the House of Representatives, the Senate and State legislatures. Having said that, I believe that for the safety and security of this country there are times when an election should be held. This must be done, as I say, for the sake of the safety and security of this country even when it means that an election is held at a time when the party elected to power has had a shorter period in office than the term for which it was elected. 
With due respect, I believe- and I have said this before- that the double dissolution which was engendered by the Opposition parties recently was one for which there was complete and absolute justification. I said at that time, and I repeat it, that the Governor-General should have dismissed both the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the then Attorney-General, former  Senator Murphy,  from their positions because they had so contravened the Constitution that their actions set at nought the essence of democracy about which in this debate Government members have been speaking. Having made that point, I do not wish to make any comment on what has happened recently with respect to membership of the other place. The matter was one for the State Parliament concerned. It is a matter for that Parliament's responsibility and for its conscience. 
The debate on the appropriations for the Parliament is an important one. It is one to which, I believe, we should all give very serious consideration. May I say at the outset that we are indebted to the members of the staff of this House. I refer not only to those in the Executive staff but also to the attendants and to all those others who make this Parliament work. There are perhaps some occasions- probably a number of occasions- when we take for granted the work and the contribution that those people make to the parliamentary system. 
I believe that Parliament is under challenge. In the period I have been a member- the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  who is at the table, will have seen this in the lengthy period that he has been a member- a great deal of change has occurred in our parliamentary setup. Today a member has far more correspondence and far more constituency work to do. The honourable member for Ryan  (Mr Drury)  said that the legislative program had caused increased work for the Parliament and that members had to spend more time in the Parliament. In some electorates- particularly in Western Australia, parts of Queensland and some country areas in the other States- where there is difficulty with lines of communication and travel, it is not easy for an honourable member to render service to his electorate and to give the full attention to the Parliament that it really deserves. I have previously complimented the Minister for Services and Property for the tremendous contribution he has made in assisting members of this Parliament in the work they do in their electorates. I give him credit for that again. 
Last weekend I spent 4 days in the electorate of Maranoa, which borders the electorate of my colleague the honourable member for Darling Downs. From practically the moment we left Canberra by aircraft at 7 o'clock on the Friday morning until we arrived back in Canberra at about 10 o'clock on the Monday evening the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  and I were on the move pretty well all the time. That is an indication of the amount of time an honourable member spends on travel in giving service to his electorate. Sometimes that is not appreciated even by people in the electorate.. It is not appreciated by members of the media or by people who are highly critical of the Parliament. Honourable members from both sides of the Parliament must give very serious consideration to an alteration in procedures. Whilst the Parliament must have the ultimate authority and responsibility, thought should be given to the establishment of more committees. 
The honourable member for Wakefield said: 'Hear, hear'. He has had a tremendous amount of experience both as the very distinguished  Chairman  and as a member of the Joint Committee on Public Works. Those of us who have had the experience of being members of committees know that there is a tremendous amount of common ground there on which members from all parties can work. To that degree a very valuable contribution is made to the political life of this nation. Members get together around a committee table and the discussion is a considered one. By that I do not imply that debates or comments in this chamber are not considered. There is perhaps a calmer atmosphere in the committee room than there is in this chamber. I believe that the discussion that takes place and the decisions made there are of benefit to this country. So I feel that committees should be set up to study certain legislation in detail. A committee has been set up to look into procedures and we have set up a committee to look into the committee system. Their work will be of tremendous value. 
A country the size of Australia needs a federal parliament such as the Parliament we have in Canberra today. I believe that it also needs the State parliaments. What worries me a little today is the tendency towards centralised control. I do not think that this is a good thing for the future progress and development of Australia. We need our State parliaments. We also need local government. With those 2 other tiers of government in this country the Federal Parliament can make an important contribution to the continuing progress of the democratic form of Government in Australia. If one looks around the world today one sees the problems in some other countries where dictators or groups are endeavouring to take control. Every member of this House should give very serious consideration to something which is of vital importance to our country and to future generations- the maintaining of our system and of our democratic way of life. 
-This evening I want to speak on a matter concerning social security, but before I do so I should like to make 2 comments. The first is in relation to remarks made in this House about  Senator Murphy,  who is now  Mr Justice  Murphy, and the second is in relation to the comments of the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  when he spoke about opportunism on the part of the Opposition. I would hope that the same sorts of remarks could be said in regard to  Mr Justice  Murphy as were said about the legislation he introduced, the thought behind it, and this statement that he made: 
The Senate is entitled and expected to exercise resolutely but with discretion its power to refuse its concurrence to any financial measure, including a Tax Bill. There are no limitations on the Senate in the use of its constitutional powers, except the limitations imposed by discretion and reason. 
In answer to the interjection of the honourable member for Hume, that was said by the then  Senator Murphy,  who is now  Mr Justice  Murphy. I thought it rather ironical that at one particular stage a Minister,  Mr Bowen,  said that the Government would appeal to the High Court of Australia. Of course, I think that a decision and an opinion of one of our Justices should be given fairly solid consideration. Quite frankly, I think that the thought and consideration behind that statement show completely the hypocrisy of the comments that have been made in relation to certain actions and comments being made by members of the Opposition who are  accused of political expediency and a lot of other things. If the safety and security of this country, both in the economic and defence field, are at stake and at risk, then my personal opinion- I believe it is the opinion of many people to whom I have spoken in recent weeks throughout Queensland and New South Wales- is that any action that we might take to ensure the safety and security of this country should be taken. 
As I said, I want to speak tonight particularly about a matter relating to social security. I did not speak to the responsible Minister in this place because the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Wheeldon)  is in another place, and I felt that he could take the information from Hansard. I shall discuss the matter with him at a later date. The House may recall that I have on a number of occasions raised the matter of people in rural industry receiving social security benefits, even though those people may have a property, because if their income is nil they certainly cannot eat the grass on their properties. I believe that a case which has been presented to me illustrates what we have been putting forward from this side of the House on a number of occasions and substantiates the requests which we have made to the Minister in this regard. The gentleman in this case writes: 
If I may make the following comments: In the letter from the  Chairman,  Social Security Appeals Tribunal, of September 11, the statement that I am "not available for fulltime outside employment" is surely an incredible one, when the record shows that I have registered for fulltime employment with the Commonwealth Employment Service and inquired at that office at regular intervals for the past twentyone weeks. The statement "you are not considered to be unemployed within the meaning of the Social Services Act" cannot be substantiated. The Act does not differentiate between a person who was self-employed and one who worked for an employer. The essential requirements to qualify for unemployment relief are uncomplicated and can be stated very briefly. A person must be: (i) unemployed, (ii) capable of undertaking and willing to undertake suitable work, (iii) have taken reasonable steps to obtain such work. 
The  Chairman,  in her letter, might very well have said: " We are sorry. We based our finding on the provisions of the Social Services Act. We did not read the Departmental instructions on its own interpretation of the Act with special reference to self-employed graziers. The Department has now drawn our attention to these instructions which I am afraid must be observed even though they merely represent an opinion and are of very doubtful validity." 
I have also been given to understand that the Department has its own definitions concerning income, an example being that a loss on business cannot be subtracted from an income from investment in order to arrive at a net income. But a search by staff for confirmation of this in print was unsuccessful. In the initial rejection of my claim, income from assets had been suggested as a ground for precluding entitlement. 
I hope the foregoing comments will help to illustrate that the Department seems to be finding it difficult and is unwilling to look beyond a point at which it is used to looking. 
The gentleman concerned has provided a statement of his taxable income which shows a net loss of $500.40. My argument is that the case presented by this gentleman, I believe, should be given consideration and he should be granted social security payments. I now refer to a letter from the Social Security Appeals Tribunal dated 23 July. The letter is addressed to the person concerned, and it reads: 
The Tribunal sought, and has received, a report from the Department of Social Security on your case. After studying this, we are seeking clarification of certain aspects and will bring the information you were kind enough to furnish us, to the notice of the Department. 
We will be in touch with you . . . 
On 6 August 1975 the Tribunal wrote: 
We are writing to you concerning your appeal against a decision by the Department of Social Security. 
When your appeal was received we asked the Department to provide a report on the matter, which it was kind enough to do. We then studied your case and recommended to the Director-General of that Department that your appeal be upheld. 
As soon as a decision on our recommendation is received from the Director-General, we will advise you of the result of your appeal. 
Then in its letter of 1 1 September, to which I referred previously, the Tribunal said: 
We are writing to you concerning the outcome of your appeal ... 
The Director-General's decision on the matter has now been received, the outcome being that you are not considered to be unemployed within the meaning of the Social Services Act. By this he means that you are fully selfemployed on your farm and so are not available for fulltime outside employment. Unemployment benefit is not payable in such a case. 
Quite frankly, I believe that the comment of the gentleman who made representations to me in this case and the comment made by the Appeals Tribunal make it clear that this gentleman should receive the social security benefit. I believe also that it justifies what we on this side of the House have said on many occasions, and that is that if a person is unemployed, even though he has a property, and if he is available for employment, should receive the social security benefit during that period of time when he is not able to find employment. I believe that this illustrates the point that this compensation- it is a compensationshould be granted. When we hear of and see the number of people who are receiving this benefit in other circumstances I believe it makes a complete farce, firstly, of the comment made by the people on the Appeals Tribunal and, secondly of the decision of the Department in regard to this matter. As I said, I will have a discussion with the Minister. I state in fairness to him that I have not discussed this matter with  him personally- But I did feel that it was something that should be raised in the House because I believe that this is a case which illustrates the point we have been making from this side of the House over a long period of time. 
-I suggest that the honourable member for Port Adelaide might address the Chair instead of commenting to members of the National Country Party, and I would suggest that members of the National Country Party might listen to the honourable member in silence. I call the honourable member for Port Adelaide. 
In representing the people of this country there are things with which honourable members opposite do not concern themselves. Let no one tell me that honourable members opposite, either Liberal or National Country Party, get into their cars and drive thousands and thousands of miles. If they do all the things they say they do in servicing those areas, why did they not pressure the Government, when they were in power before 1972, to provide some of the facilities that have since been provided by the present Minister? No one asked the previous Minister for some of the facilities which have since been provided, such as additional staff, charter aircraft and the postage allowance. Those things have been given to honourable members opposite by the present Minister so that they can service their electorates. Those things were not asked for previously because honourable members opposite do not service their electorates. 
As I say, sooner or later the High Court of Australia is going to have to determine this question of electoral redistribution, because while the National Country Party wields the axe over the Liberal Party there is no chance of its being determined. While it is possible to get the sort of result which was achieved in 1974 in the Senate, which was in contradiction of the popular election of a Labor government in this Houseaggravated by the appointment of 2 independent people to the Senate in  Senator Bunton  and  Senator Field-  we are going to have to look outside the Parliament for someone to determine what democracy is all about. The National Country Party is putting up arguments which are unacceptable both to this House and to the people of Australia. It is doing the Australian people a great injustice. If we have a look at the situation in the various electorates and the size of the various electorates we can see quite simply why it is putting up this argument. The reason is that every large electorate is either a Labor electorate or a Liberal electorate. The Liberals are too weak to say anything. We have to carry the baton for them. 
As we can see, there are practically no Liberal members in the House to take part in the discussion on this matter. An hour ago they were complaining that they did not get enough time to discuss issues; now they are all outside licking their wounds because the National Country Party has won again. I point to such large electorates as Banks and Barton. My friend the honourable member for Bennelong represents a large electorate but he has to bend his knee to the National Country Party. There are 68 000 people on the electoral roll in Bennelong; probably the number is 70 000 by now. The honourable member for Bennelong has to service that number of people as against the 45 000 or 50 000 people on the rolls in some of the country electorates. But he has to accept that situation if the coalition is to survive. That is the situation right throughout the electorates in New South Wales. What will happen in South Australia in the electorates of Bonython, Kingston and Sturt if the Commissioners' report is not put into effect? Let us look at what will happen in South Australia at the next election in 1 977. 
National Country Party members- Ha, ha! 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! I suggest that honourable members come to order and cease interjecting. I remind the honourable member for Port Adelaide again that judging on his earlier comment it might be a fairly close points decision on who was provoking whom. But I suggest that interjections cease. I call the honourable member for Port Adelaide. 
What Will happen in South Australia where this question was looked at quite seriously? By 1977- the next election- the electorate of Bonython which is represented by my colleague,  Mr Nicholls,  will have 90 000 electors on the roll. The electorate of Kingston which is represented by my colleague,  Dr Gun,  Will have 78 000 electors on the roll. The electorate of Sturt, represented by one of the Liberal Party members, will have 72 000 electors on the roll. Wakefield, which is represented by another Liberal Party member, Will have approximately 46 000 electors on the roll. Yet Opposition members stand up on behalf of the coalition Opposition Parties and say what they would do to introduce and consolidate democracy in Australia. It has to be a sham. Tommy Smith would not believe it. It does not matter what State we look at. The Distribution Commissioners did their job on the Bills passed by the joint sitting of the Parliament. The appointment of these people was not objected to. There was no objection to the commissioners when they were appointed. We did not hear the Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  or the new Leader of the Liberal Party of Australia  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  talking about the inadequacies of the commissioners who were appointed. They all accepted the people who were appointed. 
What they did not accept, even before the commissioners did the job, were the reports of the commissioners because they interfered with the existence of the National Country Party. How can that Party survive? What a shambles. What a shock the people of this country will receive if they ever put this rat bag group back into government in Australia- the Liberal-National Country Party coalition. It has absolutely nothing to offer. Its new policies are to give all back to the States; not to generate uniform policies in Australia; to dismantle Medibank and dismantle legal aid. I say to honourable members opposite: Go and tell your electors that. Go and tell the working people and the country that your policies are correct in regard to electoral reforms. It does not matter what Opposition members say. Our voice is reinforced by the fact that people in our party who represent major electorates in area- the honourable member for Darling  (Mr FitzPatrick),  the honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis)  and the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard)-  are the speakers on our list. They are the people most forthright in their support for our policies. This must be an indication to honourable members opposite that they feel seriously about the matter. 
The Leader of the National Country Party talked about the South Australian election coming as some sort of a shock to the Labor Party. I suppose the fact that our vote was down to about 52 per cent of the total vote does come as some sort of shock to a party that is used to getting 56 per cent of the total vote. But under the Thomas Playford regime that existed in South Australia from 1933 to 1965, we have received up to 57 per cent of the vote and been defeated. What Opposition members are doing is following the old line. They are going back into the 1950s, the 1940s, the 1930s and the 1920s, to the areas in which Opposition members thought they could exist on these policies. It is not on today. They are talking to a new electorate which will not accept it. If the National Country Party and the Liberal Party continue in their operations in regard to the Constitution and in their opposition to electoral reform and in the manner they have conducted themselves over the last year there is a fair chance that the processes of democracy in Australia as we know them in this Parliament will not survive. A new system will have to be devised. 
In my electorate in South Australia in the last State elections, our vote went up. It did not go down. But there was no great disruption in the voting pattern in the city of Adelaide at the last State election. Don Dunstan has won his fourth election and I believe that if he wants to stand for another 10 elections he will win them. The National Country Party is just emerging to challenge the Liberal Movement and the Liberal Party. I just cannot follow the parties that the Opposition keeps coming up with. Honourable members opposite are geniuses. They always have a different party to represent them. Irrespective of the number of parties that are formed - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The time allotted for the second reading of the Bill has expired. 
Question put: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
-Before I comment on the estimates for the Department of Foreign Affairs I would like to refer to a couple of things that the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Kerin)  said. He started by making a rather remarkable statement. He said that after listening to the speeches of my 2 colleagues the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)  and the honourable member for Ryan  (Mr Drury)  it was evident that the hard liners had again taken over the Liberal Party. I say that nobody has taken over the Liberal Party- hard liners or anyone else. The two distinguished gentlemen who have spoken have shown that at least the Liberal and National Country Parties still hold firm to the idea of looking after the safety and security of this country, not only in relation to its defence but also in relation to its economy. I only hope that the people of Australia will very soon be given an opportunity to show that they also are concerned about the safety and security of this country, both from an economic and a defence point of view. 
When one studies some of the comments that are made by honourable members on the Government side, not only on this occasion but also on other occasions, one finds a continuing failure to appreciate some of the circumstances and problems that confront this country. They still go along with the old line that if you stick your head in the sand for a sufficiently long period of time nothing will happen. The honourable member for Evans  (Mr Mulder)  spoke about assistance and aid from Australia. I think that this is important. Let me refer to what was said by the honourable member for Ryan. He spoke about the finance that was made available to the national liberation organisations. I have said on more than one occasion and I will say it again that this is one of the matters of which I am highly critical and one of the matters on which the World Council of Churches shows a lack of appreciation of the realities of the international situation. Unfortunately in that organisation there are some who are deliberately supporting the left wing and there are others who are misguided and follow along without a full appreciation of what they are actually doing. This has been proved in statements by folk who are closely associated with the countries who are affected by these terrorist groups and various organisations. 
One subject that has been commented on by some honourable members on the Government side was law and order. I hope that the Government will look at this situation and the assistance that is given to these national liberation organisations. I support the comments made by the honourable member for Evans and the honourable member for Ryan in regard to assistance for many of these countries. I think that sometimes perhaps we do not face up to the type of assistance that could be given. I am thinking in terms of an article which appeared in  The Economist  in September. Under the heading  Droughts Still Mean Hunger  and dealing with the situation in Ethopia, this article stated: 
Ethopia's military government is appealing for food again: It needs 1 50,000 tons of grain and 50,000 tons of high protein food for drought-stricken areas. But the organisations and governments which contributed in previous years have not answered this time. Foreign relief agencies say there is already enough food in the country. And along with Ethopians themselves, donors are waiting to see if the October harvest is as good as it promises to be- and if the failing market system has actually collapsed. 
I think that we might study that report and consider the situation in Ethopia. Australia has a problem related to the powdered milk supplies which are building up here again. One way in which we could make a very valuable contribution to the situation in Ethopia would be to make available through our aid program powdered milk to these people. In that way we would be handling the problem in Australia and providing assistance to a country where it is needed. 
There is no doubt that in the international field we are confronted by a difficult situation. This is not being faced up to by this Government. As I said earlier, I believe that what has happened in so many instances is that this Government has adopted almost the ostrich attitude of putting its head into the sand in the hope that if this is done for a sufficiently long period our problems and difficulties will go away. This attitude has proved incorrect in respect of defence as well as in relation to the economy. 
I was delighted to hear, in this respect, the statement by the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  who said in a speech that he made in this Parliament the other day that the school cadet corps would be reinstated in Australia when the Liberal and National Country Parties are returned to government. This corps is an important factor, I believe, and makes a valuable contribution to Australia. The value of this organisation in the defence context has been argued by many people. There are many aspects in relation to defence in respect of which this movement makes a valuable contribution. I have had the privilege of attending in my electorate parades by some of the lads who are in the air cadet corps and the army cadet corps. To see the standard of behaviour of these lads, the contribution that they are making and the community association with those organisations reveals to me something that I believe is valuable. 
As my friend from Paterson says, this is character building. When we look at some of the things that this Government is doing, one of the major needs in this country today is to rebuild the character of our people. 
The problems that confront Australia internationally certainly have not lessened. We should think back again to the remark which was made not so very long ago that there was no foreseeable danger to this country for at least 1 5 years. When one looks at some of the events which are happening in areas very close to our shores, such as in Timor, one realises just how unwise and how incorrect that statement was and also how unwise the Government has been to come forward with a policy based on the correctness of that claim. 
Quite frankly, I say that the Indonesians deserve credit and commendation from all the countries of the world. I believe that they have shown a remarkable restraint in not taking action in Timor when the security of many of their people has been threatened. Particularly should we express our appreciation to the Indonesians for the fact that they have not taken action in this situation. Surely we must anticipate that the Indonesians cannot remain oblivious for ever to what is happening in Timor if they have regard to the safety and security as well as the future of their people and their country. I believe that unless pretty drastic and positive action is taken by countries in the area, including Australia, we can anticipate that the Indonesians must act in the interests of their own safety and security. 
One wonders with respect to the situation in Timor- we can only try to form an opinion- how it happened that the Fretilin forces had the equipment and capacity to take the action which they did in such a short period. At present, I say no more than that, although I think that this aspect does open up possibilities and considerations for us in relation to outside influence again coming into an area and that outside influence not being friendly to our way of life or to our standards of life. The discussion of these estimates in this Committee is important. It reminds us of the responsibilities that we have as a Parliament and as a nation. This Government is ignoring those responsibilities. 
-With other members of the Opposition who have spoken on this legislation this afternoon I support it with perhaps the reservation that we want to hear a little further from the States on their consideration and their opinion of this matter. I was interested to hear the remarks of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  the other day when he introduced the legislation. It can be said that some of the points that he made emphasise one of the difficulties and one of the problems of constitutional referenda. Perhaps there is a fear in the minds of many people when it comes to changing the Constitution. I think this fear comes from all quarters and not merely from one section. I think the fear arises because people do not know what might develop or what might happen after the alteration. That is why, as already mentioned on 2 occasions by the right honourable member for Bruce  (Mr Snedden)  and the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr McKenzie),  there is a difficulty in having constitutional alterations passed and in fact in having any referenda passed by the people. 
I was interested in the remarks of the Prime Minister when he mentioned that the reference of powers by the States to the Australian Parliament is already allowed for in the Constitution. He went on to say: 
This provision has been little used, largely because of the doubts that have been held by the States as to whether a reference once given could be revoked and whether a reference could be given for a term of years only or on conditions. The proposed Constitution alteration before the House will remedy this position by making it quite clear that a reference given by the States will be revocable, that it may be given subject to conditions, including conditions regulating the kinds of laws that may be passed in pursuance of it, and may be made for a limited period of time. It will also make it clear that the reference of a matter by a State will not prevent the State from passing laws with respect to that matter. 
A great deal has been said over a period in regard to the problems confronting Australia with its 6 States and its Federal Government. Reference has been made to education, transport, health and matters in the international field. They all sometimes require a greater degree of co-operation from the States and the Federal Government than has been shown in the past. I agree with that. I think there is a necessity in this country for greater co-operation between the States and the Federal Government. 
However, I do not feel that perhaps the only way of overcoming this problem is by giving more and more control to a central government. I have said that for many years irrespective of what political party may be in control of the central government. One of the ways that difficulties could be overcome would be by greater cooperation between the Ministers in the States and the Ministers in the Federal Government. I realise that in that regard there are political difficulties. The political situation being what it is there is a very grave danger of the States trying to take an advantage and saying: 'The Federal Minister would not let us do this'. I agree that there is an element of difficulty in regard to this matter, but I feel that advances have been made, for example in the fields of education, health and agriculture. I think the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  would agree that in discussions between the Attorneys-General there has been on many occasions a great deal of co-operation between the Attorneys-General of the States and of the Commonwealth. In my opinion this is something that could be explored and committees comprising those gentlemen and their permanent heads could be set up so that consultation could be carried out with a minimum of delay. 
I think one of the problems relating to progress in Australia is the set-up that we have at the moment. Perhaps lack of co-operation is not quite the right phrase to use but in the set-up there is not co-operation to the degree to which there should be co-operation. I have stated on a number of occasions that I am not in favour of growth centres and yet in that regard we have seen a degree of co-operation between the Federal and State governments. I have an objection to growth centres because in my opinion it is a forced growth. You tend to discourage areas which are trying to make efforts on their own and because both State and Federal governments make special and significant concessions to a growth centre there is a danger that other areas will say: 'Why should we worry? Let's wait and see. We might be picked as a growth centre later on'. 
I would rather see development along the lines of decentralisation by encouragement being given to all local governments so that they in turn, within their own administrative framework, may be able to work in the sphere of decentralisation. As has happened in many areas in my electorate, I should like to see work which is of advantage not only to the people of a particular district but also to the people of many other areas and many other districts surrounding it. I think this is one sphere in which we could have a greater degree of co-operation between the Federal and States governments and local governments without having enforced control in enforced growth areas. 
I mentioned earlier that one of the problems confronting the acceptance of constitutional alterations is the fear in the States, and sometimes even within the Federal sphere, of greater powers in one area reducing the powers and the capacity in another. In his remarks the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  mentioned that the inference of conservatism from the Opposition was blocking the progress of more control for the Federal Government. I refer to the report of the Joint Committee on Constitutional Review which was presented in 1958. The House may recall that that Committee met in 1956 and 1957. There were some very distinguished gentlemen from both sides of the Parliament on that committee. 
I will name them with a great deal of pleasure, because I think they were gentlemen who made a pretty valuable contribution. I think their report shows the value of a joint committee discussing matters which concern both Houses.  Senator Neil  O "Sullivan was the  Chairman. Senator Kennelly  and  Senator Reg  Wright were members, as was  Senator McKenna.  Other members were  Mr Downer, Mr Hamilton, Mr Pollard, Mr Calwell, Mr Drummond, Mr Joske, Mr Ward  and the present Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam.  I think that report can be accepted as a very valuable report which achieved a great deal. I would make only one comment following what was said by the honourable member for Hawker which shows possibly one of the problems and difficulties confronting constitutional alteration. One comment in the report was: 
The Labor members of the Committee considered that full legislative powers should be vested in the Commonwealth Parliament with the duty and authority to create States possessing delegated constitutional powers . . . 
The next comment would be obvious. It continued:  ... but since it was not possible to gain agreement to this effect the Committee was concerned to ascertain what measure of agreement was possible between members from both sides of the Parliament. 
I think that that report expresses one of the difficulties and one of the variances of opinion between members of the present Opposition and members of the present Government. I do not take away from members of the Labor Party their right to have that opinion. Many of them have that opinion and they are entitled to it. But there is a difference. They believe in greater control for a central government. I believe that the members of the Opposition are not happy about that and we strongly oppose that particular thinking. I believe that if one increases the power of a central government one increases the dangers of bureaucracy in this country. 
No matter what happens, Ministers of the Crown and the Prime Minister are responsible to the people, and every so often they have to face the electors. Public servants are not in that category. In saying that, I am not in any way being critical of the Public Service. It does a tremendous job and we are dependent upon it. We are dependent upon its advice and assistance and I believe in most cases that advice and assistance is given to the respective parties, irrespective of political views, to the advantage of the progress and development of this country. I come back to the point I made that too much centralised power means inevitably that decisions would be made by bureaucrats, in many instances without the ability of the Minister to be able really to give the full study and consideration that he should give to the decisions. 
I am sure everybody will agree that the work of a parliamentarian, be he a back bencher or a Minister, in these days is increasing. The amount of paper work and the amount of administrative work have increased. As honourable members know, I have been a member of this House now for nearly 24 years. I would say that the amount of administrative work which I have now, compared with when I was first elected, is at least double, the amount of paper work has more than doubled. If there is too much centralised power there is the danger that we will take away power and authority from the States. They will be brought under the centralised control in Canberra. Ministers would not have time to meet deputations and to have discussions with the leaders of the community. Honorable members should consider that if we took away the responsibilities, the work and the tasks of State Ministers and placed them under a central control by Federal ministers, what would be the possibility of those Federal ministers being able to give the attention that would be needed to matters of decision? I believe for that very important reason that very strong consideration must be given to the continuation of the Federal system and the authority and the responsibility of the State governments. 
That brings me to the point that there is a great deal of value in this legislation which is being presented for the alteration of the Constitution by the insertion of proposed new sections 108a and 108b. Having said that, I believe that we must give attention to what the States have in mind in relation to this proposal. Consideration must be given to their opinions and to their points of view. So, it is for that reason that, as was pointed out by the honourable member for Bennelong, we in the Opposition support the constitutional proposals involved in the change which the legislation presented by the Prime Minister seeks to achieve. But we believe also that further consideration must be given to the suggestion and that the opinion of the States must be sought and considered before finality is reached on this matter. 
-I think I would uphold the point of order raised by the Minister. All I would point out is that I think the honourable member for Bass was possibly replying to some comment made by the honourable member for Wilmot, but I would suggest that the honourable member for Wilmot was also out of order. I uphold the point of order raised by the Minister. 
-My Party supports this legislation, but there are one or two queries that we would like answered. One or two matters, perhaps whilst not causing concern, give some cause for further consideration. These Bills in one sense are only machinery measures. The first and perhaps one of the important factors relating to them is that they maintain the status of  Mr Justice  Woodward. I think this is something that is necessary and important. If a person of his calibre and qualifications is coming in to head an organisation such as the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation there is need for the protection of what one might call his normal course of responsibility and his normal duty. 
I am afraid that the speech of the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  did nothing to clear up the query about the transfer of power for telephone tapping- I will have something to say about this as a later stage- from the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Enderby)  to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  I support the comments that have been made by my colleagues the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  and the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly).  One point raised by the honourable member for Hunter perhaps is important and interesting. He said that ASIO was supported by the Labor Government both when in government and when in Opposition. Too frequently we tend to think in terms of ASIO being an organisation of people hiding behind posts and in corners and trying to find out what they can about the character of different people. One of the points made by the honourable member for Hunter- in my opinion it was perhaps overemphasisedwas that a person in a position of responsibility surely should also accept with that responsibility the fact that his life is no longer the life of an individual but is the life of somebody who is dealing with the future of his country. So there should be a protection for the safety and security of the country. 
I accept the fact that people given a responsibility in an organisation such as ASIO do not investigate or perhaps spy upon a person's private life in areas where there is no necessity to do so in the interests of the safety and security of the country. A great deal is happening in the world. Comments were made about the Central Intelligence Agency and about what had happened in the relations with that organisation and the prestige of the United States of America. I do not intend to go into or debate the matter of the merits of or justifications for actions of the CIA. I would like to say one thing. There have been occasions when the CLA has taken action that has protected not only the security of the United States but the security of other countries as well. I will leave it at that. 
I think we have to be aware of the situation in the international field. One of the real problems perhaps confronting our world at the moment is the increase in terrorist activity. I have been a little disappointed in the action and attitude of some people in relation to this. I have said that if this attitude develops to any marked degree international diplomacy and security will be at risk. While there may be some groups or some people who feel that at this moment it is to their advantage if this view develops much further, it will be to the detriment of every country in the world and to the detriment of the safety and security of those countries and of individuals. 
I believe that organisations such as the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation and even the Central Intelligence Agency are necessary in the international scene at the moment for the safety and security of individual countries. However, I have said that one of the areas of concern- perhaps that is putting it a little too strongly is the transfer of the control of ASIO from the AttorneyGeneral to the Prime Minister. With control goes the power to have oversight of, to check on and even to make inroads into, the lives of private individuals. We must assert without any equivocation the need to be very careful about this aspect. The protection of civil liberties must be uppermost in our minds. The point was made and I think well madethat, with all of the responsibilities of the office of Prime Minister and that the holder of that office bears as an individual, there is the danger that the Prime Minister will have less time and it will be beyond his ability to give sufficient attention to making sure that civil liberties are protected. I make the point that this is something about which we must be extremely careful. For that reason I say that we must look again and give further consideration to that aspect of the legislation. Speaking of the legislation generally, I say that we support it. 
-Is the amendment seconded? 
-I point out to the honourable member for Shortland that whilst in the States Grants (Capital Assistance) Bill there may be a certain opportunity to make some comment in regard to financial practices from the Federal sphere, I think the honourable member is going a little deeper and a little wider into certain aspects of the matter than can be justified by the legislation before the House. 
I will ensure that I bring my remarks within the broad scope which you have indicated. 
On 22 October I told this chamber that when overseas I was asked why the Australian Opposition was offering money for information and documents on Australian overseas loan negotiations. That matter is related to this Bill because the comment was made that one could get any kind of information that one wanted when one offered money for it. The Australian people would like to know the answer and I am sure that this chamber would like to know the answer. When the Appropriation Bills Nos. 1 and 2, which are inter-related with the legislation before the chamber, are blocked in another place the Australian people need to be told that I was also asked by a very responsible person why the Australian Government wanted to replace existing foreign equity in our resources with Arab equity. I replied that it had never been suggested by anyone in Australia during the overseas loans debate that existing foreign equity in Australia's resources was to be replaced by Arab equity. I said that such a proposal was not nor never had been Australian Government or Australian Labor Party policy and that I could not understand how anyone in Australia or overseas could have gained that impression. In my view any Australian who conveyed that impression abroad was denigrating and misrepresenting not only this Government but also Australia. I challenge the Deputy Leader of the Opposition to tell the truth and to reveal who communicated that impression abroad, because it was another great lie like the great lie on Vietnam that the Opposition perpetrated. 
The motives of those people who are blocking Appropriation Bills Nos. 1 and 2 in the Senate and their inter-relationship with the legislation before the chamber need to be questioned, as do the motives of those people who told overseas investors who wanted to replace overseas equity - 
-First of all I would like to thank the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  and the Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  for their kind words. I would also like to thank my nominator and seconder, and the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  for his remarks. I appreciate the work that he did during his term as  Chairman  of Committees and  Deputy Speaker  in this Parliament. The Leader of the Opposition spoke about my pastoral experiences. I am reminded of certain words of the late Archie Cameron who once said that one of the things I did in my pastoral duties was to look after the sheep that were fleeced by certain people in a certain profession. Possibly that experience also would be of great value in this House. I might say to the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  that if he had put forward the same proposal during the last Parliament I would have been in wholehearted agreement, but over recent months I have changed my mind and now do not agree with his proposal at all. Of the honourable member for Scullin, at some stage you,  Mr Speaker,  and I might need his services, not as a  Chairman  of Committees but in his medical capacity as an anaesthetist to some honourable members who go over their time. 
May I make just two brief observations. A great deal has been said in this House about Parliament and parliamentary democracy. One of the remarks was passed by the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  and I think we should take notice of it. He said that neither you,  Mr Speaker,  nor I nor any other occupant of the Chair could carry out his duties without the support of honourable members. I believe that at this stage with the complexity of our public life, with the challenge that is being thrown out to our parliamentary institution, there comes to each and every one of us in this House on both sides a tremendous responsibility. I do not exclude from that remark the members of the Press because I believe they too have a responsibility in this twentieth century. There are 2 things of paramount importance. One is the rights and privileges of every member, including members of the Opposition. Irrespective of what might have happened in this House recently I believe that is one of the things to which attention must be given. The second is that I believe we face a responsibility in view of the number of members who have been elected on the government side to see that members of this Parliament accept their responsibility as representatives of the electorate. 
Because of the complexities I believe there are 2 dangers. There is the danger of executive control that is sometimes overridden by departments and departmental heads. Each and every one of us must remember that the most vital and important functions that we have to fulfil in this place are our responsibility to the electorate, to the people who are our masters- that was said in the  recent election- to the government of a democracy and to make sure that we do nothing to lower the standards of this House, the responsibility of this House and the progress of Australia. To you,  Mr Speaker,  I offer my wannest personal congratulations. You may rest assured that during the term of office for which it has been my privilege to be elected you will have my wholehearted support in every action that enhances the prestige of this House. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted.  (The document read as follows): 

<graphic href="098131197602196_43_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="098131197602196_43_1.jpg"></graphic>

<para class="block" pgwide="yes">The following table shows the Australian Government's contribution towards the States' 1975-76 revenue budgets: 

<graphic href="098131197602196_43_2.jpg"></graphic>

Government supporters talk about trade. A previous speaker made a very vicious attack on what he deemed to be the Red nations. We do not accept their political philosophy, but let us remember that in the 2 great world wars they were our allies, and those to whom we now give a lot of praise- and deservedly so- were our enemies. If honourable members opposite look at the cemeteries of the world they will see where our dead are buried and who killed them. It is about time Australians realised what it is all about when they talk about defence. It is a question of intelligent understanding of an issue. It cannot be fought out any longer by bullets, because they destroy somebody's flesh and blood. It can be fought out on intelligent understanding of what the people in the country want. It was intelligently done with China. Would it have been done had we not done it? No. This aggressive policy is going to be adopted now because it is deemed to be the right thing to do. 
In the few minutes left I cannot afford to overlook what happened to us on 11 November. It was a disaster to democracy. This House is no longer the superior House in financial matters. It is the slum of the Senate; the broken down outer House. Our financial structure has been removed and, in my legal opinion, not fairly removed. If it was fairly removed, what a great need there is for somebody, whoever it may be, in a speech deemed to be the Governor-General's Speech, to refer to the fact that we cannot possibly continue to operate under these rules, because it means this: Whenever a Senate, whatever its political complexion, rejects Supply, we, the House of the people, must face an election. The Senate does not. We have gone through the sham of a double dissolution because by chance, not by request or by advice, there was a double dissolution on 2 1 Bills that were objected to by the people who now occupy the present Government benches. We do not approve of a Chief Justice giving advice as to what he thinks is the situation. That is left to the 7 judges of the High Court. We do not approve of it. It clearly shows that what happened to us on 11 November was the result of previous consultation. It is clearly known that the Chief Justice, as far back as the middle of October, was expressing views as to what he thinks should have happened. This is not fair, honourable or reasonable from the point of view of the then Attorney-General, the former honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Enderby),  who is no longer with us. Let me make it clean He was never asked for any legal opinion on reserve power on supply. He gave it because it was there. He was never asked for it. All he was asked for were the arrangements for alternative methods of supply. When he explained them he was assured that that was accepted as satisfactory. Section 57 of the Constitution, the double dissolution section, provides for a conflict between the Houses to be decided by the people. Why could not such a situation arise again in the case of a supply Bill, whoever has this so-called reserve power? On the occasion in question we would have been faced with fighting a double dissolution as a result of the actions of a Senate that had denied supply, and we would have won handsomely because by that time there would have been massive unemployment in Australia, every function of government virtually would have been brought to a standstill and the people would have solved the problem by clearly indicating to the Senate that that was not the way to carry out its functions. The Senate did not do its duty. The appropriate thing was for a message to be sent to the Senate to either accept or reject the Bill and if it was rejected twice there would be a double dissolution. There is an urgent need for an amendment to the motion for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply to clearly indicate that this sort of thing cannot happen again. There is no legal precedent for it. The reserve power was with us. 
If we had allowed the community we represent, the 40 per cent odd, to break the rules there would have been anarchy in this country. We accept the verdict of the people but we do not accept the reasons for our dismissal. We were made, undeservedly, to look guilty men. We were made to look inferior. Somebody else was installed as Prime Minister on a guarantee that he could give supply when he could not give any guarantee as to what a Senate could do. Nobody in this House can guarantee what a Senate can do. We were wrongly dismissed and there has been violence done to the Constitution. Let us make sure that there is an amendment and that the people understand it so that if a Senate again rejects supply there will be a double dissolution immediately. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. I call the honourable member for Casey, and I remind the House that this is a maiden speech. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Posts and Telecommunications. I am rather concerned at the long time which is elapsing between the application for and the installation of private telephones. Will he have investigations made within the Department about the situation in regard to materials and equipment? Will he have discussions with Australian Telecommunications Commission officials to make sure that the ultimate responsibility and authority are still retained by this Parliament? 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 

<graphic href="098131197602266_14_0.jpg"></graphic>


 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The Minister's time has expired. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
-Is the amendment seconded? 
-With the indulgence of the House, I have agreed that the Minister for Transport may make a brief statement. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted.  (The document read as follows)- 

<graphic href="098131197603036_33_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="098131197603036_34_0.jpg"></graphic>

In Australia 30 per cent of taxes go to education and social welfare. Another 30 per cent are spent on public works. In fact over 90 per cent of the entire cost of capital works in Australia is financed by the taxpayer. In this respect there is a marked contrast between Australia and overseas countries and one of great significance for the economic analyst. It has, however, so far as we know, been ignored in discussions of economic policy at both official and unofficial levels. Over the past decade government capital expenditures have averaged nearly 10 per cent of GNP in Australia compared with only 2 to 4 per cent in most other Western countries. The capital component of Australian public expenditure is also easily the highest in the Western world-about 33 per cent, compared with 21 per cent in the United Kingdom, 20 per cent in France and 1 9 per cent in Canada. 
I point out that in this regard, the Budget practices adopted by the Australian Treasurer are at variance with the Budget practices adopted by most other countries in the world. We are odd man out in the way in which we do this. My suggestion that we should divide into capital and revenue expenditure represents a return, not just to normal financial orthodoxy, but to Treasury orthodoxy as understood by most countries in the world. This so called deficit of $4.5 billion does not mean that we are over spending. We are not over spending in terms of our current expenditure; we are putting aside an extra $4.8 billion of capital works. I simply ask that in this regard we do what most other countries do and consider these in separate accounts, as they should be. I am not suggesting for one moment that the $4.8 billion for capital works does not have to be found; what I am saying is that Australia does not have a deficit problem. We have a very real liquidity problem but that is a different thing and it should be tackled by different instruments. 
The Treasury in Australia is taking a course which is at variance with that taken by Treasuries in most other countries of the civilised world and this practice has built up over perhaps the last 20 to 25 years. I believe that there has been consistent misbehaviour by the Federal Treasury during that time. We are not overspending. What we are doing is not financing our capital works in the normal way. I believe they can be financed in the normal way. Of course, we can get more from the Australian loan market and we can do it without raising interest rates if we go about it in the proper way. I will not go into those details because, as honourable members know, I have made available in another place details of what I think should be done and I will not have time at this stage to say what those details are. 
It is true that using the central bank through Treasury bills puts more money into the market. That is a normal open market operation which any economist understands. There is not the slightest reason, if we are putting excess funds into the market, that we cannot cancel those excess funds. A very simple device by which it can be done is by raising the statutory reserve deposits of the trading banks. And that is not a credit squeeze. I am not saying that we should raise the statutory reserve deposits in such a way as to reduce the funds at present in the market. 
What I am saying is that if the policy of the Federal Government puts more money into the market- an undesirable excess in the market- we should bleed off that undesirable excess, and no more, by raising the statutory reserve deposits or in other ways. This can be done. Any competent banker or economist knows the devices by which this can be done, and it is not inflationary. It is nonsense to say that we cannot increase the deficit without inflating. It is time we came to the end of that suggestion. I believe that this problem - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)There is no point of order. 
-I accept the point raised by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith. I said 'members of the House' but I meant to say 'officers in their positions'. The only matter to be considered at the moment is a request from the Chair to the honourable member. 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended- 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent - 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith moving a motion relating to the Attorney-General and the Prime Minister. 
I have moved that motion,  Mr Deputy  SpeakerMotion (by  Mr Sinclair)  put: 
That the honourable member for Corio be not further heard. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering these 2 measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
I support the motion in regard to the Address-in-Reply and reject the amendment moved by the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins).  The GovernorGeneral's Speech gives an outline of a program which, it is hoped, will be implemented by a government that has come into power in this country- in this, the thirtieth Parliament- after a time of disturbance both in the political and the economic fields. I was interested to read some of the comments in the Governor-General's Speech because they give an indication of some of the problems which I believe have confronted this country and an indication of some of the hopes that this Government has for the future. 
I want to make 2 points in regard to portions of speeches made by members of the Opposition. The first is in regard to the economic position in Australia. The Opposition has said on many occasions that the economic difficulties facing this country were a world wide phenomenon. When we were in Opposition we acknowledged that the economic difficulties were world wide but we said that because of the action of the then Government, which is now the Opposition, because of its failure to appreciate the circumstances of the economy, because it endeavoured to do many things far too quickly and because it failed to appreciate the situation which confronted it as a government, it aggravated the economic situation to a far greater degree than was really necessary. Our side has put forward the argument that because Australia is not as dependent upon the importation of crude oil, which is one of the factors contributing to difficulties in many countries in the economic scene- for example, Japan and other countries- the economic impact of the world problem should not have been as great in Australia as it was in some other countries. That is the contention which we have made. We do not fail to appreciate the problems that confronted the previous Government, but we say that it lacked completely and absolutely the capacity to face and to overcome the realities of the economic situation. 
The second point is in regard to the comments of the Opposition relating to the double dissolution and to the actions prior to that dissolution. In listening to every speech by the Opposition on that subject and even in recent times to the attack on  Mr Murdoch  and his section of the Press and perhaps some other sections of the media, I have been rather amazed that the Opposition has always blamed everybody else and not itself. There has been no comment on the actions that the then Government took prior to the double dissolution or on what was called the loans affair and the fraudulent minute which was passed at an Executive Council meeting. If one traces the actions of the then government one realises that these were the reasons why the Senate at that time questioned the passing of the Budget. I would hope that, if a government of which I was a member behaved in the same manner and took actions which were as reprehensible, any Senate, even if it was a Labor-controlled Senate, would take exactly the same action as was taken by our Liberal-Country Party senators on that occasion. 
I believe that the situation has almost come to the point where the present Opposition, as I said earlier, is not blaming itself. It is in almost exactly the same position, one might say, as that of people criticising a judge in a court for sentencing a criminal for engaging in an unlawful action. I believe that the Opposition has made exactly the same mistake in relation to the situation facing it today. An accusation has been made that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  is being attacked because certain sections of the community are trying to destroy him, that people are trying to undermine him because he is such an outstanding Leader of the Opposition. 
As my colleague, the honourable member for Indi, said, he does not need any help to destroy himself. I acknowledge the ability of the Leader of the Opposition. He has many qualities which provide him with a foundation for leadership, but in my opinion he lacks really those qualities which make a great leader. If, as he has charged, he is being attacked by sections of the media at the moment, surely he, by his mistakes, by his inability to assess properly a situation, has set the foundation for the belief that those comments and criticisms are justifiable The action of the Opposition at the moment reminds me. of the story of the dear old lady who attended a passing out parade at which her son was a member of the armed forces. As the soldiers walked past she said: 'Well, well, look; only Fred is in step'. It appears to me that that is what the Opposition is saying at the moment, that it is the only one who is in step and everyone else is out of step. 
I want to expand on a comment which I made when I accepted and thanked the House for the nomination as  Chairman  of Committees of this House. I said that I believe that we have to be extremely careful in this present political situation of 3 aspects of government. The first is a complete domination of the Executive. That, I believe, is perhaps even more dangerous because of the majority that these parties have in government. The second thing is that there must not be a complete and absolute acceptance of advice from departments or departmental heads without there being made a complete analysis of that advice, because I believe that there is sometimes a problem of a departmental head or of a department looking at a proposal along a particular and stereotyped line. In one way that is not a criticism; I believe it is just a natural corollary to the life which they live and the associations which they have. But there is a stereotyped attitude towards certain aspects which need a careful, analytical approach from those who are in the political sphere. I hope that at this time in our political history our Executive will make that critical approach and that critical analysis. Therefore, before it accepts completely advice from the department or departmental heads, I hope it will give the advice very careful examination. 
The third thing is that there is a necessity to appreciate the value of the individuals who are called back benchers in this Parliament. There is a valuable contribution to be made by the back benchers in this Parliament. I believe that sometimes back benchers on both sides of the Parliament see and appreciate situations with a greater degree of political clarity because of the sphere of activity in which they are engaged than does a Minister or those in our Executive. I believe that many of the mistakes that were made by the Liberal-Country Party coalition in 1971 and 1972 were made because our Executive listened too much to the advice of the departments and the departmental heads, and I believe that is particularly true in relation to the Treasury. 
I move to what is now called our telecommunications. I believe that this matter should be of concern to every member in the House. I have in my hand a book entitled  Telecom 2000.  It is a magnificent production. It gives a summary of main conclusions and recommendations. I might say that I could come up with some conclusions and recommendations that would not be the same as those which appear in this book. The book deals with the economic, technical and social future, etc. It gives, I believe, a fairly good analysis of the scientific and technological advancements in this telecommunications era. Part B of the book deals with social futures, economic futures and various other things such as that. It deals with what is going to happen in this field through to the year 2000 and what advances and progress can be made. I believe that there has been and that there will be a great deal of progress made in the field of telecommunications. It is a marvellous thing, as is anticipated in this book, that in the not too distant future people will be able to telephone the United Kingdom, the United States of America and other countries by means of subscriber trunk dialling. But what is the good of that facility if people do not have telephones on which to make the call. It is in that regard that I believe we need to show some concern. It is completely ridiculous to talk about what we are going to do in the year 2000 when in this country there are so many people who do not have a telephone at all. I received a letter just today from somebody who made an application for a telephone in 1973. New wires have been put into that area and that person has not yet had a telephone connected. I have received letters from people on this subject in the last few weeks. I have received polite letters from the Telecommunications Commission saying that it is sorry, that it regrets that it will not be able to put on a telephone until 1977. Let me say that in Australia in the year 1976 that is completely and absolutely ridiculous. I believe that some attention has to be given to this matter. Let me give a brief example of the situation in my own electorate. 
Whether it is a 36-hour week, a 35-hour week or anything at all it does not matter. There is no planning in this either. That is one of the tragedies. Although we have advancements in the technological field it is ridiculous in this year of 1976 that we cannot get a telephone connected. I shall give only 2 examples. People who live in the areas of Wauchope and Gloucester in my own electorate cannot make STD calls. It costs 12c to make an STD call from Port Macquarie and it costs generally somewhere in the vicinity of $1.35 to make a similar call from Wauchope because Wauchope does not have the STD facility. The exchange building in Wauchope was a temporary building 25 years ago, and that building still stands. As I said, people have been waiting for a telephone to be installed since 1973. 1 almost said since 1793; I hope to goodness that in another hundred years somebody does not have to get up and say that he has been waiting for a telephone connection since 1973. Some people have been waiting since 1973. People who now have made application have been told, as I have said, that in some instances they will not receive a telephone until the end of this year or perhaps until early 1977. We talk about decentralisation, growth centres and development to take people away from our capital cities. One of the most important factors is communications, and unfortunately in this field we are further back now than we were four or five years ago. The Governor-General said in his Speech: 
We assemble at a time when large areas of New South Wales and Queensland are being devastated by severe flooding. It is a terrible experience for those affected and my Government expresses its deepest concern for their plight. The Government is consulting with the States in taking action to ensure that all proper assistance is available. The Natural Disasters Organisation is operating smoothly. 
That is one of the problems being confronted by people in rural areas. It makes my blood boil when I read in newspapers and hear people in the metropolitan areas talk about rural people being spoon-fed. If I remember correctly, my friend the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  asked a question about how much subsidy was paid to the motor car industry. How much subsidy is paid to secondary industry when we relate the subsidy to the tariff proposals? I do not object to these subsidies if they make any contribution to employment and the establishment of industry and other things but, for goodness sake, why do we hear people criticise assistance to people in rural industries? We should not forget that in many instances that assistance is keeping down the price of primary products to individuals who buy them and who work in secondary industry. Why is there this criticism when the Government also is helping people in secondary industry? I have been referring to some of the problems facing people in rural industry. Today they face floods as well as all their other difficulties and problems. 
I come back to the point I made relating to the Department of Post and Telecommunications. I have said before, and I will say it for as long as I am a member of this House, that the Telecommunications Commission is a service to the community as well as a business activity. It must never be forgotten that it is a service to the community and that this service must be given to the people who deserve it and need it- these people in rural areas. 
-My friend the honourable member for Paterson makes a point about the increase in the cost of private mail bags. The Telecommunications Commission must realise that it is a community service. It has to face up to this situation. One of the great contributions that we can make is to work to that end. I am totally opposed to forced growth centres. Let us encourage local government, as is happening in my electorate- a magnificent electorate. Local government in my electorate, through its own efforts, has brought secondary industry to the area and I invite honourable members to come to my electorate to see it for themselves. As I have said, I am completely opposed to forced growth centres. By all means, let us have decentralisation if people really want to go to an area to live in it and to develop it. 
I want to comment briefly on the international situation. I have been extremely disturbed in recent months, as I have been for a long period, about what is happening in the international situation. I refer to the do-gooders, to the people who will not face up to the realities of the situation and to the people who apparently go around blindfolded. My time has nearly expired but let me refer to one aspect. We saw on our television screens in Australia a newsreel showing Soviet ships unloading Soviet material with outside assistance, and we saw outside forces engaged in what was said by these left-wing thinkers to be a natural uprising. It was there for us to see with our own eyes, yet we still hear people say that there is no left-wing influence, that there is no communist force, that there is no communist plan. Those of us who have been saying for years that one of these days this country will find itself on the end of a limb have been told that we do not know what we are talking about. Look at what has happened in Angola. The same people who cheer about what is happening in Angola talk about American influence and interference in Vietnam. These people, for their own particularly selfish aims, want to see Australia on the end of a limb, isolated and alone, facing a world with a tremendous red coverage. If these people would only look clearly at the situation. Look at what happened in Timor. Is it not amazing that the Fretilin forces were armed - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. Before I call the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fife)  I would remind honourable members that notwithstanding that the honourable member for Farrer has had a long and meritorious service in the New South Wales Parliament, this will be his maiden speech in the Aus.tralian Parliament. I ask honourable members to extend to him the normal courtesies extended to an honourable member making his maiden speech in this place. 
-That is not a point of order and I think the honourable member knows it. 
That being so, honourable members opposite should go back to their grass roots to try to get financial support. Do not come here squealing and suggesting that people who make donations, big and small- farmers, unionists, workers- to our Party should have their names made public. I ask the honourable member for Port Adelaide: What would happen to the unionists in his electorate, which has those $70,000 homes that he and his colleagues live in, who give donations to my Party, as they are doing? Will there be no coercion if their names are put in a public register? Of course there will be. There Will be the same sort of coercion as was applied to a friend of mine recently when he retired from the Merchant Navy and dared to reply to a letter which was patently absurd, written by a left wing unionist on the waterfront. This man replied to it from his vast experience of the Merchant Navy. What happened? For 3 years that man's roof has been pelted with stones. For 3 years his telephone has rung at odd hours in the morning and when answered there has been nobody at the other end. Time and time again there are phantom knocks at his door and when he opens it there is nobody there. So do not talk to me about coercion. The honourable member's Party is an expert at it, and if people 's names are made pub- he in registers tomorrow, in accordance with the POliCY put forward in desperation and in fear by the Labor Party today, the same sort of coercion will be applied to them. 
There is another matter to which I want to refer tonight. It concerns a constituent of mine.  Mrs Wanda  Piotrowski died on 22 February 1972.  Her  husband,  Mr K.  Piotrowski is the administrator of her estate which was valued at $81,000. The assets comprising the estate were produced by  Mr and Mrs Piotrowski  from a quarrying business operated by them in South Australia. Neither of those 2 migrants brought a penny into this country- not a penny. They worked hard. They were the sort of migrants we need in this country. They worked for the public good and paid a lot of taxation over the years. They were in Australia for 25 years prior to the death of  Mrs Piotrowski. Mr and Mrs Piotrowski  did not have any children. The late  Mrs Piotrowski  has one brother living in Australia and 7 brothers and sisters in Poland. Under the laws governing intestate estates, the husband receives $10,000 and 50 per cent of the residue of the estate after all duties are paid. The remaining 50 per cent is divided equally between the next of kin. This results in this case in a payment of over $ 16,000 to the relatives in Poland. 
I have reason to suppose that  Mr Piotrowski  does not want the result of the lifetime work of his wife and himself to go to their relatives in Poland. The payment of this sum of money to relatives behind the Iron Curtain who have in no way contributed to the earning of it seems to me unjust. Also, if the circumstances were reversed, I feel there would not be any donation in the opposite direction to relations in Australia. I think that goes without saying. There is furthermore no guarantee that the funds will reach the relatives in Poland or that the correct exchange rate will be applied to the transfer. In view of these circumstances I pose a serious question to the Government. If there is an intestate estate should people be forced to pay a high proportion of the proceeds of their property to relations they do not know and with whom they have had nothing to do for 25 years and is it proper for this Government to insist on this happening? I take the view, rightly or wrongly, that if a person has died intestate the Government should not insist on such payments. I am happy to say that the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  will supply me with a considered answer on that matter, but I thought it well worth while bringing the matter before the House because there Will be other issues that will affect honourable members who may face the same sort of instance from time to time. 
-! have received messages from the Senate concurring in the resolutions of the House relating to the appointment of Joint Committees on the Parliamentary Committee System, Foreign Affairs and Defence, the Australian Capital Territory and the New and Permanent Parliament House and agreeing that the resolutions have effect notwithstanding anything contained in the Standing Orders. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the 2 measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
-I have no jurisdiction to ask an honourable member to withdraw a remark made in relation to people outside the House. I call the honourable member for Sturt. 
-If the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  trunks that the commercial stations have nothing better to do with their time than to run a tape recorder listening to the program of 2JJ he does not know very much about commercial radio. They have a lot more important things to do than merely that. I received a very biting criticism of 2JJ, in the early stages of its transmissions, not from commercial radio but from a rather dynamic youth group that was disgusted with some of the things that came over 2JJ. This youth group said that it was not a good advertisement for Australia to have a station that had been sponsored by the Government in such a way putting over the type of program to which the youth group objected. 
Normally, an honourable member who speaks third from his side in a debate on a matter of public importance spends a great deal of time answering some of the comments and criticisms that have been made by honourable members who led in the debate and who presented it to the Parliament because it was of public importance. The speeches of the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  and the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  have put forward positively the Government's policy. I am afraid I feel that the speeches of the 3 honourable gentlemen from the Opposition who have spoken in this debate have not given us any real reason why this matter should have been presented for debate as a matter of public importance. The honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  on occasions gave economic advice to the previous Government, of which he was a supporter. That advice got his Government into difficulties. If it is any criterion, the speech that he made on this subject shows that he knows less about radio and broadcasting than he does about the economics of the country. 
After listening to the speeches that were made by the 3 members of the Opposition who spoke on this matter of public importance I frankly feel that they completely failed to present any reason why this matter should have been presented to the House today. Everything they said was on the basis that something might happen or that the Government is taking an action which the Opposition believes will do something. No concrete evidence was presented of the very thing put forward for discussion, namely: 
The threats to the Australian Broadcasting Commission and ethnic radio. 
Not one of the speeches made justified the words contained in the matter raised for discussion in this chamber this afternoon. I want to make one or two comments in regard to radio and television. There is a need in Australia for our dual system of broadcasting and television. Over many years I have said that commercial radio and commercial television can make a contribution in this sphere in which the ABC sometimes cannot, and in exactly the same way the ABC can make a contribution and is valuable and can do things that commercial radio cannot. I believe that in Australia at the moment we have an ideal situation with our dual broadcasting. There is a place for the Australian Broadcasting Commission and there is a place for commercial radio and television. Surely if one criticises the Australian Broadcasting Commission, as one is entitled to, or criticises commercial radio, that docs not mean to say that it is an endeavour to destroy either one or the other. 
I believe a re-assessment is needed. I think there should be an inquiry. I was delighted to hear the speech of the Minister for Post and Telecommunications this afternoon. I believe there is a need for a re-assessment of the situation. There have been many advances over recent years. There have been many new developments over recent years. There has been an advance in the sphere of technology. Because of this I believe that there is a need for an assessment. Commercial radio and television are facing problems at the present stage. I believe that they need new guidelines from the Government; not an overmuch control by the Government. They need to know what the attitude of the Government is in this particular sphere. Commercial radio and television cannot plan until they know what the Government's policy and attitude are. 
One of the factors in relation to the Australian Broadcasting Commission- this has been mentioned, of course- is the possibility of advertising on the ABC. I should be opposed to that; I think it would be a retrograde step. I feel that if we are to have the value of the ABC in the sphere of television and broadcasting, to retain its independence it should be funded from the Government. But because it is funded from the Government, and because it is taxpayers' money, I believe that the Government should have an oversight of the ABC in the sense that there should be supervision of its expenditure. I believe that in a program the other day, this comment was made: 'This program comes to you by the courtesy of- ' and a certain magazine 's name was mentioned. Does that give an obligation to the ABC to support in some way some of the ideas and thoughts of this magazine? One time when we were in government, if I remember correctly, an item in one of the current affairs programs carried what was a tacit advertisement for an overseas airline. As I say, I think these are things which should be given consideration. 
I think an assessment should also be made of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board. The Control Board was set up many years ago and there has been no alteration in its standing and set-up since it was established. As I have said, I believe that there should also be this assessment there. So I content myself with saying that the case put forward by the Opposition has failed lamentably to present any justification for debating the matter of what it calls 'public importance'. I agree with the comments of the two Ministers that this is a further step in the paranoia one might say, of the Opposition- the honourable member for Maribyrnong used the word. We must continue to criticise the Australian Broadcasting Commission. Is it above criticism? Yet we do criticise the Commission, it surely does not mean that that is evidence of the fact that this Government desires to destroy the 
ABC. The ABC has a place in the spheres of television and radio. I for one would be sorry to see anything happen that would reduce the contribution that that organisation makes. 
Briefly I should like to congratulate very sincerely those who have the task of televising church services. This is an extremely difficult program to televise. I do not mean the sermon that is preached by the minister at the time. But it is a difficult program to televise. I believe that the technicians and the staff who officiate on the program do a particularly good job. I should just like to congratulate them on the manner in which they do this task. I reject completely the arguments of the Opposition. I think it is obvious that the Opposition failed to justify in any way the bringing forward of this matter as a matter of public importance this afternoon. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the 5 measures? There being no objection, I shall allow that course to be followed. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate concerning the 2 measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
-A quorum has been called. Ring the bells. 

 The bells having rung. 

-Order! The honourable member for Hume has now been in the House long enough to know that if he wants to take a point of order he should rise to his feet and take it. Yesterday evening, on 3 occasions, he took points of order without getting to his feet. If the honourable member does not know how to take a point of order properly, he should not take a point of order at all. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the 2 measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
-Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted.  (The document read as follows)- 
-Is the amendment seconded? 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted.  (The document read as follows)- 

<graphic href="098131197603316_43_0.jpg"></graphic>

The Press statement implied that this was something new. For the benefit of honourable members in this House who may not be aware of it, this is not something new. This benefit was introduced in 1968. There definitely has been a withdrawal of a benefit. The reason for the change in 1968 was that it is difficult to cut down expenses of a married couple when one of the spouses dies, particularly in regard to rent and such items. That is the reason why that was given and it seems a very reasonable point. I have dealt with the question of the dependants, as outlined in clause 9, not being included. 
I will deal now with clause 12 of the Bill which concerns the time when the benefits provided for in the Bill will come into effect. Here again we get some of the double-speak which Orwell spoke about and which this Government is using. We heard the Government talking about the indexation of wages, going to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to support wage indexation, and then going to the Commission to try to have the rate of indexation reduced to approximately half the increase in the consumer price index. 
The Minister for Social Security, in an undated statement headed 'Emergency Telephone Interpreter Services in Australia', said that she was most anxious to look at ways and means of improving the efficiency of the service and client help. The Press statement went on to say that as a result it had been decided to replace the manned operation with an answering service. That apparently is the way they improve the efficiency of the service. What a lovely attempt at doublespeakto call something an improvement and to finish up by revealing that something has been abolished. The Minister said that the situation would be closely watched as a result of these new arrangements. She said that she would review the position initially in 4 weeks time to ensure that the service was satisfactory. 
We will never hear any more about this. How can the Government possibly argue that this is an improvement? The whole argument in the Press statement was on the basis that insufficient people were using the service. At least, that was the implication. We got the same sort of doublespeak when the honourable member for Hotham referred to the question of percentage increases. 
He said that he had been told to give an undertaking on behalf of the then caretaker Government that there would be instant and automatic increases in pensions according to the CPI. 
He obviously had some doubt about that policy being introduced because he said that he was pleased to hear the Prime Minister at question time today, in response to a question by the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen),  seem to imply that pensions would increase with the increase in the CPI. My own view is that if the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission had in fact ruled that the last increase in wages under indexation should have been only 3 per cent, 3.2 per cent or whatever figure it picked on, I am sure that this Government would have introduced legislation limiting the increase in social security benefits to the same percentage. 
I wish to raise another point which is relevant though I realise that it could not be dealt with in this legislation. It is relevant to the cost of living for social security payment recipients and it is therefore relevant to the importance of these increases to them. I refer to the question of pensioner treatment now not being available by specialists at outpatient departments in most hospitals in New South Wales and, as I understand it, in many other States. One of the advantages of the Medibank scheme that we introduced was that it was possible for pensioners to have the advantage of a choice of either going to an outpatients department or going to see a specialist privately. We introduced a choice. That choice has now been taken away from pensioners at least in New South Wales by co-operation between the specialists and the New South Wales Government. The Government of New South Wales has closed almost all the outpatients clinics run by specialists because the doctors had refused to man them. 
The importance from the pensioner's point of view is that he now does not have the choice any longer. He has to go and see a specialist privately. He may be perfectly happy to do that. The specialist may have to send him for, let us say, pathology tests, an X-ray, an electrocardiogram or whatever special test may be involved. This would involve another trip and more fares. The report of the test would then go back to the specialist and the pensioner might be referred to a further specialist in a different area. In many areas in Sydney- the situation would probably be worse still in the country- this would involve a fair bit of travelling to get to where the specialist services are available. Previously the pensioner was able to obtain all those services at the public hospital of his choice if he wanted to receive them. In other words he saw the specialist at the outpatients clinic, let us take it at Fairfield District Hospital in my area, and he was then sent on to the pathology department or the X-ray department or whatever was necessary and no more fares were involved. At present all these extra costs are being involved. I think it is an important point to emphasise. 
I mention in passing to the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Newman)  who is sitting at the table that there has been an attempt to save money by restricting car transport for repatriation pensioners attending medical clinics and medical practitioners at those clinics or at hospitals. I have no objection to saving money if it is done reasonably. I hope that the instructions on the provision of car transport will be interpreted fairly leniently because the question of cost of the pensioner is involved. It may be perfectly reasonable for a totally and permanently incapacitated pensioner to travel to the clinic by public transport or by car but the point is that a significant cost is involved. If he is on a pension that is a significant point to him. I hope that the Department of Repatriation will interpret that aspect fairly leniently. I repeat for the benefit of the House that the amendment which we have moved states that we support the Bill but we deplore the failure of the Government to index dependants' allowances to meet increases in the cost of living. We will oppose clause 7 of the amending legislation which deletes a part of the principal Act dealing with funeral benefits. 
-The comments and the remarks of the honourable member for Hunter are rather wide. I would suggest in this particular instance that he should not refer particularly to the subject matter that is before the court. The honourable member for Hunter is not out of order in respect of the other comments he is making. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted.  (The document read as follows)- 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
He said that the situation is tragic. Of course it is tragic! I do not challenge the Minister's feelings but if his feelings are so deep for the individuals concerned I point out that his statement and his answer to a question the other day do nothing to relieve the apprehensions of members of our Lebanese community. The Minister agrees that the situation is not normal. This area has suffered as a result of conflict yet the normal migration criteria will apply. The Minister said: 
This means that those eligible will be spouses, dependent children and aged and dependent parents of Australian residents. Cases outside these criteria will be considered sympathetically on their merits . . . 
What does that mean? I have details of a case that was submitted to the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. I should like the Minister to reconcile his statement tonight and the answer he gave the other day with what has happened. An application was made on behalf of a lady, whose breadwinner was shot in Beirut, and 4 children. They sought permission to join a son and nephew in Australia. An officer of the Department notified my office on 9 March that permission had been refused. He refused permission on the ground that there were no special circumstances to consider in this case. I put this to the Minister: If, for instance, a person has lost his father, if a family has lost its home, or if a woman has lost her husband, does he seriously say that that does not come within the ambit of special circumstances? If that is not the issue or if that is not what is spelt out in the statement, then another statement needs to be made dealing with this as a specific matter. Will the Minister undertake to reverse that decision, and in the future to deal with other applications, including applications that are there at present, with a little more compassion? I hope that I am not boring the Minister - 
What does the Minister mean when he refers to 'a formal refugee situation'? It is hypocrisy. The formal refugee situation was a quasi-war refugee situation, and that has not changed. It means that a large ethnic community in this country must wait until this Government finds some magical formula before it is able to assist friends, relatives and countrymen in an extraordinary and extremely tragic situation. I do not think this statement goes anywhere near far enough. It certainly does not clarify the matter. The Minister says in his statement that before the staff of the Embassy left Beirut they put a notification in the Press advising people to go to Athens and other places. I think he refers to Cyprus, Israel, Turkey and in particular Damascus. I wonder whether we have asked the Syrian authorities whether we can carry out that sort of operation in Damascus. We have sent people into other countries in the past and they have run into serious trouble with the governments concerned. The Minister ought to clarify whether in fact that has been done; whether we will receive co-operation from the Syrian authorities; and whether that has been tidied up. 
The Government also is asking these people to go long distances. Is it spelling out exactly what is meant by that? Are people to be attracted to the various areas to which I have referred, only to find that their applications are refused? Will they be refused because of the strait-jacket nature of the criteria which the Government is using at present and which do not meet the problem and the examples which I have put to the Minister? I believe that that advertisement may do more damage than enough. I put it to the Minister sincerely that the House is entitled to know just what the arrangements are. The people in this country who have relatives there ought to know, and it should not be the type of vague, general statement that has been made here this evening. 
In summary,  Mr Speaker,  the fact is that the criteria for entry have not changed. The situation is tragic- there is no doubt about that- but everything is normal. The criteria are normal. This statement goes no way towards satisfying the apprehensions of the Lebanese people concerned. I think it is a political trick, an attempt by the Government and the Minister to pretend that they are doing something that they really are not doing. I charge the Minister with the responsibility of clarifying the statement and going to the point of answering the question concerning the example that I gave. The Lebanese people who have relatives in this country and the relatives of those people, who are living under tragic circumstances in Lebanon, need a better explanation. They need special circumstances and special criteria to deal with a very serious problem. It is the height of hypocrisy to put out a statement that does not change the existing situation. Given the fact that the Minister accepts that it is a tragic situation, I think there is a deeper responsibility to the Lebanese people here and to their relatives in Lebanon. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I preface my question by saying that I accept the value of the agencies within the United Nations, but in my opinion the latest action of the United Nations Security Council in its condemnation of aggression on behalf of South Africa and the request that compensation be paid proves that this organisation is a complete farce. In my opinion it is no longer of any value - 
-Order! The honourable member for Oxley will resume his seat. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted.  (The document read as follows)- 

<graphic href="098131197604064_37_0.jpg"></graphic>

<para pgwide="yes">NOTES- ( 1) The capital values of benefits under the present scheme for existing pensioners and existing pension scheme contributors include the cost for updating, in July each year, the Government share of pensions being paid by a percentage that is 1.4 times the percentage increase in the Consumer Price Index (March quarter to March quarter) or the percentage increase in Average Weekly Earnings over the same period, whichever is the lesser. For the purpose of the calculations it has been taken that, on the basis of the assumed 3.9 per cent per annum increase in the Consumer Price Index and 5.5 per cent per annum increase in general salary levels referred to in paragraph 1 12, the increase in Average Weekly Earnings would never be less than 1 .4 times the increase in the Consumer Price Index. 
In the case of existing pensioners, 1.0 times Consumer Price Index increase on the total pension and, in the case of pensions payable under the new scheme, 1 .0 times Consumer Price Index increase on the Government-financed pension. 
The additional capital values shown as items (a) to (j) above apply only if they are introduced in the order shown. If a different order is used, the compounding effect of the introduction of new benefits would cause variations in the individual amounts of additional capital value, although the total would remain unchanged. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted.  (The document read as follows)- 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted.  ( The document read as follows)- 

<graphic href="098131197604086_65_2.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="098131197604086_65_3.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="098131197604086_66_4.jpg"></graphic>

-In the sense that at the moment the honourable member for Hunter is referring to a speech which he made in this House last Thursday and to a matter which had been published relating to the remarks of the honourable member for Hunter, and considering also that the honourable member for Hunter raised the matter as a point of privilege in this House, and a decision was given, I suggest that at this moment the honourable member for Hunter is in order. However I might say to the honourable member for Hunter, as I said the other evening when he was making his speech, I should expect that from his experience he will not transgress the Standing Orders. 
That the question be now put. 
That the honourable member for Hunter be granted an extension of time. 
<para class="block" pgwide="yes">House. It being 1 1 p.m. the House stands ad- addressed to each member of the House, fix journed until Tuesday, 27 April at 2. 15 p.m. un- earlier day of meeting. less  Mr Speaker  shall, by telegram or letter House adjourned at 11p.m. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted.  (The document read as follows)- 
ROYAL MINISTRY FOR FOREIGN AFFAIRS 
Information Service 
June, 1972 
For free publication or background use 
Memorandum, May 23, 1972, from the 1971 Committee to investigate support for political parties: 
PUBLIC SUPPORT FOR POLITICAL PARTIES IN SWEDEN 
In Sweden, political parties are provided with various forms of support from public funds. In 1965, parliament established an arrangement for providing national support for political parties which took effect starting in 1966. Present regulations provide for national support to parties that participated in the most recent parliamentary election and succeeded in winning seats. Annually, this support amounts to 70 000 SKr per seat. In order to participate in the distribution of parliament seats, the general rule is that a party must have received at least 4 per cent of all votes cast throughout the country (exactly 4 per cent of the votes cast entitles the party in question to 14 seats in parliament). However, parties receiving fewer votes are permitted to participate in the distribution of seats in constituencies where the party has captured at least 12 percent of the votes. 
Each political party represented in parliament employs a special full-time staff that is placed at the disposal of the party's parliamentary group. The chief tasks of such a staff are to provide the members of its parliamentary group with investigative and secretarial services and to maintain contact with the general public, national and municipal authorities, trade unions and other influential organisations. Starting in 1966, national funds were provided to defray party outlays for these parliamentary group staffs. Today, this staff support amounts to 3500 SKr annually for each seat held by the party or parties in power, and 5250 SKr for the opposition party or parties. The reason for the difference is that those in the opposition parties work under conditions different from those prevailing in the party or parties in power. During the 1971-72 fiscal year, 24.5 million SKr was allocated for national Support for political parties and somewhat more than 1 .5 million for staff support. 
Sweden is divided into primary municipalities (cities and towns) and secondary municipalities (roughly equivalent to counties or provinces). In 1969 a special law was passed enabling primary and secondary municipalities to provide economic support for political parties which, during the period covered by such support, are represented in the municipal governing bodies. This law states that such municipal support for political parties shall consist of an equal amount for each seat in the municipal governing body held by the various parties during the period in question. By 1971, this type of support had been introduced in about nine-tenths of the more than 450 primary municipalities in Sweden and in all 24 secondary municipalities. During 1971 about 40m SKr were allocated for municipal support for political parties. The support given to political parties by the national and municipal governments thus totalled about 66m SKr during 1971. 
In addition to the above forms of support, certain contributions from public funds are made to the young people's and student associations run by the various political parties and, during election years, to defray ballot costs. 
In June of 1971, a national governmental committee was established and given the task of investigating the support given to the political parties by the national and municipal governments. Members of this committee included representatives of all 5 parties holding seats in parliament: the Conservatives, the Center Party, the Liberals, the Social Democrats, and the Communists. This investigation was based on the principles presented below. Among these, items (a) through (d) were included in the directives issued to the committee; all of these 4 items already applied to the support being given to political parties by the national and municipal governments. 
Support should be given only to parties which have significant support among the voters, as evidenced in general elections. 
Support should be calculated in accordance with a certain plan, and should be allocated in accordance with fixed rules that eliminate the possibility of preferential treatment. 
The amounts of support should be related to the relative strengths of the parties 
There should be no public control over how this support is used. 
Efforts should be made to provide maximum possible unity with regard to the scope and structuring of the various types of support. 
On April 7, 1972, the committee decided unanimously to submit a proposal containing the following main points: 
. National support for political parties- for the most part unchanged since its introduction in 1966- shall be increased from 70 000 SKr annually per seat to 85 000. 
Staff support now provided by the national government shall be supplemented by a basic support amounting to 1.5m SKr annually to each political party represented in parliament that has captured 4 per cent of the votes cast in the latest election. In other respects, staff support shall remain unchanged. 
National support shall be provided for political parties not represented in parliament on the basis of the percentage of votes captured by the party in question in the most recent election. For each tenth of 1 per cent above 2.5 per cent, the party in question shall receive 85 000 SKr (this amount is known as a mandate support unit). 
Parties that are represented in parliament under the 12 per cent rule, but did not capture as much as 4 per cent of the votes, shall receive the support described in points 1 and 3 above, although they shall not receive more than 14 mandate support units. With regard to staff SUPport, such parties shall receive, (a) support per parliament seat held and (b) as many fourteenths of the basic support as they have seats in parliament. 
When a party gains or loses seats in an election, the consequent change in support amounts will be gradual, not abrupt, in order to facilitate activity planning within the parties and ensure employee security. 
As a consequence of the changes proposed with regard to national support for political parties, the structuring of the support provided by primary and secondary municipal governments shall remain unchanged. 
The new rules regarding national party and staff SUPport for political parties shall take effect on 1 July, 1972. 
The present support for political parties and their parliamentary full-time staffs is paid in accordance with various rules. Partly for administrative reasons, it is proposed that all forms of support from public funds be paid directly to the national organisations of the parties, unless the party concerned decides otherwise. 
The above rules are to apply also during the coming assembly-period ( 1974 through 1976) regardless of the results of the 1973 elections. 
In practice, the party support initiated in 1966 has remained unchanged since then. The committee expresses the desire that the sums paid for national party and staff support should be reviewed at shorter intervals, it being assumed that the relations between the amounts would remain unchanged. 
In accordance with the directives, the question of the importance of the press in the formation of public opinion has been discussed by the committee. Since a bill regarding press support was submitted, the committee has assumed that the press question will be dealt with when parliament handles this bill and motions arising out of it. 
The proposals made by the committee conducting this investigation entail an increase in national party and staff support for political parties amounting to 12.75m SKr annually. This will bring the amount of support provided by the national government to about 39m SKr. Together with the municipal support for political parties amounting to 40m SKr this will provide support for political parties from both national and municipal governments that totals about 80m SKr annually. The principles of municipal self-government that prevail in Sweden require that the municipal support for political parties be undertaken voluntarily. As a result, the question of the scope of municipal support for political parties was not taken up by the committee. 
The proposal of the committee has been sympathetically received in parliament as well as by the press. A bill on the basis of the proposal will be submitted to the fall session of parliament. 
Carl-Einar Nordling Secretary of the 197 1 Committee to investigate support for political parties c/o Kungl. Bankinspektionen, Drottninggatan 50-52, Box 40024, Stockholm 40 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted.  (The document read as follows)- 

<graphic href="098131197604086_16_0.jpg"></graphic>

The consequences of the parties being ill-equipped to fulfil their necessary functions can easily be identified although it is difficult to measure them precisely. What can be asserted is that in large part it is not the members of political parties but the general public which suffers when they are not able to perform their role satisfactorily. The most immediate effect is that the parties cannot afford to employ sufficient staff and those who are on party payrolls tend to be underpaid, overworked and, with numerous individual exceptions, of poor calibre. Political parties which win power at general elections or in elections for county or district councils tend to take office with ill-thought out programs because their research  capacity has not been sufficient to enable them to be properly prepared. The cost is seen in avoidable mistakes made by Ministers of every incoming government and inevitably in the fact that many Ministers are more dependent than they should be on civil servants for advice on policy decisions. 
That is an observation he made in Europe and it could well be applied here. Yesterday I gave evidence before the Remuneration Tribunal on the question of staff facilities made available to shadow Ministers. The present system in this Parliament is to ensure that nothing upsets the  status quo.  How does a shadow Minister with no staff at all available to him, apart from the research staff of the Parliamentary Library, which I respect and for which I am very grateful, and a couple of stenographers shared amongst all of us on this side of the House, compete with a Minister with the back-up of thousands of public servants and a great number of personal staff? What we read into the examples set by the Swedes and some other countries is that they are not tying strings to this state political aid. In Sweden there is no preference for any political party, although the Social Democrats have been in power for more than 35 years. The legislation enacted by the Swedish Parliament gave no special benefits to the Social Democrats. It applied equally to all political parties, on the basis of their percentage vote at the previous 2 elections. It does not tie strings to the donations made to the political parties. So, all the parties in Sweden now have back-up staff for Ministers, shadow Ministers and members of parliament paid for out of the subsidy given to them by the state. 
I ask honourable members opposite to analyse what that would mean in Australian parliaments; what it would mean first of all, to get down the limit of expenditure on campaign. We could have some rational political campaigning in Australia and get away from the humbug into which we are being dragged now. We should look at the lessons to be learnt from the political mistakes made in the United States in the Watergate affair, which always comes up in debates of this nature. Let us look to the future. Honourable members opposite might be critical of the amounts of money provided for in this Bill. If the amounts are inadequate, they should say so and seek to have them increased. I ask them not to reject the Bill out of hand merely because they believe that the amount of $3,250 should be $4,000 and not to reject it out of hand because they think that the state should not give money to political parties. That is happening all round the world. I ask honourable members opposite to note the countries that are subsidising political parties: Finland started in 1966, Norway in 1970, Sweden in 1965, Denmark in 1969, Quebec in 1963, West Germany in 1959, Austria in 1961, Italy in 1974 and Puerto Rico in 1957. Why should Australia wait to be last? 
The honourable member for Holt  (Mr Yates)  has a grin on his face. Even now the House of Commons is awaiting a report from a committee set up by it to investigate the question of political funding. In the  New Statesman  of 12 March 1 976 it was reported that there can be no doubt that the report of that committee will be unanimous on the point that the public purse ought to be made available to a certain extent for all the political parties in Great Britain. So we can see what is happening in that country. We should not wait to be last; nor should we wait until something like Watergate happens in our country. What happened immediately after Watergate? Everyone went round looking for skeletons in the cupboards of every politician in the United States. Everyone was suspected of being involved in one way or another in the raising of funds for the Nixon campaign. Honourable members know what has happened in relation to political funding in the United States. In 1960 campaigns by the presidential candidates cost approximately $22m. In 1972 that amount had risen to $ 145m. If parliaments do not take action sooner or later, there will be no ceiling on campaign spending. All we will do is spread the time of the campaign from 3 weeks to 4 weeks and from 4 weeks to 5 weeks, and beneficiaries of that will not be the Australian public. 
The Opposition is not putting forward a sophisticated case as to why people ought to vote for the Liberal Party or the Labor Party. We all saw the advertisements in the late 1950s and early 1960s by the Democratic Labor Party. They set the pace for what has now become the standard of political advertising. One would have to be an absolute moron to sit at home and watch the political advertising on television. Everything comes over in 15 seconds or 30 seconds. We supposedly are lifting our educational processes to a world standard, but we are asking people to make some of the most important decisions made in this country on the basis of a 30-second message on Channel 9. At least the Australian Broadcasting Commission, with the free time made available to the political parties, makes the parties say something substantial. Nothing can be said in 30 seconds, 60 seconds or 120 seconds; but something substantial can be said in 5 minutes. It may be that this Parliament should look also at the media laws affecting political campaigning. As politicians, why should we run away from our responsibility to ensure that people have all the facts before them before putting their ballot papers in the ballot box? 
All the things of which I speak would assist greatly in increasing the awareness of the Australian electors and building a system which would be beyond suspicion. Not only are other countries moving to subsidise political parties, but nearly all of them are making political donors sign a public register so that everybody can see who makes political donations. There have been debates in this place during the past few weeks about donations that were made to the Liberal Party in 1951. That sort of thing would become irrelevant if we introduced these laws in Australia. Of course, members of the Liberal Party and the National Country Party said that those allegations were not true, and perhaps the Labor Party cannot prove them. Everybody in Australia believes that the major companies in this country contribute regularly, at every election, to the conservative forces; and, until such time as a register is made available for everybody in this country to look at, people will go on believing it. Not only do people believe that; they also believe that there must be some benefit to the companies in making those donations. We do not have a responsibility to the companies and the trade unions. The trade union movement is the only body in this country which makes its political donations public. The balance sheets of the unions show every donation that is made and every levy which is struck and whose proceeds might go to the Australian Labor Party or to any other political party that is to their liking. 
Other countries are moving to block the loopholes. Look at the limits that have been imposed in the United States. That country has moved to ensure that the escalation in the cost of presidential candidates' campaigns from $22m in 1 960 to $ 1 45m in 1 972 is stopped. It is moving to ensure that the major donations of people who have contributed hundreds of thousands of dollars out of their own pockets are stopped. The important people in American politics from now on will be those who can raise the $1,000 donation, which is the ceiling donation. As one American fund raiser has said, instead of having to eat and booze with the big donor, now the fund raisers have to go and talk with a lot of people. The campaigns will not run for 6 months; they will be running all the time. Ted Heath said, when opposing state subsidies to political parties, that it would be an anaesthetic to local organisation. I put forward the opposite point of view. Political parties might have to do much more work. We may be able to discourage the large donors in Australia, as has been done in the 
United States, in such a way that we all will have to do more back at the grass roots level of politics. 
That would be a good thing because in the social scale of Australian society politicians and parliaments are right down at the bottom. It is about time that parliaments and politicians made a stand on these questions, and this is one way in which we could do that. We could lift ourselves out of the murk into which we have got ourselves through continuing with these laws. The Government Parties think that great benefit is to be gained from continuing with these laws, but I ask them to consider seriously what I am putting. If they think that the provisions of this Bill are inadequate or if they have other ideas that they believe ought to be included in amending legislation, then by all means let us set up a committee and look at them. I can assure honourable members of one thing: If we set up a joint parliamentary committee there is no doubt about what the recommendation of that committee will be. Australia will fall into line with every other country. 
With a subsidy from the state, we would discourage to the nth degree the people who have been making large political donations. Of course companies must bodgie their books. The large companies in Australia that make political donations never show those donations in their balance sheets. How does the money get out of the company into the funds of the political parties? 
-Is the motion seconded? 
I think that the speech just made by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  at this given time was a most interesting one. One might almost say: 'I think he protesteth too much'. I think that perhaps the major reason why he is protesting at this given time is the event that is going to take place in New South Wales on 1 May when the people of that State will be going to the ballot box to cast their votes for a State government. 
As the honourable member for Riverina has said, it is to be a secret vote that they will be able to cast at the ballot box. If one reads the comments of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition one will find in them, as my colleague the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  has pointed out, what I think is most dangerous thinking. It is something to which everyone in Australia should give consideration. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition spoke about defending democracy. As I have said, I believe that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition came into the chamber at the stage at which he did and protested against the charge that had been laid against him by my colleague the honourable member for St George because of the election that is coming up in New South Wales on Saturday. The people of New South Wales should give consideration to this matter. The words to which the honourable member for St George referred were spoken not just by a member of the Australian Labor Party; they were spoken by a person who holds a responsible position in it- the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. They are beyond any shadow of doubt a call to naked dictatorship. What words were used? The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition said: 
What we should have done was to show our muscle and our might. 
The comments that the Deputy Leader of the Opposition made tonight about multi-national companies and all the other things were of the same nature as the comments that were made in relation to the double dissolution last year when charges were laid against the then Opposition, the Senate and His Excellency the GovernorGeneral. But there has not been one comment by members of the present Opposition about their behaviour and their reaction in relation to the things that caused the Senate to take the action that it took in November of last year. This is what the people in New South Wales must give earnest consideration to because the State Labor Party in New South Wales is tarred with the same brush as is the present Leader of the Opposition and the Australian Labor Party. Let me say this to the Deputy Leader of the Opposition: In saying that the multi-nationals and the people outside this country are seeking to control and dictate to this country he should bear in mind what has happened in New South Wales in the last few weeks. 
Many of the militant unions, the communistcontrolled unions in New South Wales which want to disrupt the State of New South Wales, its industry and the progress of that State, have been told to keep quiet until after 1 May. We know that this sort of thing has happened. I mention men like Halfpenny and Carmichael. These men are doing everything they can to destroy the progress and development of this country, but at the moment they are not saying or doing as much as they have said or done in the past because they know that the people of New South Wales are going to put back into power in New South Wales a Liberal-Country Party government and keep out of power these socialistic people who are working only for the destruction of this country. 
Let me say one other thing. There was a lot of talk today about double taxation. Why is it that  Mr Wran  and the people of New South Wales are opposing the new policy of the LiberalCountry Party Federal Government? The reason is that it will be a handicap to them in their endeavour to achieve centralised socialist control because this policy is a danger to  Mr Wran,  who like all Labor people wants to get centralised control in Canberra. He knows that if this new federalism policy of ours is accepted and becomes successful, as we know it will be, it will stop the ALP from having any possibility of achieving centralised socialist control in Canberra. Local government supports our policy because it sees it as an answer to many of its problems. It has been put forward by the Prime Minister of a Liberal-National Country Party Government. They know that it will contribute in this country to the progress and development which ceased in the 3 years that the Labor Parry was in office.That is why we hear statements such as the one made by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. That is why we have this attack by  Mr Wran.  That is why a lot of misleading statements have been made by him in recent days in regard to what this proposal will actually mean. That is the reason that many militant unions in New South Wales have been told to hold off until after Saturday's election- to help the Labor Party in the election in New South Wales. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, in supporting your ruling I think that I should raise 3 points. Firstly, there may be some substance in what the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  said about an honourable member being prevented from speaking in this House. But it is within the discretion of the Chair to consider the possibility of a subject matter being debated. In fairness I must say that notice was given on 8 April of the matter under discussion.  Sir, I  believe that that date justifies your ruling in this instance. 
The second point I wish to make is that the matter which the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  has raised is a matter of privilege. As it is a serious matter of privilege I believe that an opportunity should be given for it to be debated in this House, but I think that it would be detrimental to discuss during a general grievance day debate the subject matter that the honourable member has brought forward. 
The third point I want to raise is the one that was mentioned by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard),  who said that it was the honourable member for Hunter himself who had placed the matter on the general business paper.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  for those 3 reasons I support your ruling. In the circumstances I believe it is a correct one. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the 3 measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
-The honourable member has said that he spoke to the Opposition spokesman in charge of this Bill. I accept what the honourable gentleman has said and I take it that it is agreed that the matter be incorporated.  (The document read as follows)- 
Apples 
The adjustment which has already taken place in the industry has resulted in a substantial reduction in exports. The anticipated 'off' production year in 1976 will further reduce supplies for that year. Preliminary estimates  sugges that 1976 apple exports will be from 3m to 3.5m boxes (compared with about 4.6m boxes in 197S). On this basis, it is expected that 2m to 2.5m boxes of apples may be available for shipment at risk and, therefore, eligible for inclusion in the stabilisation arrangements if the scheme were to be extended unchanged. The Commission will recommend that price support be available at a maximum of $2 per box for 1976 and SI per box for 1977 and that a limit of 2m boxes per year be placed on shipments eligible for support in both years. As mentioned previously, support at these levels is intended to avoid hindering the adjustment which is currently taking place in the apple industry. Because 1977 is an 'on' production year in Australia and an 'off' year in Europe the consequent price and supply differentials should help compensate for the difference in the subsidies recommended in the two years. 
Shipments of apples to North America were previously included in the stabilisation scheme, but only small quantities were involved. The Commission is aware of optimism within the industry regarding future apple exports to North America. The Commission believes, however, that new markets should be developed on an unsubsidised basis, as is the case with South East Asian and Middle Eastern markets. It will, therefore, recommend that apples exported to North America be not eligible for assistance under the proposed extension of the scheme and that the temporary assistance involved be limited to at risk apple shipments to Europe (including Britain). 
The Government gave a pledge prior to the election that it would put into effect the report of the Industries Assistance Commission and to some extent perhaps bound itself, I would like to have seen greater assistance to the fruit industry both in the amount allocated per box and in the quantity of fruit to be covered. Secondly, I join the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  and the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  in criticising the fact that stabilisation was not to be made available in respect to developing markets. At a time when this industry is crying out for developing markets, at a time when this industry is fighting for its survival, I respectfully submit that it is insanity to say that we will not support that industry to find new markets. To restrict stabilisation to zones A and B when in the past it has been made available to all at risk markets, in my opinion is a decision which is not based on logic and which cannot be substantiated by fact. It is extremely significant that the LAC in its report did not give any reasons for this decision. Honourable members, when they read the section which has been incorporated in  Hansard,  will note the fact to which I have drawn attention, namely, that the LAC simply made a bald statement that developing markets should not be the subject of stabilisation. Quite frankly, I cannot understand the decision. I think it is a very negative decision. 
I regret very much that it took until 27 February this year for the Government to make an announcement on whether it accepted the IAC recommendations. I regret also that at the same time it announced to the fruit industry of Australia that it could not extend, as we had requested the Government to extend, the assistance to be given to the industry. I draw attention again to the fact that there is not a single member of the Opposition in this House while the future of the apple and pear industry in this country is being debated. I just cannot understand this. There is not a single member of the Labor Party in the House of Representatives at this moment. I just cannot believe it. If honourable members opposite are not interested in the fruit industry, surely they want to represent the people who voted for them on 13 December- the few people in Australia who supported them. I find it very difficult because I came under attack before the suspension of the sitting tonight and I wanted to reply to the allegations of the honourable member for Blaxland. He is not now in the chamber. There is not a single member of the Labor Party here even now. They are not only not here but they are not listening in on their little boxes. They just are not interested. I think the people of Australia, particularly the people of Tasmania, should realise that this is symptomatic of the Labor Party's attitude to rural industry. It just does not give a damn. As far as I am concerned, even though I represent a metropolitan electorate I, together with all other Tasmanian Liberal members of the House of Representatives, who are present in the chamber, am concerned with the fruit industry. There are others in this chamber also concerned with the future of the fruit industry. We are going to carry the fight. A member of the Opposition has now come into the chamber. I am glad that at least one member of the Opposition has been prepared to come into the chamber and, hopefully, to add a contribution to the debate. I am nearly out of time. May I just say that in future decisions on government assistance for the fruit industry must be made early and not late. They must be generous and confident and not small and miserly. In this situation I appeal that future decisions in respect of stabilisation be made at the very latest by the end of October so that the growers can plan forward. I ask for the assistance to be meaningful to give the industry hope and confidence. I regard the tree-pull scheme as a monumental disaster. We should forget the tree-pull scheme and look to the future. We should endeavour to give the fruit industry an opportunity to grow and get back to the position it was once in. 
Last but not least, I repeat that when you see an industry decimated with loss of production of over 40 per cent, loss of acreage of over 40 per cent and loss of orchardists of over 40 per cent, it is time for firm, positive government action. I hope we never again see the criminal neglect that we have seen from governments, Federal and State, Liberal and Labor, over the last 10 years. I support the Bill. I wish that it contained more support for the industry. It is too little too late, but at least it is something, and let us build on it in years to come. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted.  ( The document read as follows)- 
-Does the honourable member for Parramatta claim to have been misrepresented? 

 Mr ARMITAGE (Chifley)-I claim to have been misrepresented. The honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  has suggested that I have misrepresented him. I did not do so under any circumstances. I said that there had been rumours which I found it really impossible to believe. I did not believe them. Nevertheless these rumours have been floating about. I was not making any direct imputation against the honourable member. 
-The time allocated for precedence to General Business has expired. 
-I would like to comment on the remarks of the Treasurer. Although I have sat in this Chair over a period of more than 20 years, I never cease to be amazed at some of the phraseology that is capable of being used in Bills and in speeches. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hurford)  adjourned. 
-Is leave granted? 
-The question now is: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the honourable member for Mackellar speaking without interruption for a period not exceeding 15 minutes. 
Question put 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
The report of the previous Committee deals with the problems generated by land use pressures and conflicts in attractive areas near major cities. Australian metropolitan areas have extensive tracts of recreational land within accessible distance. There is frequently a conflict of interest between such land uses as residential and industrial development, tourism, recreation and water catchments. Since a large proportion of our population lives in the large metropolitan areas, the solutions to the land use problems that inevitably occur are not really local in character, but rather are of major national significance. The previous Committee believed that there is little evidence that the State governments have the resources to handle the problems, despite the interest shown by them. 
The Committee selected the Dandenong Ranges and the Mount Macedon region in Victoria as case studies. The major reason for selecting those areas was that in a national context the Dandenongs, being close to Melbourne, are probably suffering from development pressures more than is any other comparable area and that the Macedon Range, which is situated on the other side of the same city but at a greater distance, will encounter the same pressures as Melbourne grows. The report contains 30 recommendations dealing in the main with increased Commonwealth-State involvement and cooperation in the area of land use planning and the need for large inputs of Commonwealth funds. I again stress that the views expressed in the report do not necessarily reflect the attitudes of the present Committee. 
There are 2 final points that I wish to make: Firstly, I would like to thank the members of the previous Committee for the contributions made- in particular,  Mr Lamb, Mr Jarman  and  Mr Morris,  who were members of the Subcommittee which conducted the inquiry. Secondly, on behalf of the Committee I would like to thank  Mrs Lyn  Simons, who, as Secretary of the Sub-Committee, provided invaluable assistance to the inquiry. I commend the report to the House. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
Strengthening and deepening the bonds between Australia and Japan is one of this Government's foremost policy objectives. It is no accident that one of my first international visits- the first planned visit other than my visit to New Zealand- is to Japan and China. It is no accident that the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  went to Japan very early this year to convey our view of the way in which relationships between Japan and Australia ought to develop. I believe we have already seen some advantages from that visit. Over the past 20 years economic relations between our 2 countries have expanded in magnitude and importance. Japan has become Australia's largest trading partner. Australia is second only to the United States as an importer of Japanese goods. In the trade area, Liberal and National Country Party governments have long sought to extend Australia's relations with Japan. In 1957 we took the major step of signing the Agreement of Commerce with Japan. Unfortunately that Agreement was not fully supported by all members of this House at the time. This 
Agreement was of mutual value to the 2 countries, and it contributed to the present extent of Australian-Japanse trade and to goodwill between both nations. 
In 1971 we established the Australia- Japan Ministerial Committee in recognition of the fundamental importance of economic relations between our countries. But trade relations, no matter how important and meaningful, are not and cannot be the totality of countries contacts with one another. In the case of Japan and Australia, a mutually profitable basis of economic exchange makes it even more important that there be an understanding by the 2 countries- an understanding of their peoples, their language, their culture and their traditions. 
In furtherance of the objective of greater understanding, this Government re-introduced into Parliament the Bill to establish the Australia-Japan Foundation. The Foundation will promote the study by Australians and Japanese of the language, culture, social, economic and political institutions of one another's countries. It will enrich Australian- Japanese relations, both by the understanding that knowledge can bring and, no less importantly, by the personal contacts between Australians and Japanese that the Foundation's work makes possible. 
The possibility of a broad treaty between Japan and Australia has a long history, being raised first in the 1950s and raised again in the 1970s. It was discussed at the first meeting of the Australia- Japan Ministerial Committee in 1 972. The Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence reported in favour of a treaty framework in 1973. Later that year the then. Prime Minister proposed that negotiations for a treaty should begin. The present Government's commitment to conclude successfully the Treaty of Friendship and Co-operation and Prime Minister Miki's desire that it should be concluded, gave new impetus to negotiations which had been delayed during 1975. The result was today's outcome. 
As the draft of the Treaty is still confidential and formally subject to consideration and approval by the 2 governments- I emphasise the words 'formally subject to consideration and approval'- it would not be appropriate for me at this stage to discuss it at length. The Treaty of Friendship and Co-operation is broad-ranging and covers virtually the whole relationship between Australia and Japan. It is designed to be an umbrella under which further agreements may be made and relations developed in specificareas. It accords significant reciprocal benefits. 
The treaty will be a major step forward in our relations with Japan. It will set the stage for a new and even more cordial era in our dealings with the country which, in a generation, has become our main trading partner, and a cornerstone of stability in the region of which Australia is a part. 
In the treaty the governments and the peoples of Australia and Japan have fashioned an instrument designed to help close those gaps in understanding which remain and to bring new progress and confidence in areas where friendship and co-operation are already established. It will lead to a relationship of greater intimacy. But the significance of the treaty lies not only in our relations with Japan. The great understanding and closer ties between the 2 countries on a wide range of fronts which the treaty makes possible will not only be of great mutual benefit; it will also benefit the countries of the west Pacific and strengthen forces for peace and security in the Asia-Pacific region. 
In conclusion, I place on record the strong spirit of mutual accommodation which has made the treaty possible. That spirit augurs well for the century of the Pacific on which we, Japan and our neighbours are now embarking. I also pay tribute to the officials of both countries who have helped the governments of both countries bring this to a successful situation. I present the following paper: 
Treaty of Friendship and Co-operation Between Australia and Japan- Ministerial Statement, 6 May 1976. 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Scholes)  adjourned. 
-The motion actually before the Chair is that notice No. 3 be postponed until the next day of sitting. Out of courtesy I allowed the Leader of the House and the honourable member leading for the Opposition to make comments which were outside the motion before the Chair. I feel that as I have allowed that, and as somebody from each side has spoken, the matter should rest there. Any debate on this matter should be at the actual time when the motion itself is moved at the next sitting. The question is that: 
Notice No. 3, Government Business, be postponed until the next day of sitting. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted.  (The document read as follows)- 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering both measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
-Order! The honourable member for Oxley has used the Mathews Committee as an illustration. He should not develop his speech in the Committee stages on this Bill along that line. 
-I take it that the honourable member has moved his amendment to clause 11? 
In proposed new section 82KBA ( 1 ) (b) omit 'or a person who was the spouse of the taxpayer at that time, '. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

<graphic href="099131197605204_15_0.jpg"></graphic>

It is worth noting that it is time this Government came up with a policy in respect of what it proposes to do about ship building. At the time tenders were called NQEA employed 440 people of whom about 100 worked in the shipyard. The decision of the Labor Government would have meant that approximately 150 more people could have been employed. The NQEA tender would have been accepted but for the Liberal and National Country Parties holding up the Budget in the Senate. This action by the then Opposition has meant that working men in Cairns will not be given the opportunity of being employed in a decentralised industry on the construction of a 50-metre ship which will cost between $4m and $5m 
Navigational aid vessels are required for the building, maintenance and servicing of the 334 marine navigational aids that are strategically placed around the 12 000 miles of Australian coastline. The uninterrupted operation of these aids is essential for the safety of coastal and overseas shipping. The Australian Government has an international obligation to provide and maintain first class navigational aids on her coast for the purpose of safety at sea. This ship would have replaced the  M. V. Wallack  which surveyors had reported was approaching the end of its working life. In actual fact it has now ended its working life. Accommodation on the ship was of a very poor standard. 
When this information was put in front of our Government we acted on it and we proceeded to call tenders in 1973 to replace this ship. In 1974 the contract would have been given to Walkers Ltd shipyard in Maryborough. Unfortunately that shipyard was not prepared to accept the contract, together with contracts for 2 other landing craft heavy ships that the Department of Defence had decided to have built. The work would have been worth a total of about $8.25m. I repeat that unfortunately the shipyard was not prepared to proceed with the building of these ships. Even though the shipyard had some $8.25m worth of work the company closed the shipyard. Therefore fresh tenders had to be called, and we did this in September 1974. As I informed the House earlier, a Scottish shipyard was the lowest tenderer. NQEA was the lowest Australian tenderer, and we decided to place the contract with that company. Unfortunately we could not do so until such time as the Budget was approved. I repeat that the Budget was held up by the Liberal and Country Parties. 
The Department of Transport was then forced into the position of replacing the vessel. It purchased one from Australian Shipbuilding Industries (WA) Pty Ltd of Perth to use as a stop-gap. The ship that was acquired cannot do the job as effectively as the one to which I have referred that should now be under construction by NQEA. The ship acquired cannot carry out all of the tasks required of it in north Queensland waters, such as buoy lifting and construction of navigational aids. I was not aware of what had happened. The decision had been made and money had been allocated in the Budget for the building of this ship. Some $2. 75m had been allocated in that year's financial statement. I made inquiries of the Department of Transport some two to three weeks ago. I wanted to know the comparison between the program approved by the former Government and the cuts that had been instituted by the Fraser Government. I wanted to know what work was being deleted from the transport field. On 18 May I finally received a letter from the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon).  I was astounded to find in that letter this statement: 
The major items in this category of the program were almost $5m for a new navigational aids vessel; about $0.6m for work on the various 'Cape' class vessels; 
The Cape class vessels are the other navigational aid vessels that are at present operating on the Australian coast. Notwithstanding our international requirements and this Government's responsibility to provide first class navigational aids around the Australian coast; notwithstanding the fact that the Department obviously has told its Minister that the replacement ship that was acquired late last year- because of the delay in the building of the new navigational aid shipwas not able to carry out all these requirements and do the work that the ship would be required to do, this Government has decided to delete from this year's program the building of this ship which, from reports given to me, was clearly necessary and the stage was being reached at which something should have been done about it urgently. As I have said, the Labor Government did something about this matter and would have allocated the work to NQEA. 
One of the things which astounds me is the fact that in this place I have not heard one word of protest from the honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Thomson),  the member for the electorate of which Cairns is the centre, at the decision of the Government he supports. The Minister for Transport is a member of the same political Party as the honourable member for Leichhardt- the National Country Party of Australia. We have not heard from him one word of objection to this decision of the Government not to proceed with the building of this ship, which would have provided employment for people in the Cairns area. It would have assisted a decentralised industry which provides more employment outside of Brisbane than any other industry in Queensland. 
The honourable member for Leichhardt remains silent in this place when he should be raising his voice. He should be objecting this morning about the decision of the Government. It should have been he who was objecting right from the word go when he saw what the Government was doing in cutting work and in eliminating government expenditure. We have not heard one word from him, not one word of objection to the Minister who belongs to the same political party as he does. I am astounded that this Government, in this cutting of expenditure, is prepared to put Australian coastal and international shipping at risk by reason of the fact that it is not maintaining its navigational aids. Not only is it not proceeding with the building of this ship, but also it has eliminated $600,000 worth of work from the existing navigational aid program. We have reached a point where the servicing and maintaining of navigational aids around the Australian coast is now deteriorating and there are now second class facilities rather than first class facilities. It is the international responsibility of this Government and of all governments to ensure that shipping can operate safely in waters over which they have control. I ask the Minister and the Government to reconsider this decision in the light of the facts that I have brought to the attention of the House today, get on with the job of building this ship and ensure that Australia can provide first class navigational aids. This would enable the Government to provide employment for people in the north Queensland region where work is important and where the NQEA can be preserved, developed and retained in operation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted.  (The table read as follows)- 

<graphic href="099131197605204_92_4.jpg"></graphic>

Other proposals which will broaden the eligibility conditions for payment are (a) children of alien fathers will no longer be disqualified on nationality grounds; and (b) payment will in future be made to a person presently ineligible if a child is dependent on the claimant or spouse and the claimant or spouse is a resident of 
Australia as defined in the Income Tax Assessment Act. 
The new rates of family allowances will apply from 15 June and will be available for payment in respect of instalments due on 13 July 1976. Because of the administrative arrangements applying to payment, many people paid by cheque will receive the higher amount on 29 June 1976. People who are receiving family allowances when the new rates come into operation will not need to apply to receive the higher payments, but claims will need to be lodged by those who will become eligible to receive payments under the new eligibility conditions. For example, where a student is above the age of 21 years, a new claim will need to be lodged. The Department of Social Security has no way of re-activating claims which have already expired. General publicity will bo given to the new conditions of eligibility. 
The proposals outlined arise from a review til" the manner in which assistance for families is now available. Most families receive assistance for children under 16 years of age and students by way of child endowment and personal incometax rebates. However, the benefits that arc available to some taxpayers by way of tax rebates for children do not apply to some 300 000 families whose incomes are insufficient to enable them to take advantage of those tax rebates. The Government regards it as of first importance that these families who, as a class, are those most in need, should receive the additional financial help which this Bill will provide. The redistribution of income described is possible as a result of the parallel Government decision to abolish personal income tax rebates for children and students. Increases in the sole parent rebate and the rebate for a dependent spouse will be of benefit to all single income families which are subject to taxation. For such families they will more than offset any reduction in assistance for children arising from the substitution of increased family allowances for personal income tax rebates. 
The abolition of tax allowances for children and large increases in family allowances were recommended by Professor Henderson in the first main report of the Commission of Inquiry into Poverty. The report of the Taxation Review Committee under  Mr Justice  Asprey also saw advantage in a change of this kind. The increases in family allowances will take effect at virtually the same time as the pay-as-you-earn schedules of tax instalments are adjusted to take account of the withdrawal of rebates for children and students. The actual impact of the withdrawal of tax rebates on pay-packets themselves will also be reduced because of the effects of tax indexation. The new proposals will increase the annual cost of child endowment by $785m to $ 1 ,020m a year. This additional cost will be offset by the abolition of taxation rebates for children and students. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Scholes)  adjourned. 
-I have received advice from the Leader of the Opposition that he has nominated  Mr Willis  to be a member of the Standing Committee on Expenditure to fill the vacancy caused by the resignation of  Mr Jacobi. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted.  (The table read as follows)- 

<graphic href="099131197605263_48_0.jpg"></graphic>

There has been a lot of argument on the point that the taxpayers in the poorer section of the community should not subsidise the richer people who go into private or intermediate wards. I agree with that proposition, as it has been stated repeatedly by the Prime Minster and the Minister for Health in the last few days. But it is important to remember that the taxpayers in the poorer section of the community still will have to pay for it because those people who do not insure themselves and who in fact claim deductions for hospital and medical expenses still will be entitled to a rebate of 40c in the dollar for their expenses. I have made the point that there are 2 grounds against single people- that the single person is to be charged a 2.5 per cent levy, even though to a lower maximum level, that it is unfair for the people who stay in Medibank and that it will attract to the funds the young, single, healthy people who obviously are the best from the insurers point of view. 
In his second reading speech on the Health Insurance Amendment Bill the Minister for Health referred to unnecessary work being done and said that he hoped that doctors will contribute to reducing the cost of medical services. I wish to make a few points on that aspect. One of the points that distinguishes personal health services from many other services, although not from all services, is that the customer does not know what he is buying, which is a terribly important point, and the major supplier can manipulate the demand. The major supplier is the doctor. As the Minister said in his second reading speech, the doctor can decide just how many and what services one should have as a customer. I think Parkinson's law when applied to medicine states that the demand for surgery will increase to fill all the available beds, to fill all the available operating theatres and to occupy all the available surgeons. 
I conclude my remarks by saying that I support the Government in relation to the proposition of doubling the fees for intermediate and private wards. There has been some criticism of this proposition, but I think it is a perfectly justifiable action to double the fees. The new amount still will be below the amount which is the real cost to the States governments. I think it is important that the fees be doubled. But the Government is doing it for the wrong reasons, if I read the Minister's speech correctly. It is doing it to make it easier for people to go into private hospitals rather than the private wards and intermediate wards of public hospitals. But, whatever the reasons, I think it is an important principle, as the Prime Minister pointed out the other day, that the poorer sections of the community do not subsidise those sections of the community which go into intermediate and private wards. 
Obviously I still will be given the opportunity to speak in the Committee stage of the debate on this legislation. I deplore the manner in which this legislation was brought on for debate. I think it would have been much better to leave the Bills lying on the table for a few weeks while the Parliament was sitting so that wider discussion on them would be possible and the views of more interested bodies could be obtained. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Bonnett)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Is the motion seconded? 
-Order! The honourable member for Prospect is not raising a point of order, and I am sure he is aware of that fact. 
Those of us who have been here for a number of years can recall vividly the repeated hangup of honourable members opposite in their attitude towards private health funds. The honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  looks up in a querulous style, knowing darn well that I am referring to him also. The truth is that the Nimmo report of 5 or 6 years ago stated that a proliferation of private health funds in no way increased the cost of administering health care in this country. 
We spent money like it was going out of fashion. 
-The House stands adjourned until 10 a.m. tomorrow. 
House adjourned at 1 1.3 p.m. 
-Is it the wish of the House to proceed with the debate as suggested by the Minister? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Darling) (12.28)-Mr  Deputy Speaker,  I support the Wool Industry Amendment Bill and the Wool Tax Amendment Bills (Nos 1 to 5) because they represent a continuation of the praiseworthy legislation introduced by the previous Labor Government which was aimed at bringing about a common sense and beneficial marketing system for our Australian wool clip. I remind the House that such legislation was urgently needed but sadly lacking during the long term of office of the previous Liberal-Country Party Government. In spite of the many crises which the wool industry faced during that period, that Government failed to come up with a scheme that offered any real assistance to the wool industry. If honourable members will recall that that Government introduced a scheme which provided emergency financial assistance for wool growers and also the Wool (Deficiency Payments) Act 1971, they will realise the very serious plight in which the wool industry found itself during that period. 
Even before the Labor Government came into office in 1972, the Australian Labor Party was negotiating with China, Russia and other countries to find markets ."or our primary industries. Late in 1972 wool prices were rising slowly. But under the Labor Government they rose dramatically during the latter part of the 1972-73 wool season. They reached a peak of 295c per kilogram in March 1973, the highest price since the 1950-51 Korean War boom. However, during the first half of the 1974-75 season demand was very poor and by June the price had fallen to 129c. The average price for wool during the 1974-75 season was 127c per kilogram of greasy wool. It must be remembered that even this low price was twice the amount of 64.7c received in 1970-71 under the Liberal-Country Party Government. These figures can be found in the Department of Agriculture publication of August 1975. 
Even though the price by June of the 1974-75 season was twice the price that obtained under the reigning Liberal-Country Party Government, the Labor Government took definite steps to obtain a better price for our Australian wool clip. Early in 1974 the Australian Wool Corporation recommended the introduction of a new wool marketing scheme where a single marketing authority would handle all of our greasy wool destined for export. This, of course, was over 90 per cent of the Australian wool clip. The Labor Government, anxious to sponsor a sensible wool marketing scheme, was very much in favour of this proposal and entered into negotiations with various people interested in the wool industry to bring about a sensible marketing scheme. Of course, during that period we heard the old cry of socialism from the Liberal and Country Party benches but members of those parties were unable to offer any better scheme for the marketing of our Australian wool clip. They were afraid to mention the word 'socialism' when the Labor Government authorised the Australian Wool Corporation to operate a floor price for wool sold during the rest of the 1974-75 season equivalent to 250c per kilogram for 21 micron wool. Although it was made plain that they would prefer the Australian Wool Corporation to obtain funds by private borrowing, it was clear that all that could be obtained from a consortium of private banks was $34m. The Labor Government, interested in the Australian wool clip, in the Australian wool industry, introduced legislation which authorised loans of up to $350m. No doubt this was the kind of socialism that the wool growers did not mind. They knew that it was not the private trading banks or the Liberal and Country Parties that saved the wool industry. The only time that wool growers have ever been able to get finance from private banks is when they could prove they did not need it. The wool industry knew that the schemes introduced by the Liberal and Country Parties, such as the emergency financial assistance for wool growers and the wool deficiency payments schemes, did nothing to solve the marketing problems of the wool industry. Neither will the present Government's defeatist scheme of dole handouts to the primary industry do anything to solve the marketing problems. All the wool industry wants is a fair go and a sensible marketing system. I am supporting the Bills before the House today because they provide for an extension of the very creditable marketing scheme that was introduced by the Labor Government. 
I ask the House to compare this scheme with the emergency financial assistance provided for woolgrowers. Honourable members will recall that big woolgrowers who were in the know at that time were able to reduce their wool incomes by 8 per cent and, by so doing, received a gift of $1,500. Small woolgrowers trying to build up their wool stock and thereby increase their returns from wool were unable to receive any assistance. Everywhere one travelled in the country one could feel the divisiveness caused by this illfounded and unfairly operating scheme. It created resentment not only amongst wool growers but also between wool growers and members of other primary industries such as the dried fruits industry and the poor wheat growers who were at the time forced to operate under a quota system. 
The Liberal-National Country Party Government has a strange way of solving our rural problems. It provides handouts to wealthy farmers. If one is a big user of superphosphate, one receives $5,000; if one cannot make it in the Melbourne Club, one gets the dole. The Labor Government's decision for the wool market for 1975-76 supported the previous legislation and provided for a continuation of the 1974-75 floor price arrangements. The Liberal-National Country Party Government no doubt would still cry socialism about that action but it knows that wool growers would soon silence it. So today we have this Government endorsing the Labor Party's policy and providing only for an extension of the existing accounting provisions contained in the original legislation for the floor price scheme so that those existing accounting provisions cover the 1976-77 wool marketing period, together with a small measure to provide for the inclusion in the Australian Wool Corporation's trading results of any profit or loss arising from its activities in processing or manufacture of wool products and trading in such products. Of course, it was not necessary to make these provisions in the original legislation as no such processing or manufacture was taking place. 
I believe that when woolgrowers agreed to pay an additional 5 per cent levy into the market support fund- previously they had paid into the research fund only- this action showed that they were prepared to make a major contribution to market support and to contribute to price support of their own commodity provided a clear system was submitted to them, backed by their representatives and also by the Government. One of the most praiseworthy provisions in the Bill is the arrangement made to enable the Corporation to make advances to growers when the sale of their wool has been delayed by the Wool Corporation through rescheduled offerings. I say that this provision is most praiseworthy because carry-on finance is one of the greatest problems facing the rural sector in a period of low market prices. Because these provisions are included which are in the best interests, I believe, of the wool industry and because this legislation endorses measures introduced by the Labor Government, I support these Bills. 
-Order! I remind the honourable member for Dension that I have said that this clause covers the voting system and certain matters related to it. I think that a passing reference to the collegiate system has been justified. I think perhaps that not only the honourable member for Denison but also other honourable members have gone rather wider than that. I think if we take a trip round the world in discussing many other systems of voting we will interrupt the Prime Minister and his statement at 8 o'clock. I suggest that the Committee might come back to the point and the clause that are under discussion at this moment. 
-! think that there is merit in the suggestion made by the honourable member for Hotham. In discussing this Bill we have ranged rather widely over all the points. As suggested by the honourable member for Hotham, it might be advantageous to us all at this hour if we were to stick, in relation to clause 13 and the remainder of the Bill, strictly to a narrow interpretation of what the Bill implies. 
I want to add only one more comment,  Sir. At  one stage of his remarks the Minister said that there had been, I think, only 29 applications for postal ballots out of 1 50 unions. 
-I suggest to the honourable member for Griffith that the honourable member for Port Adelaide is speaking to the clause as much as other members have been doing so. 
Consideration interrupted. 
-Before I call the Minister, I point out to the Committee that the clause which we are considering at the moment is clause 6. 1 remind the honourable member for Griffith that under proceedings before the Commission under sections 31, 34, 35 or 36A it shall take into consideration the public interest, and for that purpose shall have regard to the state of the national economy and the likely effects on that economy of any award that might be made in the proceedings or to which the proceedings relate, with special reference to likely effects on the level of employment and on inflation. The amendment moved by the honourable member for Lilley seeks to delete the word 'inflation' and to insert other words. Further matters concerning that were discussed by the Committee prior to the suspension of the sitting. The reason I did not interrupt the honourable member for Port Adelaide was that it would have interrupted his time. That is the clause before the Committee and the discussion at the moment. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the 3 measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted.  ( The document read as follows)- 
DANDENONG AND DISTRICT HOSPITAL 
Capital Works Estimated Cash Flow In/Out 
Date: 11 February 1976 
South Block: Figures conveyed by the contractor through our Architects, indicate that the original contract price of $4,301,317 will increase $1,611,000 (cost adjustment) by the estimated completion date of mid April 1977, making a total estimated expenditure of $6,002,3 1 7. 
The Contractor's estimated progress claims for the balance of the contract are as follows: 

<graphic href="099131197606022_88_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="099131197606022_89_0.jpg"></graphic>

Future Capital Income: At the meeting at the Hospitals and Charities Commission on 16 January 1976, we were advised that our future capital grants were: 

<graphic href="099131197606022_89_1.jpg"></graphic>

(N.B. Capital expenditure (all areas) up to Certificate No. 12 (South Block) for 1975-76 is $1,302,165 leaving a balance available for 1975-76 of $497,814.) 
Boiler House Extensions: At the meeting on 16 January 1976, the Commission also advised that an amount of $1,000,000 was estimated as the requirement for the Boiler House Extensions, including professional fees. 
Financial Position: Income and expenditure, all estimated, during future years is therefore likely to be: 

<graphic href="099131197606022_89_2.jpg"></graphic>

-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development Parliament House, Canberra, A.C.T. 2600 
My dear Minister, 
I am writing to confirm the agreement we have reached today following our consultation in accordance with the Administrative Procedures of the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act of 1974-75 on the necessity or otherwise of holding a public environmental enquiry on the operation of the Concorde aircraft into Australia, in particular to Tullamarine Airport. 
I agree that the key environmental problem for Australia, in so far as it can be determined at this time, is the noise impacts in the vicinity of Tullamarine and upon occasion at any alternative airport to which the aircraft might be diverted. I understand from preliminary discussions between our respective officers that this can be minimised by the selection of appropriate flight paths. This is a matter that I believe should be pursued further between our officers and as appropriate with representatives of the Victorian Government. 
Setting this aspect aside, the wider consequences on the global environment have been well canvassed in enquiries in other countries and at this time I do not believe that further knowledge would be gained by traversing these issues again in an Australian environmental enquiry. What is required is for us to set up and maintain a general monitoring and study programme on supersonic aircraft operations which will permit us to take any action necessary if deleterious effects become evident. 
In summary, in the light of the foregoing observations, I agree with your contention that a public enquiry is not warranted and I am prepared to recommend to the Government that Concorde operations into Australia in the form described in the environmental impact statement be not opposed on environmental grounds subject to: 
a continuous monitoring and study programme being maintained on the effects of supersonic aircraft operations in general with provision for revision of our agreement should adverse effects become apparent: and 
a study programme being undertaken between our officials and if desired by those of the Victorian Government on the immediate noise impacts in the vicinity of Tullamarine arising from different Concorde flight paths. 
I have copied this letter to the Prime Minister and subject to your concurrence propose that we ask him to agree to this course and so inform the Victorian Premier and appropriately announce the Government's decision. 
Yours sincerely, M.J. R. MACKELLAR 
The Honourable P. J. Nixon, M.P., Minister for Transport, Parliament House, CANBERRA A.C.T. 2600 
In summary, in the light of the foregoing observations, I agree with your contention that a public enquiry is not warranted and I am prepared to recommend to the Government that Concorde operations into Australia in the form described in the environmental impact statement be not opposed on environmental grounds subject to- 
And these were the arrangements that I proposed to the then Acting Minister to which he agreed- 
a continuous monitoring and study program being maintained on the effects of supersonic aircraft operations in general with provision for revisions - 
This is important because I was keen to make sure that there be some means of revising the agreement-  of our agreement should adverse effects become apparent; and 
a study program being undertaken between our officials and if desired by those of the Victorian Government on the immediate noise impacts in the vicinity of Tullamarine arising from different Concorde flight paths. 
That is an important letter because it deals with the question of the need for a public hearing as laid down in the Act. I have been advised that the date of the letter is 27 May. The letter is important because it makes clear that we were properly following the procedures set out in the Act. The letter confirms that in the judgment of the then Acting Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, on the information that had been made available there was no need for a public inquiry. 
A letter was received from the British High Commission which I read to the House in answer to a question yesterday. I will not go through it again. The British High Commission again confirmed that the draft impact statement with some minor editorial changes will be the final environmental impact statement on the question of Concorde visits to Australia. That is important because it goes very much to the heart of the allegation made by the honourable member for Reid. In other words this is the impact statement, with an addendum covering the submissions that have been made on it by Australians, upon which the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development and the Acting Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development made their judgment that there is no cause for a public inquiry. It shows that there is no case against Concorde. That becomes the final environment impact study and it has been available since December. Everybody concerned has a copy of it. Therefore there is no case to support a charge that we have breached the Act. The impact statement has been available since December and the British have said that there are no changes to it apart from minor editorial changes, and an addendum carrying the submissions and their comment on them. 
Mark you,  Mr Deputy Speaker-  this is importantfrom all the statements the Department and the Acting Minister have already made a judgment that no case exists for stopping Concorde. I submit, contrary to what the honourable member for Reid said, that we are not in breach of the Act. We are still in a position to present the 5 copies of the final draft of the study when it comes to hand. There is nothing in the Act that says it has to be done before a decision is made on Concorde. That is an assumption made by the honourable member for Reid and it is not correct. The final decision on Concorde can be taken subject to the provisions of the Act that I have stipulated and to which I have referred. In my view we have been impeccable in coming to a conclusion. 
It seems to me strange that the honourable member for Reid should make this allegation against this Government, pretending that it is acting improperly and suggesting that I acted improperly, as the Minister for Transport, in permitting Concorde into Australia. He went to some lengths to try to prove his case but let us compare its merit. I have proved that we are right but let us compare our actions with allegations about the sort of things done by the previous Government. Let us compare my actions as against those of a certain group of Ministers in the previous Government who approved the right to go overseas and raise $4,000m in loans contrary to the constitutional requirement. Let us compare the severity of the charge against me on this issue- I have proved I am right anyway but the honourable member raised it- against the background of those sorts of errors and then we can get this case into some sort of perspective. 
The fact is that there is no case against the Concorde as supplied by the evidence. There has been no breach of the Act, as alleged by the honourable member, and in my view there was no point in delay. The fact is that it is going to take months to gear up for the Concorde to come to Australia. If account is taken of the environmental issues and the decision can be made that it can come here on its trial run, the sooner we can let the British know about it the better. I did so and I did so properly. The British have a lot of work to do to clear the way for Concorde to come to Australia. They have to reach agreement with Qantas Airways Ltd and there may be a necessity for government to government agreement. 
There has to be an agreement between the British Government and the Singapore Government, maybe with the Indian Government and perhaps with a number of other governments. There is a lot of work to do. They have to bring spare parts to Australia and a lot of training has to be undertaken by Concorde crews. It seemed to me that as nothing in environmental terms stood in the way it was proper that the British be advised as soon as possible of our decision to allow Concorde to come to Australia. 
The Concorde project is a commercial operation and whether it succeeds or fails will be a commercial judgment subject to the continuous monitoring of the environmetal impact that Concorde will make when it comes to Tullamarine. I make that point quite clearly. We did not accept, as the Americans did, a fifteen or eighteen months trial period. We put Concorde on trial right from the start and it will remain on trial. If at any time, in the opinion of the group that will be studying Concorde, there is a need to revise our decision on its coming to Australia we will take that decision. We did not just select an 18 months barrier and say that we would let it operate for 18 months and inform the operators then. We will give the operators notice, under due process, when we are satisfied about the environmental impact. I submit most strongly that no case exists on the allegations made about any breach of the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act. We have followed it through carefully and I submit the case of the honourable member for Reid fails. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted.  ( The recommendations read as follows)- 
RECOMMENDATIONS FROM THE SUB-COMMITTEE 
The Sub-committee recommends that: 
The Federal Government, in establishing a Bureau of Road Safety provide maximum assistance to the Bureau to enable it to become fully operational as soon as possible. (Paragraph 54) 
The Design Rule Committee come within the Bureau of Road Safety's jurisdiction and that the Bureau of Road Safety be developed as the principal body for formulating standards and recommend proposed Australian Design Rules to Australian Transport Advisory Council for approval. (Paragraph 78) 
The Australian Transport Advisory Council in its review of the Advisory Committee on Safety in Vehicle Design give careful consideration to its membership and make provision for consumer representation. ( Paragraph 82 ) 
Design rule proposals be publicised and comment invited during the 90 day period. (Paragraph 86) 
In general Australian Design Rules should follow overseas standards but the making of unique rules should not be precluded where considered desirable but particularly where justified by Australian conditions. (Paragraph 97) 
Draft Regulations should be immediately called up into Australian Capital Territory and Northern Territory legislation and enforced through the inspection system in the Australian Capital Territory. (Paragraph 111) 
-A complete review and rationalisation of the relevance and adequacy of the Draft Regulations be made by the Government as soon as practicable. 
The Bureau of Road Safety co-ordinate the functions of the Advisory Committee on Vehicle Performance, the Advisory Committee on Safety in Vehicle Design and the Standards Association of Australia to avoid duplication in the formulation of standards. 
Australian Transport Advisory Council endeavour to ensure that safety related Draft Regulations it approves are enacted in each State and Territory. (Paragraph 118) 
-Australian Transport Advisory Council recommend to its constituent members legislative proposals to ensure uniform compliance of Australian Design Rule throughout Australia requiring the fixing of compliance plates to all vehicles and that penalties be included for failure of manufacturers to affix compliance plates. 
The Bureau of Road Safety institute procedures for the thorough testing of vehicles to ensure satisfactory compliance with Australian Design Rules. (Paragraph 133) 
The Advisory Committee on Safety in Vehicle Design make a formal approach to individual vehicle companies requesting detailed cost information and other relevant information whenever necessary for the purposes of design rule formulation. Manufacturers should also be requested to provide assistance in evaluating the effectiveness of safety features in vehicles. (Paragraph 188) 
The Department of the Treasury review its advice on the proposal for a reduction of sales tax on vehicle safety components in the interest of obtaining increased vehicle safety at a reduced cost. (Paragraph 192) 
The Bureau of Road Safety monitor television, radio and newspaper advertisements of manufacturers and bring to the company's attention advertising which, in the opinion of the Bureau, is not in the interest of road safety, requesting appropriate rectification. (Paragraph 20 1 ) 
 The Bureau of Road Safety investigate means by which all appropriate bodies which inspect new vehicles, including State governments, will be required or requested to formally advise the Bureau of detailed results of their inspections in relation to safety related defects. 
The Bureau of Road Safety communicate to manufacturers evidence of serious or recurring safety related defects and seek their co-operation with regard to their correction. 
The Federal Government establish a stricter procedure for the comprehensive inspection and recording of safety related defects in new vehicles and that the testing of vehicles be conducted by the Army Quality Assurance Service on behalf of all Federal Departments and Instrumentalities on a costshare basis. (Paragraph 227) 
 The Bureau of Road Safety investigate the establishment of a committee, representing all relevant organisations, as a form of mediation between manufacturers and others to: 
monitor defect information, 
monitor manufacturers' action with regard to recalls, 
regularly publicise all defect and recall information, and 
The Federal Minister for Transport report to the Australian Transport Advisory Council on the success or otherwise of this problem over a period of time with the view to obtaining by co-operation a legal framework in which to operate if this is found necessary. (Paragraph 258) 
The Bureau of Road Safety establish formal access to vehicle company plants for quality control observation and develop a system of monitoring quality control standards. (Paragraph 272) 
Australian Design Rule 3 1 be reconsidered with a view to ensuring that overall braking performance will at least be maintained. (Paragraph 30 1 ) 
The Bureau of Road Safety undertake or commission and supervise a test program over a range of surface and load conditions with a view to establishing braking performance requirements based on the statistical mean performance of present vehicles. (Paragraph 30 1 ) 
The Advisory Committee on Safety in Vehicle Design investigate brake response time with a view to incorporating reasonable standards into a design rule. (Paragraph 307) 
An educational campaign be conducted by the Government to inform the public, particularly mechanics, of the need for proper attention to the handling of brake fluids. (Paragraph 3 16) 
The Advisory Committee on Safety in Vehicle Design investigate the severity of the problems associated with brake fluids with a view to specifying a performance standard for brake fluids to ensure that only high quality brake fluids are utilised. (Paragraph 318) 
Force and performance requirements of Australian Design Rule 3 1 be reviewed with respect to the development of a partial compensating master cylinder to establish whether less degradation of performance is now practical at a low cost safety benefit. (Paragraph 323) 
The Bureau of Road Safety should investigate the appropriate labelling of retreaded tyres (including tread depth indicators) and maximum recommended vehicle speeds when fitted with retreaded tyres. (Paragraph 337) 
The Bureau of Road Safety provide a facility for approved marking of replacement wheels shown to comply with appropriate strength and durability standards. (Paragraph 338) 
An Australian Design Rule be developed to ensure that Australia obtains at least the degree of standardisation of controls and instrument panel achieved by overseas legislation. (Paragraph 343) 
A stop lamp indicator requirement be considered by the Advisory Committee on Safety in Vehicle Design to inform the driver of the correct functioning of brake lamps and that the provision of a brake failure indicator be investigated for its effectiveness and possible standard use. (Paragraph 344) 
Immediate steps be taken to develop an Australian Design Rule to prevent less conspicuous colours being applied to vehicles. (Paragraph 358) 
All Federal and State Government Departments and Authorities ensure that vehicle colour selection is made on the basis of safety . ( Paragraph 361) 
A no less demanding design rule for field of view be substituted for Australian Design Rule 13, to ensure that advantages already gained are not negated. (Paragraph 367) 
Australian Design Rule 15 be upgraded to include demisting of the rear window. (Paragraph 376) 
The fitting of 4-way flasher warning lights be subject to Australian Design Rule formulation without further delay. (Paragraph 379) 
Developments in human tolerances, vehicle aggressivity and cost-benefit, be closely monitored, supported by local research where possible, with the objective of drafting performance specifications for crashworthiness. (Paragraph 399) 
1. The method of data reporting for rollover accidents be investigated. (Paragraph 4 1 9) 
The Federal Government ensure that the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory immediately legislate for the retrofitting of seat belts based on the Advisory Committee on Vehicle Performance draft code of practice. (Paragraph 444) 
The Federal Department of Transport in conjunction with the State and Territory registration authorities, immediately initiate a program to notify all pre- 1974 model vehicle owners, at the time of registration renewal, of the inherent dangers associated with the incorrect wearing and fitting of seat belts. (Paragraph 454) 
The Government investigate the practicality and feasibility of incorporating an outside device on vehicles to indicate whether seat belts are being worn. ( Paragraph 465 ) 
An Australian Design Rule be developed to ensure that vehicles are fitted with a 'fasten seat belts' warning light on the dashboard operated in conjunction with the ignition switch. (Paragraph 466 ) 
The Government immediately investigate the present reasons for granting exemptions from seat belt wearing and encourage State and Territory authorities to amend their legislation according to the result of the investigation. (Paragraph 468) 
The Advisory Committee on Safety in Vehicle Design investigate the desirability of passive belt restraints with a view to design rule implementation. (Paragraph 473) 
The Federal Government promote the beneficial effects of Australian seat belt wearing law in overseas countries. (Paragraph 478) 
The Federal Government ensure that the Australian Capital Territory and Northern Territory legislate to ban the sale and fitting of unapproved child restraints. (Paragraph 490) 
The Advisory Committee on Safety in Vehicle Design undertake research with a view to designing vehicles, particularly family type vehicles, to enable the fitting of approved child restraints. (Paragraph 49 1 ) 
Immediate steps be taken by the Federal Government to ensure that legislation is enacted to require the wearing of restraints by children in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. (Paragraph 493 ) 
The Advisory Committee on Safety in Vehicle Design review Australian Design Rule 10 in line with approved developments and that the angled effectiveness of energy absorbing columns be verified and possibly incorporated into the design rule. (Paragraph 506) 
An Australian Design Rule be developed to ensure that vehicles are fitted with laminated windscreens consistent with the latest developments of laminated glass. (Paragraph 524) 
The Advisory Committee on Safety in Vehicle Design " investigate developing a design rule to reduce fire risks, no less stringent than the United States standard. (Paragraph 531) 
Data collection and analysis be modified to more accurately relate pedestrian injuries to various vehicle designs and features in order to determine significant variations in protection performance. (Paragraph 544) 
The Bureau of Road Safety urgently review existing information on Periodic Motor Vehicle Inspection with a view to urging the States not already using Periodic Motor Vehicle Inspection to adopt a suitable form of inspection system to suit their needs. 
The Federal Government urgently investigate a form of Periodic Motor Vehicle Inspection suitable for the Northern Territory with a view to its early implementation. (Paragraph 567) 
The 'hot line' concept for dealing with consumer complaints be extended and improved within the Bureau of Road Safety to ensure protection in the vehicle safety area. 
The Bureau of Road Safety regularly publish details of consumer items relating to vehicle safety similar to Consumer Protection Bulletins issued by the United States National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. (Paragraph 599) 
The Bureau of Road Safety should, in conjunction with all State and Territory police, ambulance and traffic authorities, develop simplified reporting formats and the use of coding information to facilitate data collection by police and ambulance officers. (Paragraph 636) 
The Federal Government remove all administrative impediments so that the Aeronautical Research Laboratories can be utilised for appropriate road safety research whenever defence commitments permit. (Paragraph 664) 
The Federal Minister for Transport, in co-operation with the Federal Treasurer, request the Insurance Commissioner to obtain relevant information from insurance companies. (Paragraph 687) 
The Federal Government, in consultation with State Governments, should investigate implementing a system of variable rating of third parry insurance according to vehicle size and accident record and other matters which encourage occupant safety as well as a system of funding third party insurance by a fuel tax either in whole or in part. (Paragraph 696) 
The Bureau of Road Safety, in conjunction with the Australian Bureau of Statistics, investigate the usefulness of  selecting data from insurance companies and formally seek the co-operation of the insurance industry to assist in vehicle safety research. (Paragraph 704) 
Dip switch location varies considerably from car to car. There is a great danger, particularly in 2-car families where a driver used to one set of controls, and having to make a quick decision, will make the wrong one. These controls should be standardised to avoid the sort of accident that can occur because a driver makes a mistake or has to think for some time exactly what or where his controls are. To suggest, as some do, that this would restrict the manufacturer is patently absurd. We do not argue about where the brakes or clutch or steering wheel should be, and it is now an Australian design rule that the automatic car has its various gears located in the same place. 
Recommendation No. 24 suggests that a stop lamp indicator requirement be considered to inform the driver of the correct functioning of brake lamps and that the provision of a brake failure indicator be investigated for its effectiveness and possible standard use. Recommendation Nos 25 and 26 deal with the colours of motor vehicles and a considerable section of the report, from paragraphs 346 to 358, deals with the immense value of lighter coloured vehicles for safety purposes. Although the Committee was somewhat guarded on its recommendations on colour, it was given evidence- this is detailed in the report in paragraph 350- of studies conducted in Sweden, the United States and Germany, indicating that light coloured vehicles were much safer than dark coloured vehicles. Let me quote from the report. The study in Sweden of 31000 collisions found that black vehicles were involved in 22.5 per cent of these collisions. 
As black vehicles comprised only 4.4 per cent of the vehicle population, they were overrepresented by a factor of five. The 'safest' colour, according to Viberg, was pink. The report includes some excellent visual aids made available by Mercedes-Benz showing the benefits of light colours and listing in order of conspicuousness the various colours from white, which was the most conspicuous, to dark blue, which was the least. Some 1 9 different colours were tested. 
Recommendation Nos 25 and 26 urge that steps be taken to develop an Australian design rule to prevent less conspicuous colours and that Federal and State departments and authorities make colour a basis for selection in the purchase of their own vehicles. I have noted with considerable satisfaction that the black government car is now being replaced by the white government car. Recommendation No. 28 was that the Australian Design Rule No. 15 be upgraded to include demisting of the rear window. I do not think this needs any further explanation. I think most people would understand the value of a demisted rear window. Recommendation No. 29 was that an ADR be formulated for the fitting of 4-way flasher warning lights. As honourable members would know, a considerable number of vehicles now have these fitted and in the event of a car being forced to stop or being involved in an accident, the 4-way flasher can be seen and is a warning for cars coming from either direction to drive carefully. 
In my view the most important section of the report with regard to the potential for saving lives is found in recommendations numbers 32 to 41, which deal with seat belts and child restraints. Australians can be justly proud of their record in the reduction of the number of deaths and injuries on the road during the past 5 years. Australia's dramatic improvement dates from the recommendation of the Victorian Parliament's Joint Select Committee on Road Safetythis was mentioned by the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Groom)  who preceded me in the debate and who I think must have read my speech because he has taken so much out of itthat all occupants of motor vehicles should be required to wear seat belts within a maximum period of 2 years. The other States, which were fearful of voter backlash, watched the Victorian initiative with interest and when it became obvious that it was an amazing success they eventually followed. The world watched Australia's dramatic breakthrough and slowly is following our example. I noticed that the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Groom)  said that America was doing so. I do not think that is correct. I think that the honourable member should check on that. I do not think that that country requires the compulsory wearing of seat belts. 
I have constantly been infuriated by the failure of the Press to highlight the impact of the compulsory wearing of seat belts. I was amused to hear- again this was mentioned by the honourable member for Braddon-  Mr Huxtable  of the National Roads and Motorists Association when interviewed on  Four Corners  last Saturday night state that the newspapers had ignored this reduction caused by seat belts because good news did not sell newspapers. I can recall only one major article in recent years that highlighted the dramatic reduction. That was in the  Sydney Morning Herald  on 16 April 1976. The article was headlined: 'Cars multiply but road death rate falls over 10 years.' The article listed the various measures that had contributed to the reduction in New South Wales from 8.3 deaths per 10 000 vehicles in 1966 to 5.8 per 10 000 in 1975. That is a dramatic reduction in anybody's language. Heading that list was compulsory seat belts. In 1970 1309 people were killed in New South Wales. Despite a continuing increase in drivers, vehicles and miles driven during the next 2 years- that is 1971 and 1972- when seat belts were made compulsory the numbers dropped to 1249 in 1971 and 1092 in 1972 which was the first full year for seat belts. The number started to rise again once the full benefit of the legislation had had its effect, but 6 years later is still below the 1970 figure despite the quite massive increase in drivers and vehicles. 
The report shows by the use of graphs on Australia and Victoria, where the improvement has been even more dramatic, the massive saving in lives that is occurring through seat belt legislation. The figures are even more dramatic if one looks at vehicle occupants alone. Many people do not analyse the figures that are released in the Press of the numbers killed. The number of pedestrians, which is about a quarter of the total, and motor cyclists, where there has been a tragic increase in the number of people killed in recent years, has not been diminished by the use of seat belts. If one looks at vehicle occupants alone and studies the graphs on persons killed and injured one sees that there was for Australia a 26 per cent fall in fatalities from the prediction limits and for Victoria a massive 38 per cent drop in fatalities. Injuries, which we tend to forget in looking at the road toll, dropped by 21 per cent for Australia and 41 per cent for Victoria. It would be fair to say that there are 4500 Australians, most of them young, alive today and another 90 000 uninjured because of the Victorian initiative. Victoria, and those members of the Victorian Parliament who participated in the report of the Victorian joint select committee, can be justly proud of their achievement. However, there is still more to be done. I want to quote in full paragraph 426 which I believe highlights the fact that an even bigger breakthrough is around the corner if we have the resolve to take the plunge. The paragraph states: 
The Committee was informed that the highest percentage of death and injury came from unrestrained occupants involved in vehicle accidents.  Dr Henderson  indicated to the Committee that, based on studies undertaken by TARU in N.S.W., approximately 80 per cent of fatalities was coming from the 20 to 25 per cent of people who did not wear belts. He reasserted this view in later evidence when he indicated that a relatively high percentage of deaths will always come from the non-wearers of seat belts or from those wearing them incorrectly. A Melbourne study supported this observation. It found that in 1973, only one half of the drivers and one third of the front seat passengers injured in accidents, were wearing seat belts at the time of the accident. 
With this in mind the Committee therefore made a number of recommendations based on the evidence put before us. Recommendation No. 32 was that the Federal Government ensure that the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory follow the Victorian example of retrofitting cars without belts and recognising the difficulty that some people have in adjusting belts it should notify all pre- 1974 model owners of the inherent dangers associatd with the incorrect wearing and fitting of belts. 
Recommendations Nos 34 and 35 dealt with forcing to wear a belt the stupid driver who either refuses to buckle up or simply does not believe the weight of evidence. I even had one idiot write to me recently telling me that everybody knew how dangerous it is to wear a seat belt. There are people in Australia who still think this way. The recommendations were for a compulsory warning light both inside and outside the vehicle which would engage when a driver did not have his seat belt on. The former ought to annoy him sufficiently to put his seat belt on and the latter would alert police to the fact that he was not wearing a belt and they could act accordingly. If we can get the 20 per cent of people who are not wearing belts and yet providing 80 per cent of the deaths and injuries to wear belts, we may go close to eliminating the deaths to vehicle occupants. 
The Committee was particularly impressed with one new seat belt design. Paragraph 470 states: 
One of the latest overseas developments in seat belt technology shown to the Committee was the passive seat belt developed by Volkswagen. The belt is secured by inertia retractors to the front seat and the other end is anchored to  the door pillar. When the door is closed, the belt is automatically applied over the person in the vehicle. In place of a lap belt, mere is an energy absorbing knee bolster which prevents the passenger from slipping out under the belt in a collision. 
The belt is available overseas in the new Volkswagen Golf. The Committee was informed that this type of restraint was precluded under the wording of the ADRs. It therefore recommended that this be reviewed. 
Because of its deep concern for the number of children being killed the Committee made very strong recommendations on child restraints. I appeal to Australian parents not to be irresponsible in failing to have their children restrained when travelling in motor cars. When I am driving along and see two or three young children in another car being allowed to climb all over the place I feel like stopping that car and really giving the parents a talking to. Such drivers are being totally irresponsible. Children who are not restrained in cars are like guided missiles if a vehicle suddenly has to brake. 
As I have said before, this is an extremely comprehensive report and it is quite impossible to deal with every aspect of it in a short speech of this nature. There are a number of matters I would have liked to touch on, including the Committee's recommendations regarding laminated windscreens; the development of simplified reporting methods and coding information to enable the Bureau of Road Safety to analyse more effectively the faults in numerous makes and models of motor vehicles; the need for the Bureau to have available testing facilities to ensure satisfactory compliance with Australian design rules; the need for automobile manufacturers to provide detailed cost information regarding changes in design rules; and a request for Treasury to review its advice on sales tax on safety related items for motor vehicles and a whole range of other matters. The report covers 450 pages and obviously one could not deal with all of its aspects in 20 minutes. 
I think that the thrust of this report is that there is need for governments to legislate. If one looks carefully at the report one can see that Australian Motor Industries, a dealer in Japanese cars, made the point that the only way to get safer vehicles in Australia was for governments to legislate. If the representative of a major world manufacturer can say that surely that is evidence that this is what should be done. General-Motors Holden's Pty Ltd and to a lesser extent the Ford Motor Company of Australia Ltd and Chrysler Australia Ltd also made the point that because they are in a cost competitive situation one of them alone could not take these measures. However, it would be a different matter if they all had to install warning lights or do something to the brakes, for instance, because the costs would be the same for everyone. 
One of the things about which I was annoyed, and this evidence came out in our hearings, was the question of costs. The manufacturers waged a very effective campaign in the media in support of their assertion that the cost of safety related items was boosting the price of cars. After a lot of very unpleasant to-ing and fro-ing on the Committee they finally agreed to provide us with the figures. I think we almost had to threaten them with a subpoena to get the evidence. We finally got it and it showed that of the 30-odd safety related items the total cost was between $130 and $200 in vehicles costing between $5,000 and $6,000. They proved by their own evidence that what they had said over and over again was simply not correct. The cost of safety related items, and the major one was seat belts, was very insignificant in a car. 
The present Committee is a new one. I do not wish the fate of members of the previous Committee on members of this Committee. We had a very high injury rate; I think I am the sole remaining member of the original committee. We have some very interesting areas to look atbuses, trucks and bikes, and then we will move on to the human behaviour side. The past 2 years have been an exciting and exhilarating experience in bringing this report to its completion. I would like to have had the honour, as the previous  Chairman,  of introducing this report because I chaired the Committee through all its hearings. However the egoes of politicians are unimportant. What is important is that the job is done and I believe that through the work of the Committee staff and the Committee it has been done extremely well. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted.  (The document read as follows)- 
KELVIN GROVE COLLEGE OF ADVANCED EDUCATION 
Victoria Park Road, Kelvin Grove, Brisbane Queensland, 4059. Telephone 3567040. 3 1st May, 1976.  Sir Frank  Kitto, Australian Press Council P.O. Box A99 Sydney South, N.S.W. 2000 
Dear  Sir, 
In the following documentation I am outlining a series of events that occurred on this campus on Friday 28 May, 1 976. They plainly show an abusage of the power of the media, a disregard for the intelligence of students in particular, and society at large, as well as blatant racist attitudes. 
I feel that it is absolutely necessary that the Council be made aware of this incident so that it can immediately take all the appropriate action to ensure that this type of activity is stopped. 
On the morning of Friday 28 May, 1 976, two men professing to be news reporters from Channel 7 came onto campus in a vehicle marked 'Channel 7 Eye Witness News'. These two men proceeded to ask a group of students sitting in the quadrangle if they 'would like to be on television'. To do this they were to go to King George Square and set up a tent in opposition to the Black Embassy already situated there. The men said that they would film the students setting up the tent and then film them demonstrating against the fact that aboriginal people received an unfair advantage to education for their children in that they receive a special allowance of $ 1 a day or a week for each child- (they were not sure at all). When they (the gentlemen) spoke of the Aborigines they spoke in disrespectful terms such as 'Abos'. Further, they said they would be able to show even more prejudice against Whites if the police moved the White tent on. 
In reply to these statements our students joked and said that they were not very proficient at setting up tents. The men replied to this by saying that they had a simple 'two man tent' that they could use. 
Finally, our students told the men to leave because they were proposing an extremely racist act. The men left in the vehicle mentioned before. 
We the Union, took immediate action in phoning other campuses, however were not able to contact each of them. As a result, on the news that night, there was coverage of a group of students from another campus setting up a two man tent near the Aboriginal Embassy in King George Square. Further, it was interesting to note that there was only one channel air-playing the activity- Channel Seven. 
What we are concerned with here is not so much the particular case but its implications on the vehicle of media and its relationship to society. 
It seems that people involved in the media business are able to use the media to create their own news items (a reflection on payment for news reported) and extending this bias into the community. 
Our biggest fear is of the number of times this has happened before and will happen again and not be exposed. 
I trust that this will be taken up and acted upon. If you require any further information or co-operation on our part please contact us at the above address. 
Yours faithfully, JOHN FREY, President,  KGCAE  Student Union. 
-Is that course agreeable? 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted.  (The list read as follows)- 
Countries in respect of which overseas investment insurance cover has been taken out since 196S 
Columbia, Dubai, Fiji, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Iran, Japan, Khemer Republic, Lebanon, Malaysia, Mozambique, New Caledonia, Panama, Peru, Philippines, Singapore, Taiwan, Thailand, and Papua New Guinea. 
-I suggest to the honourable member for Corio, as I suggested to an honourable member earlier this afternoon, that he withdraw that remark. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr McVeigh)  adjourned. 
-Is leave granted for paragraph 133 of the report to be incorporated in  Hansard?  There being no objection, leave is granted.  (The document read as follows)- 
Tariff proposals 133 The Committee has recommended that legislation committees should be constituted for each Bill. Accordingly it would be inconsistent and inappropriate to suggest a permanent legislation committee to consider tariff proposals. The alternative, to include consideration of tariff proposals and IAC reports within a system of standing subject matter committees has obvious merit. However, the Committee has concluded (see Chapter IV) that the House should not establish a system of permanent standing subject matter committees. It is preferable to appoint select committees to do specific jobs when necessary. In Chapter IV the Committee discusses the establishment of a business committee. This committee is to carry out a sifting process- reporting to the House on any matters which it thinks require select committee type consideration. It is proposed therefore that tariff proposals and IAC reports be included amongst the material sifted by the business committee. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the 3 motions? I will allow that course to be followed. 
-I have received a letter from the  President  of the Senate advising that the Senate, by resolution on 3 June 1976, appointed Senators Brown, Button, Cavanagh, Greenwood, Webster and Withers to be members of the Commonwealth Parliament's delegation to attend the Australian Constitutional Convention. 
-The discussion is now concluded. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
Clause 2. 
1 ) Subject to sub-section (2), this Act shall come into operation on the day on which it receives the Royal Assent. 
Sections 4 and 5 shall come into operation on 1 September 1976. 
Clause 4. 
Section 100 of the Principal Act is amended- 
by inserting after sub-section (5) the following subsection: '(5a) A licensee shall not broadcast or televise an advertisement relating to cigarettes or cigarette tobacco and 
by adding at the end thereof the following subsection: '( 10) A reference in sub-section (5 ), (5a) or (6) to the broadcasting or televising of advertisements or of an advertisement shall be read as not including a reference to the broadcasting or televising of matter of an advertising character as a accidental or incidental accompaniment of the broadcasting or televising of other matter in circumstances in which the licensee does not receive payment or other valuable consideration for broadcasting or televising the advertising matter.'. 
Clause 7. 
Before section 105b of the Principal Act the following section is inserted in Division 5a of Part IV: - 105AA  (I)  The Minister may, after receipt of a recommendation by the Board, grant to a person a licence for a broadcasting translator station upon such conditions, and in accordance with such form, as the Minister determines. '(2) Subject to sub-section (3), the Board shall not recommend that a licence be granted for a broadcasting translator station if, in the opinion of the Board, satisfactory reception of broadcasting programs from a commercial broadcasting station is being obtained in the area in which the signals from that broadcasting translator station are designed to be satisfactorily received. '(3) Where the Board is of the opinion that satisfactory reception of broadcasting programs from a commercial broadcasting station or commercial broadcasting stations is being obtained in an area, but the Board is also of the opinion that those programs do not adequately serve the interests of the community in that area by reason of the fact that they are designed to serve primarily the different interests of a community in another area, the Board may recommend that a licence be granted for a broadcasting translator station to serve the needs of the community in that first-mentioned area. '(4) One of the conditions of the licence for a broadcasting translator station shall be that the station is operated only for the reception and transmission of the programs of a specified commercial broadcasting station or of specified commercial broadcasting stations and that those programs are retransmitted without alteration. '(5) The establishment, erection, maintenance and use of a broadcasting translator station in pursuance of a licence under this section shall be deemed not to be a contravention of the  Wireless Telegraphy Act  1905-1973 or of the regulations under that Act. '. 
Clause 8. 
Section 105B of the Principal Act is amended- 
by omitting from sub-section (2) the word 'The '(first occurring) and substituting the words 'Subject to subsection (2a), the'; 
by inserting after sub-section (2) the following subsection: '(2a) Where the Board is of the opinion that satisfactory reception of television programs from a commercial television station or commercial television stations is being obtained in an area, but the Board is also of the opinion that those programs do not adequately serve the interests of the community in that area by reason of the fact that they are designed to serve primarily the different interests of a community in another area, the Board may recommend that a licence be granted for a television translator station to serve the needs of the community in the firstmentioned area.'; and 
by adding at the end of sub-section (3) the words 'or of specified commercial television stations and that those programs are re-transmitted without alteration'. 
Clause 13. 
Section 130a of the Principal Act is amended- 
a ) by omitting sub-section ( 1 ); 
by omitting from paragraph (a) of sub-section (3) the word 'or'; 
by adding at the end of sub-section (3) the following paragraphs: '(c) in a case where the Board is of the opinion that satisfactory reception of television programs is being obtained in the area, the Board is also of the opinion that- 
those programs do not adequately serve the interests of the community in that area by reason of the fact that they are designed to serve primarily the different interests of a community in another area; and 
satisfactory reception of television programs that would adequately serve the interests of the community in that area could be obtained in that area by the means to be authorized by the permit; or '(d) in the opinion of the Board, the use of the means to be authorized by the permit to provide a television service in that area is necessary or desirable for aesthetic or environmental reasons. '; and 
by inserting after sub-section (5) the following subsection: '(6) Such fees as are prescribed are payable in respect of the grant of a permit, or the transfer of a permit, under this section. '. 
Schedule. 
FORMAL AMENDMENTS 
The following provisions of the Principal Act are amended by omitting any number expressed in words that is used, whether with or without the addition of a letter, to identify a section of that Act or of another Act, and substituting that number expressed in figures: 
Sections 4(1) (definition of 'Commissioner'), 17 (3), 22, 28a, 45(1), 46a, 56 (1) (g), 78 (3) (a), 78a, 87a (1), 90B ( 1 ), 90c (3) and (4) (a), 90D ( 1 ), 90f (3) (b), 90h, 90J(4)(a), 90L (1)(a). 90m (a) and (c), 90q, 91 (2) (d), 91a(1), 92(2), (3)(a)(i) and (3)(b), 92a ( 1 ), 92c (2) (b) and (4) (b), 92E, 92f (4) (a) and (9), 92o(l)(a) and (5)(b), 92H(a) and (c), 92k, 105a, 105l, 108(1), 132 (1a). 
The following provisions of the Principal Act are amended by omitting the words 'of this Act', 'of this Part', 'of this section', 'of this sub-section' and 'of this paragraph' (wherever occurring): 
Sections 4(1) (definition of 'Commissioner'), 16 (2), 22, 27d (3), 28a, 43 ( 1 ), 45 ( 1 ), 46 (4), 46a, 48a (4) and (5), 56 ( 1) (g), 58 (6), 7 ib (3), 74 (3), 78 (3) (a), 78a, 87a(1), 90a(1) and (5), 90b(1), 90c(3), 90d(1), 90F (3)(b), 90H, 90j(4)(a) and (6), 90k (4), 90l ( l ) (a), ( 1 ) (b), ( 1 ) (d), (3) and (4), 90m (a) and (c), 90q, 91 (2) (d) and (4) (a) (iii), 91aa (1) and (5), 9lA(l), 92(2), 92a(1), 92c(2)(b), 92e, 92f(3), (4) (a), (6) and (9), 92fa(4), 92() (1)(a), (l)(b), (1) (d), (3) and (4), 92h (a) and (c), 92k, 105a, 105L, 108 ( l ), 1 1 7a (3), (5) and (8), 132 ( 1a). 
The Principal Act is further amended as set out in the following table: 

<graphic href="100131197608186_52_40.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="100131197608186_52_41.jpg"></graphic>

-Is the motion seconded? 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Is the motion seconded? 
-Order! It being 10.30 p.m., in accordance with the order of the House of 18 February 1976, I shall report progress. 
Progress reported. 
-I think the honourable member should speak now because he is actually opposing the amendment to the clause as it has been moved. 
The amendment proposed by the Government limits the size of the Commission to a chairman and not fewer than 4 nor more than 6 commissioners. It also allows for up to two of those members to be permanent heads of Australian Government departments. It is obvious that the Government, when making recent appointments to the Commission under the principal Act, did so in the light of its proposed change. As a result of those appointments, States such as Queensland, South Australia, Tasmania and the Northern Territory are not represented on the Commission. It is essential that representatives of those States be appointed to the Commission so that areas of the National Estate which exist in those States, and which in many instances are unique, can be protected properly and the views of the people of those States as well as of their governments canvassed. Last year the then Opposition, now the Government, was quite adamant that all States should be represented on the Commission. In fact, it moved an amendment to the original proposal which stated: 
not more than one commissioner from each State nominated by the Minister after consultation with the appropriate Minister of the State concerned; and 
not more than six other commissioners. 
That proposal was put forward in the belief that all States should be guaranteed at least one representative on the Commission. The spirit of the proposal was accepted by the Labor Government, and in fact it was our intention to appoint to the Commission representatives of all States and Territories. The Cabinet of the day recommended that a commission be set up which was representative of all States and Territories, including the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. That recommendation was not ratified by the Executive Council before 1 1 November, when the Labor Government was sacked by the Governor-General. 
The Opposition believes that this course should be followed, and hopes that the Government will see the wisdon of it. I ask the Government to give thought to leaving intact this section of the principal Act. Last year the Liberal and National Country Parties appeared to accept the Heritage Commission as a unique and innovative experiment for this country. They recognised that a commission setting out to do what was intended for this Commission must be different in structure from the normal type of commission. The Government now is arguing that a smaller and less representative commission will be a more efficient and more meaningful advisory body. In relation to almost all other areas of government the Labor Party would agree with that philosophy, but in this area it cannot agree. I think that the Government's attitude to the size of the Commission and its nature shows a basic lack of understanding of the nature and type of problems faced in preserving our heritage. 
Finally, probably the most important reason why the size of the Heritage Commission should be left at that proposed in the original Act is that the Commission, by its very nature needs to have representatives of all interests. The Commission must provide an opportunity for advice on the policies for the National Estate that come forward jointly as a partnership between the private and the public sectors. As I said, we conferred with all States. The Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development knows that his Government has not conferred with all States. I have been informed by my State counterparts in South Australia and New South Wales that they were not consulted in regard to the Government's appointment of commissioners. I think that the Government should have at least consulted the State Ministers. I have no criticisms of any but one of those who have been appointed by this Government. I think that probably all but one may have been appointed by the Labor Government. I doubt whether the lady from Western Australia who has been appointed would have been appointed by our Government, but my information is that she is very well qualified, that she will do a fine job and that she has the Heritage Commission and the National Estate at heart. I have no opposition to and no criticism of the appointment of David Yencken as  chairman-  in fact Labor appointed him- or of Vincent Serventy from New South Wales, Professor Mulvaney from the Australian Capital Territory, Margaret Fielman from Western Australia, Professor Blaney from Victoria, or Reg Walker who is a very old friend and a trusted and respected colleague and who is federal secretary of the National Trust. But I have a criticism in regard to one commissioner,  Mr E.  K. Sinclair of Victoria.  Mr Sinclair  is known to have been closely associated with the Liberal Party for many years. I believe there should be criticism of that appointment. He was a former editor of the Melbourne  Age - 
-In regard to the point of order, I think that as the honourable member is commenting on the Commission itself the Standing Orders would not prevent him from commenting on certain aspects relating to it, such as the appointment of commissioners. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 Mr STREET (Corangamite-Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations)- I said on that occasion, in answer to that question, that the Federated Ironworkers Association or one of its branches was amongst the unions which had fined members as a consequence of working on the day of the Medibank strike. I am now informed that no such action was taken by any branch of the FLA over the Medibank strike. 
-Order! I inform the honourable member for Bradfield that at the moment the question is: 'That clauses 6 to 13 be agreed to'. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clause 14 agreed to. 
Clause 15 (Reports by Ombudsman). 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection leave is granted.  (The documents read as follows)- 
-I suggest that the honourable member for Denison wait to make his speech when he is called upon during this Budget debate. 
-Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted.  ( The document read as follows)- 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted.  (The table read as follows)- 

<graphic href="100131197608260_32_2.jpg"></graphic>

-No point of order arises. The honourable member has a perfect right to raise in this debate a matter concerning something that was said about him as a member of the House. I call the honourable member for Grey. 
In 1972, the last year of office of the former LiberalCountry Party Government, there was a loss of 3.7 per cent of working days available. In 1973, the first year under the Labor Government, the figure increased to 6.71 per cent. In 1974 it was 7.88 per cent. In 1975, the year that the policy that gave such a tremendous boost to the industry was brought down, the one that is being condemned now, it rose to 12.43 per cent in the Whyalla shipyards. 
I have had an opportunity to check out these figures. I have come up with some figures which are quite different from the ones cited by the honourable member yesterday. I do not know whence he obtained his figures. However, I will cite the figures that I have. There are 2 years in which the man hours lost are high. However, perhaps I can give some percentages. From November 1970 to November 1971 the man hours lost in the Whyalla shipyards was 43 hours per worker. That works out to approximately 2.4 per cent of the available work time. From November 1971 to November 1972, there were 28 man hours lost per worker, or approximately 1.5 per cent. From November 1 972 to November 1 973- the year in which there was a big disputethere were 74 man hours lost per worker which is 4. 1 per cent. From November 1 973 to November 1974- again at the end of 1973 there was a major dispute- 1 10 man hours per worker were lost equalling a loss of 6. 1 per cent of the available work time. 
During the period November 1974 to November 1975, 34 man hours were lost per worker, representing an average of 1.9 per cent of the available work time. From November 1975 until July 1976, 8 man hours per worker were lost. That is not a full year period, but on [&gt;resent indications the percentage of work time lost would be about 1 per cent. Honourable members can see that the figures cited by the honourable member for Evans last night are completely wrong. If honourable members wish to check the source of my information, I inform them that the figures were taken out by the Statistics Group of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Library and are based on figures that are kept in relation to industrial disputes. I feel that those figures knock the bunkum that the honourable member for Evans tried to put over last night concerning the level of industrial disputes that occur at the Whyalla shipyards. 
In the few minutes I have left in which to speak, I wish to refer to another matter. A few weeks ago the Leader of the Opposition in the South Australian Parliament came to Whyalla, which is in my electorate. He issued a statement as to how he would fight like hell for the Whyalla shipyards. I issued a counter statement in which I said: 'If you want a fight like hell get to Canberra post haste and fight your Liberal Party and Country Party colleagues '. 
We have heard the story about someone coming in like a lion and going out like a lamb. An article in today's Adelaide  Advertiser  stated: 
The Leader of the South Australian Opposition  (Dr Tonkin)  said last night he was satisfied the Federal Government could not give the shipbuilding industry any more money. 
This is another example of the lion and the lamb, of people who always have so much to say. I am sorry that my time is running out. However, I want to point out what the present Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  had to say when he was in Opposition about what he considered to be the future of the Australian shipbuilding industry. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="100131197609214_25_0.jpg"></graphic>

-Pur- suant to statute I present the annual reports and financial statements of the Commonwealth Banking Corporation, the Commonwealth Trading Bank of Australia, the Commonwealth Savings Bank of Australia and the Commonwealth Development Bank of Australia, together with the Auditor-General's reports thereon, for the year ended 30 June 1976. 
-In accordance with standing order 226, the Committee will first consider Schedule 2 of the Bill. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I point out that up until this moment the honourable member for Denison has not taken any further the debate that has just been concluded in Committee. At the present moment the honourable member for Denison is in order. 
-The honourable member for Port Adelaide is not in order in quoting completely what was said in a debate in the Senate. I suggest that the honourable member for Port Adelaide may quote from the Senate  Hansard  remarks which are relevant to the matter he is raising. I suggest that the honourable member should now show the relevance of the quotation. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-In accordance with the order of the House of 18 February I propose the question: 
That the House do now adjourn. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection leave is granted. 
The records will show that when the Labor Party took over and I became the first Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, one of the first things I asked for was a competent administrative system to do these things. Therefore, I hope that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner),  the Public Service Board and the whole apparatus will get to work to strengthen organisation from one end of Australia to die other. I think that the consistent leaking of the contents of the Hay report with a view to creating political atmospherics before the Budget was dangerous, damaging and irresponsible. 
I do not like these cliches and I hope that the Minister will stop using them because after all he does not perform too badly at question time. When questions are hurled at him, he comes back succinctly, probably in great error often, but still with a proper appreciation of the English language. Why do we have to use these terms about the fears of excessive administrative costs and other expenses associated with consultants, poor planning, syphoning off, or some would say ripping off? Why do we have to use these terms continuously? The public, whose money it is we are spending, is concerned to see that Aboriginal people are benefiting from this expenditure, but we have consistent implications or inferences that the money is being wasted. 
Obviously in a huge program scattered across a continent such as ours this expenditure will not all work effectively. I saw 3 Aboriginal housing projects last week- one in which the houses had been constructed pretty effectively by the State Housing Commission. This may have created new social problems. I saw another which was conducted by a mission and in it the people were perhaps getting more value for their money by constructing the projects on the spot and there was another in which the money had apparently vanished without much advantage. We saw this when the Labor Party became the Government. I have with me a document I wrote to the Department of Aboriginal Affairs on 29 August 1973. It asks: 
What arrangements have been made to establish an Internal Audit' or similar section to advise organisations on accounting methods and oversight financial procedures to ensure observation of the Treasury direction? 
This was in line with what the Minister said. I will not detain the House any longer. I wanted to ask that honourable members cease using Aboriginal affairs as a stalking horse for politics. It is sad that it has taken 10 months for this Government to get back to where it was when it was elected and that it had to use these political opportunities to score off the most deprived and depressed people in Australia. 
Honourable members in this House should travel. They should go to Broome, for instance, and look at the disgraceful and degrading conditions in which a hundred or so families live there. I could give them a list of dozens and dozens of these situations. Eventually, there is no solution unless it comes from the Aboriginal people themselves. As my colleague the honourable member for Hughes has pointed out, one of the great comforts to those of us who have taken a part in this operation for many years- the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  has a distinguished record in this- is the remarkable increase in the articulate capacity and the eloquence in expression of the Aboriginal men and women. Twenty years ago we could not get any Aboriginal people on a platform to speak but now, to their great advantage, it is very difficult to get them to stay silent. 
I believe strongly that it is the Aboriginal people who must be brought more effectively into administration. Somebody referred to short memories a while ago. I will remind them. I wrote this paper in 1967 after a referendum. It was entitled: 'If I Were a Minister'. Inter alis, it says this: 
I believe that very little will be achieved of a permanent effective nature until we have developed the self-reliance of the Aboriginal people themselves. That is that more of them are taking part in the administration of Aboriginal affairs and that their voice is continually heard and continually applied. 
Honourable members will find that that was the effort I put in as Minister. I hope the present Minister will carry on the tradition established by the Labor Party when in Government. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering these 3 measures? 
-I propose the question: 
That the House do now adjourn. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The document read as follows- 3.6.3 Assistance to commercial theatre 
This inquiry originated from representations by commercial theatre organisations for Commonwealth Government assistance. According to the Australia Council it received a number of applications from commercial theatre organisations for assistance. The Council said that it was inclined to feel that general assistance might be warranted to commercial managements and because of this a reference to the Commission was sought The Council said that the Commission seemed a more appropriate organisation than it for analysing the requirements of the commercial industry and the merits of claims for assistance. 
If his own perceptions are so imperfect, he might at least have been expected to have been advised that Thai students have been quoted on television and in the newspapers in this country voicing their fears about the change of regime. They have telephoned my office and I find it hard to believe they have not also contacted his office or his Department. His air of wounded innocence tonight was all the more reprehensible because 6 days ago I asked him a related question on the subject of the coup in Thailand. It concerned the Government's attitude to potential refugees. He refused to answer that part of my question which dealt with the Thai refugee problem. Twice in one week he has refused to acknowledge that a serious humanitarian problem faces the Australian Government as a result of the  Thai putsch. 
The Government's record on this entire question is deplorable. The sole reference by the Government to this major upheaval in Thailand -one of our closest neighbours, one of the few democratically elected governments in Asia, and formerly an ally of the Liberal-Country Party Government in the Vietnam War- the only reference by this Government has been a facetious question by the member for Kennedy to the Minister for Defence designed to elicit a crude and tasteless joke at the expense of the people of Thailand. Let me now contrast this shameful performance with the record of my Government when faced with a similar situation concerning students from Vietnam and Cambodia last year. On 3 April I announced that students from those 2 countries would be allowed to defer their return home. On 2 May, we announced that a special fund had been established to provide living allowances for Vietnamese and Cambodian tertiary students in Australia. The allowances operated separately from the tertiary education assistance scheme. On 1 1 November, the Minister for Labor and Immigration in the elected Government,  Senator James  McClelland, announced that government sponsored students from Vietnam and Cambodia were eligible for resident status whether or not they had completed their studies- a significant departure from previous practice. Our record was marked by understanding, compassion and action. The Fraser Government's record is one of ignorance, insensitivity and indifference. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the 5 measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
-The discussion is now concluded. 
-I have received advice from the Leader of the Opposition that he has nominated  Mr Bryant  to be a member of the Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation to fill the vacancy caused by the resignation of  Mr Young. 
-On the point of order raised by the honourable member for Oxley, at the moment there is an amended Bill before the House. Therefore the flexibility of the honourable member who is speaking is increased a little because the Bill has been reported as amended. However, I suggest that the honourable member for Griffith keep his remarks short and as close to the Bill as possible. 
Question resolved in the Affirmative. 
BUI read a third time. 
-In accordance with the order of the House of 18 February 1 976I propose the question: 
That the House do now adjourn. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
-Is the amendment seconded? 
-I propose the question: 
That the House do now adjourn. 
Question put. 
-I have received a letter from the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  proposing that a definite matter of public importance be submitted to the House for discussion, namely: 
The Government's admission through the Treasurer's  Financial Times  speech last week that it has caused an unnecessary postponement in economic recovery. 
I call upon those members who approve of the proposed discussion to rise in their places. 

 More than the number of members required by the Standing Orders having risen in their places- 

-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Does the honourable member for Higgins desire the statement to be incorporated in  Hansard? 
-Is leave granted for the incorporation? 
He talked about the delivery of steel taking a long time and I would like to tell him what has happened to steel prices in this country. In 10 years they have come from the lowest to the highest in the world. Why has that happened? It has happened because wage demands have added to costs, including the cost of building ships. The honourable member for Grey denied by interjection that 3 yards closed down under Labor rule. I challenge him on that point. The fact is that 3 shipyards closed down under the Labor Government, and what did he do about that? He talked of red herrings. I would like to suggest that he take the message back to the people of Newcastle and tell them his proposals for saving the shipbuilding industry; but he has no proposals at all. I consider the Prime Minister's offer to be a generous one. We have said that we will consider the submissions from the Australian Council of Trade Unions and from both the South Australian and the New South Wales governments and will draw the threads together to make a decision. We can do no more than we are doing. We have acted very responsibly. What we have done is completely contrary to the allegation in the matter of public importance raised by the Opposition and proves that the allegation is ill-founded, ill-timed and completely wrong. This Government is concerned; the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  is concerned. The Prime Minister has made an offer. A back bench committee has visited the yards. Did the Opposition ever have a back bench committee? We are concerned about people. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER  (Mr  Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The phrase used by the honourable member for Grayndler contained a general reference to members of parties standing at an election. A description was used. The only query I would have at the moment is that the honourable member for Grayndler implied that certain honourable members were worse than those people who were in j ackboots. I think that statement contains an implication that would be better withdrawn by the honourable member. I call the honourable member for Grayndler. 
I draw to the attention of the House what happened when this organisation tried to place an advertisement in the Australian Medical Association's Journal. The New South Wales Branch of the Australian Medical Association refused to publish this paid advertisement. It returned the advertisement and a cheque, with no explanation. It gave no explanation at all. The Australian Medical Association would do anything, one would think, to promote constructive and informed discussion of medical education in Australia. Apparently the Medical Association does not want to accept money to pay for the promotion of a journal which discusses something of importance and interest to all doctors. It has by this action done a bit to stifle and to restrict discussion on a very important subject. 

-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The document read as follows- 


<graphic href="101131197610214_75_8.jpg"></graphic>

We are short of liquid fuels in Australia but we have great supplies of black coal. Crude oil is diminishing throughout the world. No country can expect more than 30 years supply of petroleum. In Australia the life of our present petroleum is about 10 years. This is unless, of course, new petroleum finds are made. In Australia we have suitable heavy volatile coals from which crude oil can be distilled. This is a proposition which must be fully investigated and the sooner the better. The Americans are the leaders in this field. Their effort is still, for the most part, in the pilot plant, stage. Pilot plants typically process between five and 100 tonnes of coal a day. Next come the demonstration plants. As a rule these have a throughput of about 1000 tons a day and need to operate for about 3 years to ensure that the practicalities of the process are understood. Some idea of the cost and time involved in the evolution of conversion technology can be gleaned from the fact that in January 1975 the United States Department of Interior granted $US237m loan to a consortium of com. panies to build and operate a 2600 tonnes per day demonstration plant. The time span for this project is 8 years, including an operating period of 3  Vi  years. 
It can be seen that while it is desirable for this  liquefication to take place from coal, it is something for the future. It will not happen tomorrow. In Australia the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation is investigating the flash pyrolysis process which is one of the least difficult routes to liquefication. The market which CSIRO has in mind is ships' bunker fuel. Broken Hill Pty Co Ltd, a maligned company in this House, is examining the direct hydrogenation route to liquefication. During the course of this debate the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  created doubts about the restoration of sites by Utah Development Co. in the Bowen Basin. It is quite obvious that he has never been in sight of the open cuts in the Bowen Basin, because restoration by the Utah Development Co. is impeccable. The company is spending 5 times more than it is obliged to spend. The honourable member's opening remarks were to the effect that the coal levy was foisted on the company by the Treasury. He said it was discriminatory. This is an indication of one of two things: The Treasury does not know how to finance the economy of Australia or, alternatively, underestimates the determination of the previous Minister financially to torpedo the multinationals. 
The Right Honourable Douglas Anthony,  Deputy  Prime Minister and Minister for National Resources, while overseas in Great Britain and Hong Kong discussed the supply of coals to those markets. We have millions of tons of coal available for export. This Minister has done a splendid job in furthering the export of coal to Great Britain and in investigating the market in Hong Kong. Britain will have a shortage of hard coking coal in the early 1980s and needs to look now for contracts to meet that shortage. The Minister and his Department are maintaining a close watch upon developments which offer potential alternative sources of liquid fuels for Australian use. In July of this year a West German delegation, led by Professor KarlHeinz Imhausen of the Imhausen international company- one of the world's leading companies in the field of conversion- visited Australia. It was intended to undertake a joint AustralianWest German study of the economic feasibility of establishing a plant to produce about 2 million tonnes of motor spirit a year and also basic material. Australia with its limited known resources of petroleum must carefully investigate proposals of this type. The honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  has also mentioned that oil companies are interested in the coal deposits throughout the world. This is only natural because with the diminishing supply of petroleum they have to look for other sources of supply and one of them is the procurement of coal for liquefaction and also for energy. I support the Bill. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the 2 measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
-Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
.  At end of paragraph (b) omit 'and '. 
At end of clause add the following words and paragraph: "; and (d) by adding at the end thereof the following subsection: 
For the purposes of the application of the definition of "collegiate electoral system" in sub-section ( 1 ) in relation to an election for an office in an organisation, an electoral system that otherwise complies with that definition shall be deemed to comply with that definition notwithstanding that the persons comprising a body of persons by and from whom persons are elected at any stage subsequent to the first stage include persons (not exceeding in number 15 per centum of the total number of the body) who are the holders of offices entitling the holders to membership of that body (which may include the office to which the election relates) but are not  members  of that body by virtue of an election in accordance with that definition, being persons each of whom has held such an office (whether the one office or not) at all times since being elected to such an office under a collegiate electoral system, or a direct voting system, as defined in sub-section (1)'". 
In explanation of the second amendment, which is the substantive one, I point out to the Committee that in relation to the one-tier collegiate system of voting an unqualified requirement that persons elected by a college must also be elected from the members of that college can be disadvantageous to organisations. It can be disadvantageous because the higher office will in effect become a one-term office with possible loss of continuity of experienced management. 
It is no argument to say that the situation could be overcome by altering the organisation's rules; that is, by providing that such a person retain his position as delegate to the college. That would result, quite probably, in a conflict of interest. For example, the concern of a person who is Federal secretary should be for the national interests of his organisation and as a branch delegate his prime concern quite naturally would be to protect the interests of his home State branch. The fact is that an officer who holds office by virtue of his being a branch delegate on the electoral college which elects persons to that office could find himself under considerable pressure to prefer his home branch. For example, where a Federal secretary has to rely on election as a branch delegate as a prerequisite to retaining his position as Federal secretary, his energies might for understandable reasons be directed to seeing to the requirements of that branch, to the detriment of the organisation as a whole. 
Proposed new sub-section (5) of section 4 of the Act is designed to overcome these problems by allowing current office bearers- that is, the organisation's committee of management- to be members of the college which elects persons to those offices for the following term provided those office bearers do not constitute more than 15 per cent of the members of the college. Those office bearers must have been originally elected to those positions under a collegiate electoral system or a direct voting system as defined. Moreover, they must have held office- not necessarily the same office- continuously since being first elected to office. In the case of full-time officers the office bearers would be elected by and from a college, the members of which, excepting office bearers in the 15 per cent category must be elected directly by the appropriate sections of the rank and file. Subject to the same qualifications, part-time officers must be elected under a collegiate system based on elections to a college by direct vote of the appropriate sections of the rank and file. In brief, the object of this amendment is to ensure that, while preserving the right of continuity of experienced leadership in an organisation, the system does not of itself result in a college which can be self-perpetuating, by restricting the members who can be appointed by the college to 1 5 per cent of the membership. 
-The situation at the moment is that we are trying to work out what should happen with this Bill. In the circumstances the honourable member leading for the Opposition was given a certain latitude while the situation relating to the Bill was discussed; so we might allow the honourable member to continue for a period of time until we find out exactly where we are. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 2 to 8- by leave- taken together. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The document read as follows- 


<graphic href="101131197611091_46_3.jpg"></graphic>

No later information has been made available to the Parliament on these matters. I feel that they are relevant to any proper discussion of the legislation which is now before the chamber. The Government may care to give us some information on this matter at a later stage. 
The Minister has told us nothing about how it is expected that the increased penalties will provide better parking facilities at airports, other than to state in the concluding sentence of his second reading speech that some increase in revenue is expected along with cost savings. The motorist who has to take his motor vehicle to an airport will be slugged to provide additional revenue. That seems to be the only major purport of the Minister's speech. If parking is a problem at airports- I understand that it isbecause it is composed of both travellers out of the airport and people coming into the airport as distinct from visitors to airports, then surely the 
Government ought to be putting to the Parliament the proposals it has in mind; what parking stations are under way; whether it is proposed to have further parking stations constructed; what re-arrangement, if any, of traffic is under way; and whether holding areas can be built away from the airports outside Australian Government property. In short, some broad plan should be laid down in relation to this problem. 
If revenue is to be the issue I point out that only $64,000 was collected in 1974-75, so surely the collection of revenue should not be the prime factor in this legislation. There is a fixed number of vehicle spaces at an airport. We ought to be concerned about how we can make the best utilisation of that finite number of vehicle spaces. Again, in drawing attention to the lack of information from the Government in support of this legislation, I point out that no reference has been made to alternative methods of transport. Has consideration been given to bringing people to the airport? It used to be that airlines transported people and encouraged them to travel on buses from inner city terminals to the airport, but it seems that the utilisation of those vehicles has dropped off. The movement of people from the airport to their destinations is not provided for in any way at all. While revenue seems to be the key to this legislation, I noticed that in the Melbourne  Age  recently there was a statement that the Tullamarine car parking station was being let out to tender. The report stated that the Department could not afford to construct the parking station itself. I understand from my own inquiries that in some cases the Department lets out parking stations, and in other cases it operates the stations itself. A decision is usually made on the basis of which method provides the highest return. 
That matter too is very relevant to this debate, but there is no reference whatsoever to what is being done there. There is no reference to what is happening in Sydney. There is no reference to the facilities which could be provided for visitors to airports, and certainly a large number of people utilise airports. Back in 1960 when  Senator Paltridge  brought the principal Act before the Senate, he cited the relevant figures and said that 4000 to 5000 vehicles a day were visiting airports, as distinct from internal airport traffic. In the Minister's second reading speech there is no reference to such figures. There is no indication of what has happened since 1960. As I said earlier, that information is relevant. If the Department of Transport is to fulfil its broad policy of co-ordinating the modes of transport, then this is a matter relating to the urban public transport system. Is the urban public transport system designed to cater for airport traffic, or is it simply to be a matter of increasing the fines on parking meters, slugging the motorist another 150 per cent, and hoping that the whole problem will work itself out? 
As I mentioned a few moments ago, no reference has been made to the profitability of car parking stations. I do not know of any public information which would give a net result on what happens in parking stations. In a Senate Estimates Committee hearing recently this question was asked: 
What is the breakup of the income from parking fees at the major airports? 
The answer broke up the income into 2 categories, concessions and departmental, and the total concession revenue for 1975-76 was shown as $832,883. There is no indication that that was net revenue. I have since learned that that was the net return to the Department. It is interesting to note that $543,000- well over half of that amount- came from Sydney airport parking concessions. In the departmental column a figure of $1.37m is shown for Melbourne. The total of that column is $1.7m, and the impression is that it is net revenue, but it is not. It is gross revenue. That is the difficulty involved in trying to determine the net return from services provided on the ground. The Minister might be able to provide some information on that. 
I move one stage further to the potential impact of these proposals on car rental firms. Since 1960, and particularly since 1969 when the Avis contract was let, the car rental industry has expanded considerably. I understand that quite a deal of congestion at airports relates to people utilising cars they have rented. The use of cars in conjunction with airports and air travel is very widely publicised throughout the nation, and I think we are all aware of the fairly active public discussion going on between the competing companies in this field. One could not be misunderstood in pointing out that one of the results which will flow from the increased penalties provided in this legislation will be that some of the firms which do not have access to authorised parking areas at airports Will have their opportunity to provide a range of car rental services at airports reduced because of the increased penalties. I am not saying whether that is right or wrong. What I am saying is that this is the time to have a look at the problem because a major part of the car rental problem revolves around the utilisation of flydrive. 
As I have said, the wide publicity that is given nationally to flying to a destination, hiring a vehicle when the destination is reached and then returning the vehicle to the airport has resulted in increased demand and in expansion of the industry. The only figures which I could find relating to this matter are contained in replies to questions asked at a Senate Estimates Committee hearing. In reply to a question asking for receipts from Avis last year and the estimates for this year, the departmental representative stated: 
Avis paid the Government $465,607 in fees for the year 1975-76. It is difficult to predict an estimate for next year in the present aviation economic climate. The figure could exceed $0.5m. The figures are partly related to passenger traffic, but Avis could be expected to propose that much of the revenue related to Avis marketing and standards of service. 
That goes back to the point I made earlier that as a result of the promotions that have been conducted, the market has expanded and this has added to the congestion problem at airports. Brisbane airport is one airport which has a severe deficiency in parking facilities. Certainly there are going to be some very unhappy motorists after this legislation goes through both Houses when they realise the impact of the new penalties. 
The increase in utilisation of existing facilities ought to be the objective of this legislation and not the increase in revenue which will surely arise from the increased penalties. I cannot determine the Government's objective, but I believe it relates to an increase in revenue. No information is available on the costs associated with provision of the services; and no information is available on the number of officers involved in policing the parking areas at airports and in removing vehicles under the provisions of the existing Act. The only estimate on revenue for the current year is related to the 3 activities of airport rentals and parking station concessions and totals $2 1.3m. This revenue is part of the whole subject of the aviation industry cost recovery program. I have made this point before and I will continue to make it: While we have secret inquiries and reports about the aviation industry or any aspect of transport, which are not tabled in the Parliament, there cannot be properly informed discussion in the community on the pros and cons of what ought to be done. The McNeil Committee has been looking at publicly owned transport enterprises; the Administrative Review Committee and the Aviation Industry Review Committee all have had something to say about and have some interest in the aviation cost recovery program. I put to the Minister that the tabling of such reports in the Parliament is long overdue so that the information can be examined by everybody and not just be privy to those people who are concerned in the industry. 
Ansett Airlines of Australia, Trans-Australia Airlines and Qantas Airways Ltd are the 3 bodies which constitute the Aviation Industry Review Committee, yet no information is available to the public on which the Committee bases its recommendations to the Government. The Parliament is entitled to adequate information on the Department 's activities and it is entitled to adequate information on aviation cost recovery. 
The concept of multiple offences which is brought into being in this legislation is something which to my knowledge does not occur in any other State. In this particular case, where the permitted period is half an hour and a motorist leaves his vehicle longer than the permitted period, a situation could develop where somebody who stays for  2Vi  hours in a half hour zone could then be charged with 4 separate offences. Little publicity and little explanation have been given to that. In fact no explanation has been given by the Minister other than to say that there will be increased efficiency in the Department's administration. That is not good enough. The motorist needs to know what is happening. 
The staying period at parking meters at airports, particularly at Sydney airport, is IS minutes compared with the usual staying period of half an hour for motor vehicles which are parked at meters in the city. Honourable members can appreciate that it will be very easy for motorists to think that the parking meters at airports allow them to park for one hour or half an hour. This will happen in many cases if the motorists do not read the fine print on the front of the meter. What should be taking place along with the aviation industry review inquiry should be an investigation of the adequacy of parking spaces at airports as well as an investigation of the alternative means of transporting people to and from airports. I separate those people who are actually air travellers and those who are visitors to airports. The last year has seen a decline in the utilisation of domestic airlines and the concept of air traffic has, as I have said, come to embody both car usage and air travel. This legislation provides another barrier in the way of increased utilisation of domestic airlines. 
I want to deal now with the dictatorial and high handed confiscation and disposal provisions of this Bill. Sub-section 9 (3) of the Act already empowers the towing away of vehicles. This can be done where a parking infringement is being committed and either the driver cannot be contacted after taking reasonable steps, or if he can be contacted, he refuses to move the vehicle. Sub-clause 6 (b) of the Bill proposes to add seven new sub-sections to section 9 of the Act providing a procedure for disposing of vehicles which have been towed away. The procedure involves notifying the owner that the vehicle has been towed away and that it may be sold if it is not reclaimed and the cost of its removal and storage paid. It provides for the inviting of tenders for purchase and the selling or disposal of the vehicle. The inviting of tenders is not an invariable part of the procedure. Proposed paragraph (6) (d) permits the disposal of the vehicle as the Secretary thinks fit if, in his opinion, it has no commercial value, I emphasise the words 'if, in his opinion'. 
Proposed sub-section 9 (7) will authorise the Secretary to dispose of a vehicle as he thinks fit where no tender is received. Under proposed sub-section 9(8) the person who acquires a towed away vehicle as a result of the proposed statutory procedure is given a clear title to it. Any rights of financiers against the vehicle will be extinguished. What of the rights of the owner of the vehicle? It could well be that the owner still has a residue on the vehicle. I could see a situation where the owner is paying for a vehicle that has been disposed of by the Department and he is precluded from having any rights in respect of the vehicle. That owner could be paying off to a finance company an amount of money for something he has not got. Clause 7 of the Bill proposes to insert a section 9a in the Act giving immunity from action for loss or damage arising during or after the towing away of a vehicle. 
Neither of these provisions under sections 6 and 7 makes an exception in the case of vehicles stolen or used other than under the control of owners. While section 8 provides that these circumstances provide a defence against fines being levied on the owners, the Bill as drafted makes it possible for a vehicle to be stolen, or used in an unauthorised way, parked illegally in an airport and then be, firstly, damaged or lost by an officer of the Department when removing it, without a right to sue for remedies or damage or loss and, secondly, disposed of at a price suitable to the Department which may involve substantial loss on the market value of the vehicle. There are no procedures for an independent valuation of the vehicle in any circumstances. The Secretary's right of discretion in this matter could well give rise to suggestions that a racket in the disposal of vehicles at some later stage could develop. 
In short, the provisions of the Bill are dictatorial and heavy handed. The penalties are onerous. The Minister has not in any reasonable way justified to the Parliament support for these measures. In his second reading speech the Minister denied to the Parliament essential and relevant information. We have no indication of the Government's policy in respect of catering for motorists at airports. One would expect that in this area the Government would be trying to make things easier for people utilising airports rather than using airports as a source of raising revenue. Under these circumstances the Opposition is opposed to the legislation. 
-May I interrupt for just a moment. I think the AttorneyGeneral should ask for leave to move all the amendments together; then, after leave is granted, the Attorney-General may talk about any amendment he likes. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
I inform the House that the Committee has considered this request and has agreed under section la of its terms of reference to undertake an inquiry into the subject. Owing to commitments on current inquiries the Committee cannot undertake this investigation immediately but anticipates that it will be able to do so early in the coming year. The terms of this petition open up a very wide subject and the Committee will be shortly determining its strategy for the conduct of the inquiry. 
-Is leave granted for proposed new clauses to be moved together? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
Proposed new clauses agreed to. 
Clause 3. 
1 ) Section 35 of the Principal Act is repealed and the following section substituted: 
"35.(1) . . . 
"(4)  Sub-section (3) does not allow an appeal as of right to be brought where the only ground of appeal concerns the assessment of the amount of any damages in an action for damages for death or personal injury. "(5 ) This section has effect subject to any special provision made by an Act other than this Act, whether passed before or after the commencement of this section, preventing or permitting appeals from the Supreme Courts of the States in particular matters. 
Amendment (by  Mr Ellicott)  agreed to: 
Omit sub-section  (4)  and substitute the following subsection:  " '(4)  An appeal shall not be brought from a judgment referred to in sub-section (3) on a ground that relates to the quantum of any damages in respect of death or personal injury unless the High Court has given special leave to appeal on that ground. ' '. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
Clause 2. 
This Act shall be deemed to have come into operation on 1 June 1976. 
Clause 3. 
Sections 13 and 14 of the Principal Act are repealed and the following section is substituted: '13.(1) '(6) An additional annual allowance at the rate of $250 per annum is payable to the senior Judge of the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory appointed under sub-section 7(1) of the  Australian Capital Territory Supreme Court Act  1 933. 
I move: 
1 ) Omit clause 2 and substitute the following clause: "2. (1) Subject to sub-section (2), this Act shall be deemed to have come into operation on 1 June 1 976. "(2) Sections 3a and 5 shall come into operation on the day on which this Act receives the Royal Assent. ". 
In clause 3, after proposed sub-section (6) insert the following sub-section: " '(6a) Sub-section (6) does not have effect on or after the day on which a person is appointed to be the Chief Judge of the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory.". 
) After clause 3, insert the following new clause: "3a. After section 13 of the Principal Act the following sections are inserted in Part IV: ' 14. The provisions of sub-sections 13 (2), (3), (4) and (5) do not apply to a person who is a Judge of the Federal Court of Australia. ' 1 5. In respect of a judicial office specified in column 1 of Schedule 4- 
the rate per annum of the salary applicable to the office is the rate per annum specified in column 2 of that Schedule in relation to the office; 
the rate per annum of the annual allowance applicable to the office is the rate per annum specified in column 3 of that Schedule in relation to the office; and 
the rate per day of the travelling allowance applicable to the office is the rate per day specified in column 4 of that Schedule in relation to the office. '16. (1) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Act but subject to sub-sections (2) and (3), a Judge of the Federal Court of Australia who holds office by virtue of an appointment that took effect while he was a Judge (including the Chief Judge) of any other court or courts created by the Parliament shall, while he continues to hold office both as a Judge of the Federal Court of Australia and as a Judge (including the Chief Judge) of that other court or of any of those other courts, be remunerated with the salary and annual allowance to which he is from time to time entitled as a Judge of the other court or courts, and, if he continues to be a Judge of the Federal Court of Australia after he no longer holds any other judicial office referred to in this sub-section, other than an office as an additional Judge of the Supreme Court of a Territory or as a Judge of the Supreme Court of an external Territory, he shall receive such salary and annual allowances as are applicable to the office held by him as a Judge of the Federal Court of Australia. '(2) In the case of a Judge of the Federal Court of Australia to whom sub-section ( 1 ) applies, if the salary or annual allowance to which he would be entitled as a Judge of that Court if that sub-section were not applicable exceeds the salary or annual allowance, as the case may be, by which he is remunerated in accordance with that sub-section, he shall receive, in respect of his office as a Judge of that Court an additional amount by  way of  salary or annual allowance, as the case may be, equal to the excess. '(3) Where sub-section (1) applies to a Judge of the Federal Court of Australia who also holds the office of Chief Judge of the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory or of the Supreme Court of the Northern Territory of Australia, sub-section (2) does not apply, but he shall, while he continues to hold both those offices, receive, in respect of his office as a Judge of the Federal Court of Australia, in addition to the salary and annual allowance by which he is remunerated in accordance with subsection ( 1 ), salary at the annual rate of $2,500. '. ". 
After clause 4, add the following new clause: "5. The Principal Act is amended by adding at the end thereof the following Schedule: 

<graphic href="101131197611102_50_4.jpg"></graphic>

These amendments are designed to put into the Bill before the Committee the salaries of the new Chief Judge of the Federal Court of Australia and of the judges of that Court. Honourable members will recall that the Government will be establishing the office of Chief Judge of each of the Territory Courts, and this Bill will have the effect of fixing the salary of the Chief Judge of each of those Courts. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the 8 measures? 
-The honourable member for Melbourne commented that the honourable member for La Trobe was speaking to the Minister. I think the House is prepared to accept what the honourable member for La Trobe has said and that he was talking to the Minister about a completely different matter. The honourable member for Melbourne should continue his remarks on the Bill. 
In regard to Christmas Island, however, there has been a sleight of hand trick played on the people and a secretive attitude has been adopted so that we cannot really get to the gist of what is going on there in respect of profits, the exploitation that is rife on the island with people duping individuals and playing Malays against Singaporeans or whatever labour is available, with others putting their fingers in the bickie barrel and with inspectors being charged with breaches of the award. These matters now are out in the open. If for the next 20 years we are to have that sort of administration it is high time we had an inquiry into it. If we are to have protection for Australian workers against exploitation by people who breach the award deliberately to the extent that they steal money from individuals, it is high time we considered our position. We have to consider what we are to do during the next 20 years. We have to consider the near future also in determining what we should do from here on. 
There is the related matter of portability. Why has the small island of Nauru found phosphate mining a much more profitable venture than Christmas Island? Per head of population there is no comparison for Nauru is one of the world's richest communities. There is investment in that country amounting to millions of dollars. It has secured its future. But why should the Christmas Islanders be treated differently? Why should they not be able to secure their future? Of course, we really do not know whether the Christmas Island Phosphate Commission and the British Phosphate Commission have not done as well out of Christmas Island phosphate as the 
Nauruan people have done out of Nauruan phosphate. The whole financial operation of those commissions is shrouded in secrecy. That is one of the problems. If an inquiry is justifiable on no other grounds it is certainly justifiable on that one. I believe that the Parliament should know just what is going on. The whole deal ought to be unfolded here. We all ought to know what is going on and who is reaping the benefit of the exploitation of which I have made mention. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! I suggest that interjections cease. I also suggest that the honourable member for Melbourne not answer any interjections. 
Thirdly, an inquiry needs to be held into management-worker relations, which is the very point that I made earlier. One of the most important periods for which we are to take responsibility in relation to the implementation of this agreement is the period during which the workers are going to be at the mercy of the individuals who run the Christmas Island phosphate operations. 
Finally, a number of sundry issues might properly be included within such an inquiry's terms of reference. There have been reports that the British Phosphate Commission has continued to bring to Australia phosphate which contains high cadmium contamination and which the Japanese refused to accept some 5 years ago. There is agitation to have the financial details of the British Phosphate Commission's trade store on Christmas Island investigated and the results of the investigation made available to interested parties. What is there to hide? Why should we not have a look at this situation if we are going to take the terms of this agreement unto ourselves? The honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  would charge about $2.80 to haunt a house. The pulling of faces like those he is pulling now is probably his best performance so far. If he does not understand what it means to endeavour properly and adequately to protect workers when there is a dire need to do so, I will once again bow to your wishes,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  and discuss the matter with him later. I can explain in a moment just exactly what it is all about. 
The people of Christmas Island are being exploited. Those people, who are of different nationalities, are played one against the other. There is a difference between the pay of Europeans and that of the other nationalities who do not have the organised strength and the industrial muscle to protect themselves. Does the honourable member for Denison not think that it is our responsibility to ensure that that is done? The honourable member nods his acquiescence. I am very pleased that he does. We cannot move out just by the simple negotiation and signing of an agreement. The fine words contained in the agreement may be well principled. I agree that it is a well principled agreement. That is why we support the general principle. But it is another thing to police it. 
The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations has the same problems in relation to the general situation concerning industrial affairs in this country. The Government employs a number of arbitration agents to carry out the duty of ensuring that people are not exploited, although it cut down on the Budget provision for them and they have not been able to do their work properly. If they are not able to do it properly here, how the devil will they be able to do it in a place where individuals are open to that sort of exploitation? I ask the Minister to answer that question. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering both measures? As there is no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the 3 measures? 
-Order! It being 10.30 p.m., in accordance with the order of the House of 18 February 1976 I shall report progress. 
Progress reported. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The documents read as follows- certain section of land according to the travels of the ancestors). Like that You must tell them what we think and how this (our law) is the real thing. They (the Government) must act according to our word. You (talking to Gary Stoll) are passing on our word. That 's our word. 
ESROM: Aboriginal people are frightened of (respect) their own law. They're not frightened of (won't respect) white man's law. (Land Bill). I understand Aboriginal people's thinking. Aboriginal people will kill for tjurunga. I understand all that The thing is that that's not their place (referring back to the usurpers); they don't go to their father's place. They are only there under false pretences. If I go to Papunya and say, 'This is my father's country.' they 11 send me back, or they might kill me. 'You 11 have to go right back. ' If I don 't go they TI kill me. I have no right to talk that way. That's how they work. White man doesn't realise that. The words of various individuals are here. (Indicating the Land Rights Bill.) Words that are at variance with our law! They (white people) don't see all the various (Pmarakutwia) Land-owning bosses. No! By the method of voting they picked up ideas and turned them into this (Land Rights Bill). 
ELMORE: That's hard. He (the Land Council) doesn't know the law, doesn't know the Tjurunga. He should now look after the places or be the boss of the land? (Chuckle) Oh, no. That's wrong one! 
ESROM: With this law they're (white people) only making out. But our law has to be run by our law! Anyone can't come in later on and make a claim to land without my Kutungula mob (managers or custodians). He has to see them first There will be trouble hanging over his head. He will be called and a 'cleanskin stone' (unmarked) will be given him. 'All right, you reckon you're the owner (Pmarakutwia), you put the correct marks on it. You're the owner; we're only outside people.' Everybody is watching him. 
ELMORE: All present are watching him. 
ESROM: Everybody is watching him work. When he's finished he says, 'That's it. This is my dreaming, my tjurunga. ' Well, the others will say, 'They're the markings of a different place, those marks you have made on this stone. You must get killed. ' 

<graphic href="102131197611170_57_2.jpg"></graphic>

ELMORE: They tell him straight out. 
ESROM: That's it He put the marks of another place on that stone. He must die. They tell him, 'That's not yours; that 's not your place. We know your father's place but these are his markings, not those. You have borrowed the markings of somebody else's tjurunga. You must die! ' 

<graphic href="102131197611170_58_3.jpg"></graphic>

LUTHER: If we want something, say a truck for the group, they never do it. 
JACK: It never happens. 
LUTHER: They say: 'Yes, well see'. That's all. They think like this: it's Aboriginal people who are putting in this request, they shouldn't speak to the Council like that. There are all these kinds of concerns about which they should make a report to Government; they should tell Bob Huey, too. That's how it should be, since they are the ones who are trying to represent us. They didn't think about bores, that we had nothing. 
LUTHER: They make themselves boss. The Land Council. They didn't give us a truck. They should think. Something for us to use to cart things, like fire-wood, rubbish. Nothing! This is so. That time, they said that we were to see them; anybody wanting something should see them. That's wrong. 
YANKIE: They should be more ready to help. 
LUTHER: Yes, they'll have it easy (get what they want) once that law is set up. Only they haven't done anything for us. Yes, we see that clearly. 
LUTHER: Here's another point of concern? What if one of these old people dies- how are we going to take him or her to the cemetery? Do we carry him on our backs? 
JACK: That's right; we're suffering because we have nothing. 
LUTHER: That's another concern, see? 
JACK: Or if someone gets sick we can take them. 
LUTHER: We could take them to the hospital here. These are main concerns about which they should be thinking before anything else. 
LUTHER: No-one comes here. Only he (Rex) comes if the pump breaks down; you come, I'm saying, if the pump breaks down, to fix it. 
JACK: We appreciate that. 
LUTHER: We appreciate it. That's saved the plants from dying: now they're growing. 
JACK: With his (Rex's) help, we're eating the vegetables now. I feel really happy to be eating them now. 
YANKIE: I can't be boss over these two (Luther and Jack). I've got nothing to do with this garden and I can't be boss over it; that 's theirs. 
LUTHER: This is hard to accept. 
JACK: Very hard. 
LUTHER: This is what I think: There, in Alice Springs, the Land Council is boss, you see? If some mining begins, the Council will be boss, won't it? The Council is putting all the money in the bank there in Alice Springs. They don't give any to anyone, do they? (Don't give according to Aboriginal system of distribution.) They send it to a different group. As they see fit. They are clearly boss. They are standing there now. That 's how it is. That 's quite wrong. 
JACK: That's very bad. 
LUTHER: They haven't considered the fact that these people, the Mission, have been our father from the start, they were our father. That was right, you understand? Saved the people in the big droughts, the Mission. That 's how it is. 
LUTHER: That's their idea, but Aborigines think this way: They should give us our land, helping us in various ways, and then someone should be here to assist and look after us. That's what we think. That's strange what they're doing. That shouldn't be. They have deformed tongues. (They can't speak the language.) They are capable of saying things, but that's all. They can't speak with an understanding of Aboriginal law, or an understanding of Aboriginal kinship, they can't 
LUTHER: That's what they should learn, see? (Laughing). That's white people's, that's a white man's idea that they're bringing out. (More laughter). That's it, what they're doing there. But what Aborigines are thinking is, 'Why do those people there want to have the say to kick out people (Mission) who are valuable to us?' 
JACK: We should just live happily in peace. 
LUTHER: In peace, that's all. We should just create peace. 
JACK: Just like we are here now, in complete peace and harmony. 
LUTHER: I can see in this document that the Land Council is taking everything away from the people, see? It says it here in this Bill. We can see it all. We can see what they've written; it's there. 
If someone talks wrongly, tries to be boss over others, he 11 get killed. In town there he might leave the others and go off somewhere, go hunting, perhaps, while the others are sitting down, and then they kill him. 
That white man, those half-castes, can't come in, that's the law, Aboriginal law, tjurunga. 
When we read this document we feel as if we were naked. 
JACK: Yes, that's true. 
LUTHER: When we 're told what it all means. 
JACK: Naked; we feel as if we were naked. (Laughs a bit. ) Well, that 's our feeling. 
LUTHER: We're thinking: 'We're not the owners of the land ', (according to this Bill); that's how it seems to us. 
JACK: Just our balls showing (an idiom meaning 'We'll be left with absolutely nothing'), that's what it's like. 
When they held the first meetings and the big discussions took place we were really pleased. They gave us some money and the Government helped us and we really appreciated this. 
According to that Bill we 'd say we were naked; well, that 's our feeling. 
LUTHER: We can see that clearly. 
JACK: We can't be pleased with this. We were pleased before because we thought . . . 
LUTHER: (Interrupting): We should have told them this in the beginning, hey? Right at the start we should have told them, pushing them out right at the start, see? 
We are not getting our land. 
They are putting a railway-crossing (blocking our way) by putting this Land Council here. 
JACK: They're making us naked; they're really harming us. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

For Attention:  Senator B.  Kilgariff 
Copy of telegram sent today 2 1 October 1976 59: 
To: Minister for Aboriginal Affairs 
This is my thought and the other Aboriginal men stop we are not satisfied land trusts go to anyone I am land trust myself according to my law stop Please we want you to come to us on Thursday to talk about this matter stop We want to see you come and talk with us stop  Mr Eli  Rubuntja and we other men stop We are leaders of Aboriginal people stop We want to see our land rights in our own land stop 
Signed- 
Colin Malananka, Hermannsburg 
Eli Rubuntja, Alice Springs 
Paulus Wiljunka, Maryvale 
Immanuel Rutjinama, Napperry 
Eric Pananka, Ti Tree 
Manarie Armstrong, Hermannsburg 
Conrad Raberaba, Hermannsburg 
William Ungwanka, Hermannsburg 
Davey Inkamala, Alcoota 
Leo Tjukintji, Docker River 
Sam Pjakamara, Papunya 
Trevor Wantama, Papunya 
Ginger Kamara, Papunya 
Nahassem Ungwanaka, Hermannsburg 
David Tommy, Docker River 
Kanya, Papunya 
Peter Bullah,  Mr Ebenezer 
David Moata, Papunya 
Albert Ward, Alice Springs. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

Pastor P. Albrecht, Superintendent, Finke River Mission, P.O. Box 48, Alice Springs, N.T. 5750 3 Nov. 1 976 
Dear Pastor Albrecht, 
As agreed after my meetings with the Aboriginals at the Mission Block on 27 and 28 October, the following is a summary of the report which I have submitted to Central Office in Canberra. 
About 50 Aboriginals representing communities from Hermannsburg and a number of cattle stations have today concluded a series of meetings to which I was invited for lengthy periods on 27 and 28 October. 
These men were mostly important ones from the areas concerned. The discussion grew out of their understanding that the presently proposed bill will shortly be passed and I was invited to further explain its provisions especially in regard to land trusts and land councils. It should be noted that the conference was held at the Lutheran Mission Block to which a number had come on Mission business only to some how hear of the Government 's 'go-ahead ' presumably from Albrecht. The other representatives were therefore summoned so that the meeting became a Land Rights conference. 
After fairly exhaustive discussion several important things become clear and at their request I undertook to convey to the Minister their view that the present Bill (a) does not adequately recognise their land owning system and (b) that they would rather wait for individual land trusts to be formed, recognising that this will inevitably delay grant of title to them. 
Whether or not some of these people had been brainwashed is difficult to assess and is probably not relevant. One can only be impressed by the strength of their convictions that the Bill does not satisfactorily achieve land rights and' that it will cause serious friction. 
The meeting on 28 October was at my request as I wanted them to have a further chance to hear the provisions again explained. Pastor Albrecht was present for this session for translation which was subject to check by Wenton Rubuntja Chairman of the Land Council. 
Time did not permit an exhaustive discussion of their attitude to the Land Council but from the discussion on the first day it is practically certain that they reject this concept also. 
It was made clear to them that it was the Government's intention to pass the Bill substantially in its present form and that therefore they would need to make a special request to the Minister to consider excluding Hermannsburg, Jay Creek, Utopia and Ti-Tree from its operation (I realise the last two are not within the present framework.) Prior to this we had gone over at length the problems involved in separate land trusts for each clan group and the delays involved in surveys and transfer of title, the lack of safe-guards during that time etc. None of these arguments had any impression. 
Naturally I told the group that I did not know what the Government's reaction to their request would be. Clearly the whole issue is of considerable importance to them and clearly we must look at the legal implication i.e. does the Bill presently allow an option for the Minister not to establish a and trust in respect of certain areas described in the schedule: and to provide for the exclusion of certain areas from the operation of the clauses dealing with the establishment of land councils. At present it would seem that it is obligatory on the Minister (the word 'shall' is used), to establish a land trust for each area in the schedule and to establish two land councils encompassing the whole of the Northern Territory. Would appreciate advice on your reaction. ' 
This information is furnished to you on the understanding that you will disseminate it amongst the groups concerned. 
Yours sincerely, 
-Is the motion seconded? 
-I say to the honourable member for Corio that that matter does not come within the jurisdiction of the Chair. It is a matter for the Ministerwhoever that Minister is- who makes the second reading speech. 
-Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
Sitting suspended from  6.11  to  8  p.m. 
-Does the Minister claim to have been misrepresented? 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The document read as follows: 

-The discussion is concluded. 
-Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
I would like the honourable member for Wills to quote his authority and to say whether it is the  Hansard  record - 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the 5 measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the 3 Bills? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The letter read as follows- 

ST. JOHN'S COLLEGE P.O Box 8, Lakemba, 2195 Telephone: 759-4673 23 November, 1976 
The  Hon.  F. E. Stewart, M.P., Shop 2, The Boulevarde, LAKEMBA. 
-I call the honourable member for Swan. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
From memory the interim report brought down by the honourable member mentioned the numbers of approvals given this year up until the end of September. Obviously the report does not give a completely up to date picture of what has happened. I inform the House that the figures for the period from 1 April 1975 to 26 November 1976- this is the period for which the latest figures are available- show that at least 5307 approvals were given in that time. The number of arrivals up until 3 1 October this year was 3662. The number of arrivals between July and October of this year was 1766. That number exceeds the total number of arrivals for 1975 and for the financial year 1975-76. I believe that these up-to-date figures show that the Government has responded to the situation in the Lebanon. I believe that they give a more up to date interpretation of events. 
The other matter that I would like to mention very briefly relates to the refugee policy which I have stated a number of times. I believe that the formulation of a refugee policy is of great significance. I agree with the honourable member for Fremantle in relation to this and as such I have instructed the Australian Population and Immigration Council to include a chapter on refugees in its Green Paper. The Green Paper is in the final drafting stage and will be presented to the Parliament at the first opportunity in the new sittings next year. 
-Is the amendment seconded? 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the 3 measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The tables read as follows- 


<graphic href="102131197612032_26_0.jpg"></graphic>

This amending Bill is a major achievement for pharmacy and the 5500 retail pharmacy outlets in Australia. In addition to the number of pharmacies forced to close over recent years, it must be realised that there are hundreds of existing retail shops whose owners are barely making a living. In some instances pride keeps them from closing the doors. In other instances it is purely a desire to remain in business and to continue to be one's own master. This Bill signals the culmination of 1 5 years of bitter argument and counter argument between officials of the Pharmacy Guild, officials of the Department of Health, Ministers for Health and politicians. Bitterness on the part of some senior Guild officials in past years has seen them openly and publicly advising their members not to support a government. Knowing the frustrations of these people, I can well imagine their feelings and how they were motivated to such drastic measures. 
I believe that it would be remiss of me not to pay tribute to the senior negotiators of the Pharmacy Guild. Their fight for many years past has been led by the National  President,  Alan Russell of South Australia, and by John Scown of Victoria and Alan Grant-Taylor of Queensland. They are to be commended for their tenacity and patience in times when Guild members throughout the country were edgy, dissatisfied and often highly critical. This Government is to be praised for taking a sane approach to the problem and for recognising something which was unfair and unjust and then moving to rectify the anomaly. It should be recognised by all that governments do not have bottomless pits from which to draw money, as is popularly thought by the public at large. To relinquish such a control over an area where substantial expenditure occurs is quite a feat and illustrates the fairness and goodwill of this Government. This speech would be incomplete if I did not commend the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  who was prepared to listen, to identify the problems and then to act so swiftly to rectify the anomalous situation. 
On a number of occasions over the past 3 years I have spoken in the House and outside it about the difficulties of the profession. I have always been genuine in my expression that I do not carry any special brief for pharmacy, although I retain some retail pharmacy interests. I have criticised various aspects of the profession before; no doubt I will do so again. On this issue I was convinced that justice was not being done. I mention this point because in politics people have the knack of saying: 'He is only in it for himself. I feel that my colleagues on the Opposition side would confirm my non-partisan approach on many issues and, in relation to this issue, would agree that my support for this measure is not motivated by self-interest. I have oft stated that I am first and foremost a representative of the people; that being a politician is my prime duty. I might add that no political pressure has been brought to bear on the Government to have this decision made, in the sense of any standover tactics or threats of withdrawal of support by the Pharmacy Guild. If that sort of thing had been possible, this move would have been made many years ago. 
Pharmacists are not a pressure group. On the contrary, they are a highly respectable band of professional people, basically docile, who perform a tremendous duty in all communities for the general good of mankind. They have no political muscle. There are only 5500 retail pharmacy outlets in Australia. I suggest that they could muster no more than 20 000 votes at best. It is my impression that there is little or no public sympathy in the community for a particular professional group when there is a suggestion that the professional group is inadequately remunerated. It has been a popular misbelief for decades that all master pharmacists are wealthy. Some are, most are not. 
So far I have examined the background to the problem and have spoken in some depth on the issues that have occasioned the bringing forward of this amendment. I now turn to the substance of the Bill itself to explain how the changes to the system will be implemented. In essence, independent arbitration is to replace government or political dominance. For the first time the determination of the level of remuneration to pharmacists for dispensing prescriptions will be taken out of the political arena and vested in a body of 9 people who will meet as the Joint Committee on Pharmaceutical Benefits Pricing Arrangements. It will comprise a  chairman  being a  deputy president  of the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, 4 members nominated by the Pharmacy Guild of Australia and 4 officers of the Public Service. The Government has shown good faith in the Pharmacy Guild by giving it complete autonomy with the selection of people it nominates to the Joint Committee. If the Pharmacy Guild desires to terminate the appointment of any or all of its nominees to the Committee, the Minister shall so terminate the appointment or appointments on the recommendation of the Guild. The independent  chairman  must make his determination m accordance with the Committee's recommendations, provided the Committee reaches a unanimous decision. If there is dissension the  chairman  has the power to arbitrate and hand down his personal decision. That decision is binding on both the Pharmacy Guild and the Government. It cannot be meddled with by either side. This is the form of simple arbitration which the Guild has been seeking for years, but to date it has been denied. 
The Joint Committee will conduct such inquiries as are necessary to determine dispensing fees to be paid to pharmacists, and cannot meet until all 9 members are present. In other words, a quorum is the full committee. In spite of this excellent measure which should give pharmacy much greater stability, it is really only the beginning of the era of stability for the retail pharmaceutical industry. Much more has to be done and a careful rationalisation of pharmacies must be carried out. It is over to the profession to act sensibly and rationally to ensure that outlets are maintained at a level where the public purpose and, convenience are served while maintaining a fair income for the pharmacist. Pharmacy must learn from the bitter lesson it has attended over the past 15 years. 
I am concerned that the qualified pharmacist, a person with valuable training and possessing skills obtained at a tertiary education institute, is wasting a great deal of those skills carrying out present duties. Is the community reaping the full benefit of the pharmacy education dollar? The obvious answer is no. What point is there in training people to a high standard, which should improve with years of experience, if those skills are to be wasted and diminished with the passing of the years? The profession must diversify for the good of the health of the community and for the morale and mental outlook of the individual pharmacist. The pharmacist's more meaningful role could be achieved in many areas such as the dissemination of information to the community in health education programs and assistance to the medical profession by providing more pharmacological information. 'Prevention is better than cure' is an old cliche not to be dismissed lightly. A health education program conducted through the 5500 pharmacies to our 13.5 million people could save much suffering and reduce the quantity and cost of medical and hospital care. Busy doctors often cannot find the time to study pharmacology, which deals with the specific actions of drugs on the organs and tissues of the body. The pharmacist could develop more expertise in this field and assist doctors. 
Already some chemists keep patient medication profiles to avoid drug interactions, allergies and incompatabilities. This is a simple but valuable service much appreciated by the patient and I believe that it would be welcomed by the medical profession. Family planning is another area where the pharmacist could play a useful role. There is surely no need to divert the present quantity of resources into a field like this when the understanding pharmacist, with a little more specialised training in this area, could be fulfilling the function at little cost. I hope that the matters I have raised can be studied in some detail by the Pharmacy Guild, that some plan of diversification can be evolved in consultation with the medical profession and governments and that this Government and the States will take more advantage of the skills and integrity of the pharmacy profession. It is a resource ready to be tapped for the overall benefit of our communities at little cost. 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. He will no doubt recall my correspondence with him in March this year in which I suggested that there should be a restructuring of the taxation arrangements and action taken in regard to sales tax. In the light of the comments in the newspapers today by  Mr Hawke  and  Mr Polites,  the Executive Director of the Australian Council of Employers' Federations, I ask the Treasurer whether he will have a conference with those 2 gentlemen, the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations and others concerned in the industrial and economic scene in order to give further consideration to these economic matters and with a view to moving towards further action in slowing down the inflationary spiral confronting the Government. 
-Is the amendment seconded? 

 -The Speaker has received a letter from the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  proposing that a definite matter of public importance be submitted to the House for discussion, namely: 
The fall in the standards of living under the Fraser Government. 
I call upon those members who approve of the proposed discussion to rise in their places. 

 More than the number of members required by the Standing Orders having risen in their places- 

-The following Bills were returned from the Senate without amendment. 
Aboriginal Councils and Associations Bill 1976. 
States Grants (Aboriginal Assistance) Bill 1 976. 
-Is leave granted to move the 4 amendments together? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 -Mr Speaker, I desire to be associated with the remarks that you and others have made in regard to  Mr Parkes.  One of the factors contributing to the progress and the work of this chamber is the attention to duty, the Loyalty and the friendship of so many people who keep the wheels turning. Not the least contribution to that is made by the  Clerk  of the House. I have known over a long period of time the work that has been done by  Mr Parkes  during the time that he has occupied the position. On many occasions I have known by the look on his brow that perhaps he has not agreed with what I have said or with what I have done, but he has always been the perfect gentleman and has been polite enough not to indicate with a great deal of strength his disagreement with what I have said. I have also had a very pleasurable association with him in the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association. 
I do not want to repeat what has already been said by many honourable members who have paid tribute to him but I would like to express my personal appreciation of what he has done during the time that I have been a member of this House and during the time that I have occupied the chair. We know the work that he has done, the courtesy that he has extended to all honourable members and the assistance that he has given to honourable members on both sides of the House. I join with others in expressing a deep appreciation for the work that he has done and my very best wishes and warmest regards to him in his retirement. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

Guidelines for Pre-election Consultation with the Opposition 
The pre-election period is to date from three months prior to the expiry of the House of Representatives or the date of announcement of the House of Representatives election, whichever date comes first. It does not apply in respect of Senate elections only. 
Under the special arrangement, shadow Ministers may be given approval to have discussions with appropriate officials of Government Departments. Party Leaders may have other Members of Parliament or their staff members present. A Permanent Head may have other officials present. 
The procedure will be initiated by the Leaders of non-Government parties making a request to the Prime Minister specifying the Departments involved. If he agrees, the Prime Minister will then put the arrangements in hand. 
The discussions will be at the initiative of the Leaders of non-Government parties, not officials. Officials will inform their Ministers when the discussions are taking place. 
Officials will not be authorised to discuss Government policies or to give opinions on matters of a party political nature. The subject matter of the discussions would relate to the machinery of government and administration. The discussions may include the administrative and technical practicalities and procedures involved in implementation of policies proposed by the non-Government parties. If the Opposition representatives raised matters which, in the judgment of the officials, sought information on Government policies or sought expressions of opinion on alternative policies, the officials would suggest that the matter be raised with the Minister. 
The detailed substance of the discussions will be confidential but Ministers will be entitled to seek from officials general information on whether the discussions kept within the agreed purposes. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
The first few paragraphs of the Treasurer's statement contained some ' political nonsense about personal income tax indexation which is totally unrelated to the subject of inflation accounting for the business sector, which is the subject of this statement. What has been said in those paragraphs is quite dishonest. It is no wonder that this Government has hardly an ounce of credibility left. I will give the House some examples of what the Government has done. After saying that it would not meddle with Medibank, the Government did meddle with it. After saying that it would support wage indexation, it then went to the first national wage case and opposed wage indexation. This time last year we heard how there was to be reform of the tax structure, and that there was to be more take home pay for the wage and salary earners of this country. That just is not true. We applaud the introduction of tax indexation. We have done so on previous occasions. I repeat it. But it is not true to say that tax indexation will result in more take home pay for the Australian wage and salary earners. 
Tax indexation was able to be introduced so promptly only because of the reforms that took place in the Hayden Budget this time last year. Changes were made to the tax scales in such a way that tax indexation was able to be introduced. It is just not true to say that there is now more take home pay because although there have been adjustments for Inflation under tax indexation we have had offsetting them the health taxes, the removal of rebates for dependants and the abolition of interest deductibility on home mortgages. 
Only last Monday night when opening the debate in the Parliament on taxation legislation I gave the example of a man with a wife and 2 children who received a taxable income of $10,000 a year, which is just over the figure for average weekly earnings. I pointed out that after taking into consideration the increased child endowment benefit, this man was now taking home over $5 a week less when adjustments were made for inflation and account was taken of the health taxes and the removal of rebates for dependants. I should note that this calculation does not take into consideration the removal of the deductibility scheme for interest paid on home mortgages which imposed further costs on many Australians. I am bound to make those points because in a dishonest way the Treasurer introduced the subject to tax indexation in his statement on trading stock valuation adjustment. 
Having said that I come to the details of the statement. The Australian Labor Party Government set up the Mathews Committee, the report of which gave rise to the measures which are the subject of the statement, details of which have just been given by the Treasurer. I am bound to point out also that this statement gives the impression that the Australian Labor Party 
Government was responsible for the level of inflation which has given rise to the measure we are now considering. That too is a dishonest statement. There is not a country in the world, which operates under a system similar to ours, that is not suffering from the level of inflation that we are suffering and that has not had to take measures such as the adjustment measures that we are debating today. 
The Opposition welcomes the fact that the Government has adopted in a qualified way some of the recommendations of the Mathews Committee. We welcome the fact that a further statement has been made today clarifying what was promised in the Budget Speech. Let us hope that this statement is not merely a carbon copy of the sorts of statements that were made about investment allowance. We all remember that the Treasurer made statement after statement on this subject in the House in the early months of this year and that each statement gave rise to more confusion than the previous one. I trust that this will not happen in respect of trading stock valuation adjustments. 
Trading stock valuation adjustment is, of course, only one element in current cost accounting. I am on record as giving a personal view on current cost accounting to a seminar in Melbourne entitled Dimensions of Current Cost Accounting run by the Business Law Education Centre on 4 November this year. I believe that we cannot continue to allow accounting methods which gave rise to taxation and dividends being paid out of capital. Adjustments have to be made. Adjustments such as these are being made in comparable countries. It is right and proper that they should be made here. 
I welcome the fact that the Government has made a move in this direction. Bearing in mind the short notice that I have had to examine the statement, I am not committing myself or my Party to agreement with the decisions taken by the Government as announced in this statement. I believe that we have to make a closer study with our technical advisers of this matter before we commit ourselves. I notice that there are paragraphs in the Treasurer's statement already showing that there is more in the way of information which has to be given. I draw attention to the paragraph which states: 
Honourable members will be aware that some protective provisions will be required to ensure that the new scheme of stock adjustments is not misused for tax avoidance purposes. 
It would have been preferable if we could have been given these further details. It would have been even more preferable if the particular legislation could have been laid on the table over this period so that we could then have examined this important subject in some depth. I said last Monday night during the debate on the taxation Bills that in this complicated area the Government should have been giving priority to the Parliamentary Counsel and taxation advisers in bring down specific proposals in legislative form in this House rather than having the Treasurer give us vague statements like this or statements which are not sufficient in detail. It is the actual wording of the legislation which we need to know sooner rather than later. I welcome the fact that we have had a statement. I hope it will be clearer than the initial statement on the investment allowance but I would have preferred that the legislation had been brought into the House. I hope that that will be done soon. 
-by leave-The Third Australasian Parliamentary Seminar was attended by 24 delegates from 19 branches of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association in South-East Asia and the Australasian regions. It was conducted in September this year in Parliament House, Sydney; Parliament House, Canberra; the Town Hall, Townsville; and Parliament House, Brisbane. Excluding the delegates themselves there were some 67 principal speakers and panel members, ranging from Presiding Officers to Ministers of the Crown, to academics, to local government authorities, heads of statutory authorities, the Permanent Heads of executive departments, private members of Parliament and members of parliamentary staffs and members of the Press. The formal discussions ranged the whole gamut of Parliament and government including local government, practice and procedure, the administrative organisation of Parliament and Parliament's relations with the media, but equally with the formal discussions there was a healthy informal exchange of information and views, and I can assure honourable members that the flow was two-way. 
Australasian parliamentary seminars are becoming a familiar part of the parliamentary scene in this area, but honourable members will know that they do not just happen. They are sponsored and financed by the Australian Commonwealth and State branches and the New Zealand branch of the Association. They are organised by officers and officials of the Commonwealth and State parliaments, and their success depends absolutely upon the assistance and co-operation of the members of the Australian parliaments and local government authorities, and upon the good will of various community organisations and interests. 
In presenting this report, I should, on behalf of the sponsoring branches, like to acknowledge the debt we owe to the Presiding Officers and various Ministers of the New South Wales and Queensland Parliaments; to  His  Worship the Mayor of Townsville, Alderman Percy Tucker and his staff; to Professor Aitkin of Macquarie University; to the senior officers of the executive departments who gave freely of their time, particularly  Mr Lawler, Mr Yeend, Mr Comans  and the Acting Chief Electoral Officer,  Mr White;  to  Sir Charles  Barton, the Co-Ordinator-General of Works in Queensland; and certainly not least to members of this Parliament and to good friends of the Parliament in the Parliamentary Press Gallery particularly  Mr Randall,  the President;  Mr Allan  Barnes of the Melbourne  Age;  and  Mr Ken  Begg of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. I think that the report speaks for itself. Copies have been placed in the Parliamentary Library and are available from the Bills and Papers Office and I commend the report to all honourable members. As, in these days, a need exists for a closer association of all countries, particularly those in this area, I believe that these seminars are of great importance and will attain greater importance in the years ahead. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

a barge or like vessel fitted with living quarters for more than 12 persons and used or intended for use in connexion with the construction, maintenance or repair of off-shore industry fixed structures, shall be deemed to be an off-shore industry mobile unit 
This section applies to off-shore industry mobile units that are used or intended for use in, or in any operations or activities associated with or incidental to, exploring, or exploiting the natural resources of, either or both- 
the continental shelf of Australia; or 
the seabed, or subsoil of the seabed, of the Australian coastal sea. 
The regulations may make provision for and in relation to offshore industry mobile units to which this section applies with respect to any matter with respect to which provision is made by this Act or may be made by regulations made otherwise than by virtue of this section and, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, with respect to- 
the inspection and survey of units, and the issue of survey certificates; 
the construction, hull, equipment and machinery of units; 
load lines (including subdivision load lines), and the assigning and marking of load lines (including subdivisionload lines) on units; 
the stability of units; 
accommodation; 
safety, including life-saving equipment and appliances; 
g) the prevention, detection and extinction of fire; 
the prevention of collisions; 
the towing of units; 
) the equipping of units with radio installations and the operation, maintenance and use on units of radio installations; 
the manning of units; 
the securing to the seabed of units engaged in drilling, laying pipelines or other operations; and 
the providing, equipping, operation and use of offshore industry vessels used, or for use, in association with units. 
Without limiting the generality of sub-section (5), the regulations may provide that a specified provision of this Act (including a provision of regulations made otherwise than by virtue of this section) does not apply, or applies with prescribed modifications, in relation to vessels that are offshore industry mobile units to which this section applies. 
The Minister may, by notice in writing served on a person, being a person who is the owner, operator or person m charge of an off-shore industry mobile unit to which this section applies, give to that person directions as to any matter with respect to which regulations may be made by virtue of sub-section (5). 
The next matter I want to refer to is the deletion of section 187A, a provision which was in the 1975 Bill and which related to the endorsement of the 1972 convention on internation! regulations for prevention of collisions at sea. That convention will become operative in July next year. There will not be a Marine and Ports Council meeting until April of next year and we are going to find ourselves again dragging the chain in regard to a most important international convention. The Department of Transport tried to negotiate an agreement with the States from 1973 on. It still has not got an agreement. I doubt that it ever will. 
Another important feature that has been deleted is the operations manual. This was one of the important points that came out of the  Blythe Star  inquiry. The officers did not know how to operate their ship or how to calculate the stability of their ship. We brought in this provision for an operations manual. I cannot understand why the Minister has deleted it from the Bill. It was a simple procedure. Ships today are all different. Construction, layout, technology and characteristics of shipping today are different ship by ship. There is a need for this sort of thing. For the Minister to delete it is, in my opinion, criminal. 
-I have noted the remarks of the honourable member for Mackellar. I point out, of course, that one of the joys of the  Speaker  or his  Deputy  is that when he gives the call to an honourable member that honourable member thinks that he is the greatest  Speaker  or  Deputy Speaker  who has ever been in the chamber and the 39 others who are seeking the call think that he is the worst. I call the honourable member for Prospect. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

<graphic href="103131197702153_45_0.jpg"></graphic>

The table clearly sets out the total of Australian national production as measured by the gross domestic product. In December 1975 when the previous Government lost office the figure was less than it was in December 1974 and in December 1974 it was less than it was in December 1973. There was a total stagnation of production. I shall come back to that figure in a different context in a moment. But now it is growing again. Apart from the national income figures there were strong retail sales in December which carried on into January. The production figures for the December just past compared with December 1975 show that some 22 items out of the total of 33 items for which figures are available registered increases, many of which were substantial. The boost from devaluation, which was made all but inevitable by the cost explosion that took place under the previous Government and so undermined our international competitive position, will contribute importantly to the speed of the recovery. In that context I wish to refer to a report in the  Australian Financial Review. 
To that end, as the Treasurer pointed out, we are maintaining and we will continue to maintain the taut fiscal and monetary policy we adopted immediately on attaining office; that is, restraining the growth of government expenditure, getting the deficit down, and containing the growth of the money supply. It is dishonest and absurd for the Leader of the Opposition to suggest that our policies in this area are other than well understood, cohesive and resolute. In addition we are intensifying our efforts in the area of incomes policy to which I will return in a moment. In respect of monetary and fiscal policy, that is, the context of restraining the growth of spending, getting the deficit under control and containing the growth of the money supply, I make two brief points. First I know of no instance in any country where inflation has been reduced from the high rate reached in Australia without such a taut monetary and fiscal policy, and that is virtually unanimous economic opinion. 
I make only this second point: The Government is greatly concerned to reform the tax system and reduce the tax burden and notwithstanding all the difficulties of the budgetary situation it has done much of that. Existing measures which have been taken are costing over $ 1 ,000m in 1976-77 in terms of revenue forgone. That is, in effect, tax reduction. The indexing of taxes, which means of course an adjustment of tax scales so that the burden of tax paid is reduced in the context of inflation, was implemented on 1 July last year. During this financial year, as I say, it is costing $ 1,000m; that is $ 1,000m tax that would otherwise have had to have been paid. That is on the statute book and there will automatically be another instalment, so to speak, as from 1 July this year. 
As I said, the second main thrust of our antiinflationary policy is incomes policy, that is, the more direct- than monetary and fiscal policyrestraint of prices and incomes. Of course this is an area where it is important to be even-handed. We have retained the Prices Justification Tribunal. In the post-devaluation context that Tribunal has been directed to exercise a general surveillance on prices and as at 20 January the Tribunal was investigating some 46 specific complaints in that connection. But still the central problem is the containment of the increase in wages and salaries. At this time the Government stresses the absolute economic necessity for a limitation in the indexation adjustment of wages and salaries to the increase in the consumer price index. The shadow Treasurer and other Opposition speakers upbraid the Government and say that this is an attack on employees, that it is a proposal to cut real wages, that it is an exercise in immorality, as the head of the Labor Party, the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, Bob Hawke, said recently. 
Let me say this: Of course there is an apparent basic justice in a full and prompt adjustment of wages and salaries as against a limited adjustment. But the choice is not as simple as that. The matter must be looked at more deeply. I have news for the Opposition. According to the results of a recent Morgan Gallup Poll, the majority of Australians have looked at this matter more deeply and more thoughtfully than members of the Opposition, and they were opposed to a full flow-on of the September quarter consumer price increase. Of those surveyed, 46 per cent supported that view as compared with 43 per cent in favour. 
On the other side is the proposal and indeed the absolute economic necessity, for a less than full adjustment. In that respect, as we have done in the past, we ask only those who can alford it- not those in the low income groups- to accept a less than full cost of living adjustment, which would have the effect of quickly restoring a normal situation where real wages and living standards grow regularly, soon making up for any temporary restraint now- and achieving that position for all Australians, not just those presently in employment but for the unemployed as well. 
In a word, in urging the necessity for a limitation in the adjustment of wages and salaries to the increase in the consumer price index, we are not asking the Australian people to accept that proposal in return for nothing. On the contrary, such a limitation is the surest and quickest- if not the only- way to a resumption of the normal growth in real wages and living standards to which Australians are accustomed- and for all Australians, not just those in employment. 
If you ask what is the fundamental reason for the present difficulties, it is the already high Australian cost structure. A full CPI adjustment will quickly make that structure higher still. Why is it so high? It is so high basically as a result of the fact that in the period 1974-75, when, as I said earlier, there was no increase at all in the total national product- that is demonstrated by the figures in the earlier table- those in employment achieved an increase of some 46 per cent in their money wages. Inter-related to this was a massive increase in prices of approximately 34 per cent. So, there was an increase of 12 per cent in the real wages of Australians in employment. As Bob Hawke himself said- to quote him again- three or four years normal growth were rolled into one year. What was the cost? 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. The discussion is now concluded. 
-This is one problem which faces not only the Chair but also the House. If in appreciation of the situation relating to the time factor the Chair allows an honourable member to go outside the terms of the Bill another honourable member may seek to reply to those comments. Once that happens the debate becomes a broad and wide one. I think it might be as well to allow the matter to develop a bit further before further points of order are raised. 
My remaining comments will be brief. I am sure the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Groom)  is absolutely delighted to know that as of today Wing Commander Jim Trethewey of Burnie has been appointed Officer in Charge of Air Cadets in Tasmania. That is extremely encouraging because the Air Cadet unit in Tasmania has suffered somewhat over recent years. Regrettably too, as the Minister would be aware - 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the 4 Bills? There being no objection, I shall allow that course to be followed. 
-I cannot call the Attorney-General while another member is standing, because the AttorneyGeneral, having presented the Bill in the first place, would close the debate. Therefore, if the honourable member for Hughes insists on taking the call, the call must be given to him. I call the honourable member for Hughes. 
Opposition is intent on gaining the support of the community for this legislation, I will yield to the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott) 
-The 4 Bills that are before the House this evening are all important. I suppose that the most important one of the four is the one that relates to simultaneous elections. It is perhaps a pity in one sense that we do not have debates such as this one more frequently in this chamber. Yesterday the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Ellicott)  presented the Bills and, in his second reading speech, related the facts and statistics. He gave reasons for the referenda to be carried, particularly in relation to the first Bill. Today we heard a speech by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam).  I do not want to appear to be patronising but I would say that it was a well presented and well thought out speech as is customary of speeches made by the Leader of the Opposition on occasions both in this House and outside it. He was followed by the  Deputy  Leader of my own Party, the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  He too put forward arguments and reasons to justify the Government's action in this regard. 
Perhaps one of the reasons why there are difficulties with constitutional amendments is that they are couched in legal terms which are sometimes difficult for the layman to understand. I confess that one on occasion as  Chairman  of Committees I asked the  Clerk, Sir Alan  Turner, why it was that sometimes our legal friends used confusing phraseology in their legislation. I say that with due apology to members of the legal profession. He told me that sometimes they do it so that one really cannot understand what they are saying. When various proposals have on occasions been put to the people of Australia they have been rejected because the people have not had a complete understanding of the meaning of the legislation. Because of that, opponents of the legislation have been able to create a degree of doubt in the minds of people. I would say to the- members of the media that if they have a doubt about the value of these 4 Bills they should certainly express that doubt but also they should give careful consideration to what is being presented because this legislation will affect the Parliament and also the life of this nation. 
Perhaps it is unfortunate that we do not have debates of this kind more frequently when reasoned argument is put forward, even though there may be conflicting points of view, without a great deal of political emotionalism. I suppose that in political life it is very difficult to avoid emotionalism. It is very difficult not to react to something that concerns us. Any constitutional amendment affecting the Parliament affects all members in the House of Representatives and in the Senate. I hope that whatever criticism may be made will be well thought out and presented in a constructive and not a destructive manner. The honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  mentioned before the suspension of the sitting that one of the arrangements put forward was that this legislation would take away some of the independence of the Senate. I agree with the honourable member for Corio that that assumption is not correct. In the number of elections that have been held in Australia over recent years one thing has been paramount: That is that the real value of elections is being lost because of the rapidity with which they have been brought about. Not only do we have Senate and House of Representatives elections but we also have elections for the various State governments and, of course in a smaller way, for local government A number of years ago I put forward the contention that in Australia there should be a S-year term or at least a 4-year term for our federal Parliament. 
-I am delighted to hear that the honourable member for Prospect appreciates the valuable contribution that the Country Party makes to this country when he says that he wants us to be members of this place for 10 years which is even longer than his own Labor Party colleagues. It shows that he has a very great appreciation of the valuable contribution made in this place by my colleagues in my Party as well of course by my colleagues in the Liberal Party. I think we need a 4-year term or a 5-year term in Australia for the federal Parliament. It would enable governments to plan and to carry out programs with a sense of development. 
I have been rather surprised at some of the comments that have been made in relation to this legislation. Situations change. Circumstances alter. Just because an individual, a government or a party opposes legislation at some time does not necessarily mean that it is wrong for them to support or to endeavour to pass similar legislation at a later time. I think that argument can justifiably be put forward in relation to the presentation of this legislation by the Government. I have been amazed that some of the people who have been highly critical of this legislation have put forward other proposals that may have some merit but they also have some weaknesses. I want to comment on what has been said not only recently but also previously about outside appointments being made to the executive to give the Cabinet advice. Advice from these sources, qualified as it would be, is available to the Cabinet at any time it desires to ask for it. Any Minister, including the Prime Minister and any member of the Cabinet, can receive advice from any expert, from any authority or from any person who he feels can be of value and can help in the presentation of legislation and in deliberations on legislation. I - believe that one of the great weaknesses of the American system which has been mentioned is that that person is not responsible to the people. Under our system irrespective of anything else the Prime Minister himself, the same as any other member of this House, must appear before the electors and be elected as an individual before he becomes Prime Minister of this country. I think that this is of extreme value. It is a matter of responsibility. 
If one looks at these pieces of legislation one may see some disadvantages in them, particularly in the Constitutional Alteration (Simultaneous Elections) Bill, but in the total political situation they are of advantage to this Parliament and more importantly to this country. There is a concentration of effort. The legislation will certainly have an economic advantage and it will contribute to a greater stability of our parliamentary system. 
In respect of the Constitutional Alteration (Senate Casual Vacancies) Bill, I believe everyone accepts that the vacancies should be filled by a person of the same political persuasion as the person who left the vacancy. The Bill dealing with the retirement ages of judges is advantageous and it should be given support. Many honourable members have spoken about the Constitutional Alteration (Referendums) BUI which relates to the Territories. Honourable members have mentioned the increasing importance of the Territories. This is further evidence of the continuing advancement of our Territories, and of our country, in the political field. 
As I said at the beginning of my speech, I hope that the people of Australia, accepting that there may be some disabilities in these 4 pieces of legislation but also accepting that in their total presentation they are to the advantage of this country in every way, after having noted the support given to them in this House will themselves give their support when the proposals are presented and that all four wil be accepted by the citizens of Australia 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The document read as follows- 


<graphic href="103131197702223_16_0.jpg"></graphic>

To take another basis of comparison, in a comparison of the increase in the index over 6-month periods, expressed as an annual rate, the same improvement is evident. The consumer price index, after adjustment for government taxes and charges and for the effects of Medibank, rose at an annual rate of 10.2 per cent over the last half of 1976, compared with a rise of 14.3 per cent over the last half of the previous year. In other words, in the second half of 1976 inflation was running at an annual rate some 4 percentage points or more lower than in the second half of 1975. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table setting down movements in the consumer price index on the basis to which I have just referred. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The document read as follows- 


<graphic href="103131197702223_17_1.jpg"></graphic>

A large proportion of the CPI increase has been due to effects of increased charges by State and Australian governments' instrumentalities and increases in duties and charges by those governments. 
The honourable gentleman went on to say: 
These will be largely once only effects and, provided sensible restraint is used in economic management in the course of the calendar year, there is no reason why the CPI should not come down substantially for succeeding quarters. 
This is not the present administration speaking; these are the words used by the honourable member for Oxley who is obviously very embarrassed to be reminded of what he said at the time. With that comment in mind the honourable member for Oxley is in no position now to cavil at the once only effects of the present Government's Medibank changes. The honourable member for Oxley also argued, in relation to the December quarter 1975 index, that not too much emphasis could be put on a single quarter and that it had to be averaged with the preceding quarter for purposes of economic analysis. I do not want to embarrass the honourable gentleman unduly. But in a low profile way I quote what the honourable gentleman said then about the position of averaging. He said: 
You ought to put that CPI figure together with the September quarter CPI figure and average them ... I think you have got to put those two things together and to take the average for purposes of judging the economic effects. 
This is the then Treasurer telling the Australian nation at large the sort of basis that he believed was reasonable for purposes of economic analysis. If one accepted the Hayden formula- which this Government does not- and excluded once again the effects of changes made to Medibank by the present and the past Governments, the average quarterly increase in the consumer price index during the last 6 months of 1975 was 4.6 per cent. For the equivalent period of 1976 the figure was 2.5 per cent or almost half the rate of increase during the same period in 1975. The honourable gentleman- I say this to him in a very pleasant way- is hoist on his own petard. Remembering those comments made by the honourable gentleman will not provide the type of support which obviously he requires in the Australian Labor Party in relation to his challenge for the Deputy's position which will come up in the months ahead. 
I have referred today to 4 different methods of comparison, including the one used by my predecessor, the honourable member for Oxley. On every valid statistical basis it can be seen that the underlying rate of inflation is lower now than it was a year ago. It does the Opposition no credit whatever to seek to distort the picture with a series of half truths and inaccuracies. I recall that when the present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)-  I would like to give him a serve, if I may, but only in passing- commented on the 5.6 per cent increase in the index for the December quarter of 1975 he' said that the December 1975 quarter index 'reflected moves toward economic recovery sparked by the August 1975 Hayden Budget'. The Leader of the Opposition might well ask himself why the Opposition now claims that the latest CPI does not reflect recovery whereas the one a year ago did. I also draw attention- it is embarrassing to do this to the Opposition but one must put these matters on the record in a pleasant way- to what the 
Leader of the Opposition had to say about health costs. He said: 
The December quarter figures also show a very substantial decrease in the cost of health services as a direct result of the Medibank program introduced by my Government. 
The honourable gentleman said that at the end of the December quarter in 1975. It is, of course, completely fatuous to assert that the cost of health services declined simply because the bill was transferred to the taxpayer. It is equally fatuous for the Opposition to be claiming in the House today that the latest index reflects an increase in the cost of health services. 
Finally, in looking at what members of the Labor Party have had to say, I remind the House that the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions had very little to say about the December 1975 index, apart from calling for its full flow-on through wages. No doubt that gentleman, who a year ago was an apologist for the Labor Party's economic errors, will now be at the forefront of assertive criticism. Not only has the Opposition wrongly assessed the rate of inflation- simply to extract the maximum possible political capital- but also has it failed to come forward, once again, with a rational economic program. The Labor Party has been in Opposition now for more than 12 months. That time has been wasted. It has not learned from the mistakes that it made when in government. 
The Opposition's so-called alternative amounts to a scrappy 2 page Press release. It has been condemned by the honourable member for Adelaide who, together with the honourable member for Oxley, apparently speaks for the Opposition in this House on economic matters. I quote what the honourable member for Adelaide had to say about the Labor Party's alternative program - 
The danger in Labor's approach is the possibility of intensified pressure of demand leading to further prolonging of inflation. 
The Opposition's policy completely omits a reference to wages. It completely turns its back on two of the four arms of economic policy. In relation to monetary policy it believes that monetary growth should now underwrite the rate of inflation rather than restrain it. As I have said on previous occasions this amounts to nothing more than a lurch back into the policy errors of the past. To give the lie briefly and decisively to the program which the Australian Labor Party would foist on the Australian community I quote again the words of the British Prime Minister,  Mr Callaghan: 
We used to think that you could just spend your way out of a recession and increase employment by cutting taxes and boosting Government spending. I tell you in all candour that that option no longer exists and that insofar as it ever did exist, it worked by injecting inflation into the economy. 
But that statement encapsuled the very precise description of that which the Labor Party puts forward. The Government decisively rejects the matter of public importance proposed for discussion by the House. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order!  The Treasurer's time has expired. 
-The discussion is now concluded. 
-The question is: "That the question be now put'. Those of that opinion say aye, to the contrary no. I think the ayes have it. 
Opposition members- The noes have it. 
MrScholes-Yes. 

 The bells being rung- 

Question put: 
That the question be now put. 
-We cannot continue immediately with the second reading debate at this stage. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
I think it appropriate on this occasion also to welcome the appointment of LieutenantGeneral MacDonald to succeed  Sir Francis  Hassett. We are confident that LieutenantGeneral MacDonald, who will now become General MacDonald, will maintain the very high standard of service for government and for the Australian community which has been established by his long line of successors. 
-Is leave granted? 
National Country Party policy. The honourable member should read it out. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="103131197702245_19_0.jpg"></graphic>

This table should be read in conjunction with the attached notes. 

 Items: Voluntary Insurance; Social Security; Repatriation; Sick Leave; Superannuation. 
Rough estimates only. 
Hospital and Medical Expenses covered by Medibank at a cost of $35m work, $25m road (1975-76 prices). 
Before describing the essential features of our scheme, a word about experience overseas. New Zealand and various states and provinces of the United States of America and Canada have all acted to relieve the social and economic costs of accident compensation. In 1966 New Zealand first acted on the recommendations of a royal commission chaired by  Sir Owen  Woodhouse who, of course, was the  chairman  of the committee upon which the present scheme is based. 
In 23 years of office Liberal-Country Party governments in Australia failed to heed the example set by other governments and failed to take any action of their own. They failed to recognise the hardship and injustice imposed on accident victims by the antiquated common law system. My Party in 1971 adopted the policy of establishing a national compensation insurance scheme to replace third party and workers' compensation, and guarantee families and individuals a minimum income sufficient to maintain an acceptable standard of living. 
In March 1973  Mr Justice  Woodhouse was again commissioned, this time by my Government, to report upon the scope and form of a nationwide system of rehabilitation and compensation for all injured persons. This Bill, based substantially on that report, provides a scheme by which Australian residents will receive automatic earnings-related benefits when they are injured or incapacitated either temporarily or permanently from any cause. The injury may have been received at any place and at any time. When the scheme is in operation any employee or any person will be eligible for compensation for incapacity as a result of personal injury, providing that person is over the qualifying age and meets certain broad residence requirements. Personal injury' includes any physical or mental disability or damage and certain illnesses contracted as a result of the personal injury or in the course of employment. The benefit proposed is a weekly sum in respect of all incapacities. The sum for total incapacity is calculated on a percentageup to 85 per cent- of the weekly earnings of the applicant immediately before his injury. 
The scheme is to be administered by a government department. There is to be no contest over proving liability, no lawyers and no judge or jury. A social welfare policy administration will assess claims and provide benefits and allowances. The administration will also deal with the rehabilitative aspect of the scheme. It will set safety and health standards and co-ordinate activities across the full range of the social welfare area. In other words, the scheme does away with the common law system of once-and-for-all, lump-sum assessments of damages. Lump-sum awards preclude speedy settlement of claims as the final cost of the injury is often not determined for years. They also fail to take into account the effects of inflation or any deterioration in the victim 's condition. Under the scheme in the Bill benefits will be continually reviewable. All benefits will be automatically adjusted in accordance with rises in the consumer price index. Minor personal injuries and severe facial or bodily disfigurement may be compensated by way of lump-sum payment. Other benefits include sums to dependent relatives and children of deceased persons and the payment of funeral expenses. 
Let there be no talk of handouts and extravagances under this scheme. As I have shown, it will save money, not waste it. Even if there were no savings the scheme would be a vast improvement on what we have now. The removal of injustice, uncertainty and delay is a compelling reason for reforming the present cumbersome structure in one way or another. I put it forward as a general proposition that any form of insurance, indeed any community activity that is compulsory for everyone by law, is best administered in uniform fashion by a government agency established for that purpose. This scheme and Labor's Medibank scheme are based on the same principle. That principle is the need to establish the most rational, just, humane and efficient procedures to administer any social welfare scheme from which the whole community benefits and to which the whole community is obliged to contribute. The present system of compulsory State workers' compensation and third party insurance, like the Fraser Government's compulsory health insurance, are intrinsically extravagant and inefficient. Medical and hospital treatment have to be paid for, but the present State workers' compensation and third party insurance schemes and the present Federal health insurance scheme make medical and hospital treatment unnecessarily expensive for patients and taxpayers. 
In Australia the Federal Government is the government best suited to establish the new procedures. A uniform national scheme is selfevidently the best way to eliminate costs, overlap and duplication, and to reduce the administrative overheads entailed in scores of different, competing companies. The States know the social and economic shortcomings of the present system but there is little they can do on their own, for they do not have the apparatus to collect the revenue or to disburse the benefits. As in all such reforms it is imperative that the initiative should come from the Federal Government. It has the opportunity and the duty to give a lead. It has the constitutional power. The Solicitor-General,  Mr Byers,  has given an opinion that the scheme we propose is fully within the limits of the Commonwealth's authority. In my experience every opinion  Mr Byers  has given, on legislation or in administration, has been upheld by the High Court. There has never been a successful challenge to any Bill or any action which he has advised. 
The whole thrust of policy under this Government has been to devolve upon the States responsibilities which are properly and traditionally those of the Federal Government. In all this the objective is not so much to bring administration closer to the people or to involve the community in programs of local or regional concern. That m itself would be a proper objective and one supported by the Labor Party. What the Fraser Government has sought to do is reverse the historic consensus of a generation of Australian politics, the principle adhered to by successive Labor and Liberal governments, ever since the Second World War that the prime responsibility for social welfare and security, and for all reforms and initiatives in this field, rests with the Federal Government. As I pointed out last week, that was the underlying motive of the Government in appointing the Bailey and Holmes inquiries into aspects of social welfare. Even the Bailey report, while recommending that the States should have the primary role in operating schemes for rehabilitation, nevertheless proposes that the Commonwealth retain 'a policy, evaluating and funding role'. In any national rehabilitation and compensation scheme worthy of the name, that should be the minimum role for the Federal Government. No Federal Government can in justice ignore its obligation to explore and develop a new system of compensation and rehabilitation, in consultation with the States and the interests concerned, and remove the intolerable shortcomings of the system as it now stands. I believe that the scheme proposed in this Bill is in principle and detail the best that can be devised. How long must the people wait? How long must justice be denied? I commend the Bill to the House. 
-Is the motion seconded? 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

-I was discussing a matter with the  Clerk.  1 did not actually hear the words but I mink that perhaps the honourable member might rephrase the sentence. I think it is one that would be better not said in that way. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
The Manager of Opposition Business in the House, the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes),  has raised the question of interruptions made to the 5 minutes which are an honourable member's right within the adjournment rule covered by one of the notices in my name. Obviously there are problems not only in relation to the 5 minutes but also to other times when from either side of the House it is sought to interject, to raise points of order or to disturb an honourable member's opportunity to speak. It would be unfortunate if that practice were to be abused. However, I see little way in which the Standing Orders themselves can correct it. Indeed it is one of the areas where it is necessary for honourable members themselves to exercise some responsibility. I see little chance of our correcting the Standing Orders to impose responsibility on any individual member of the House if he himself refuses to comply with them. 
The honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson),  speaking as the Opposition Whip, canvassed the question of count-outs. I think it is of interest that on 26 August 1971, the last occasion on which the House of Representatives was counted out, in the 2 divisions prior to the House being so adjourned, the then Labor Party Opposition had present 53 members and then in the next division 29 members. I suggest that members of both sides of the House and not peculiarly the Government have a responsibility to maintain a quorum. I commend again the motions to the House. 
Questions resolved in the affirmative. 
It is with a great deal of pleasure that I rise to support the motion for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply moved by my colleague the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Groom)  and seconded by another colleague the honourable member for Calare  (Mr MacKenzie).  As has been said, it is appropriate that this motion should be moved at this time when  Her  Majesty is in Australia and it is also appropriate that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  should move in this House today a motion in regard to Commonwealth Day which was supported by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  and by the  Deputy  Leader of my own Party, the National Country Party. This is something that we should think about. It is important in these days that we should be reminded of what this motion and some of the traditions of our country and of this House really mean. A number of honourable members have spoken today. Although they did not perhaps quite ridicule some of the traditions of this House they have suggested they were not important. 
As my colleague the honourable member for Wimmera said, they went pretty close to doing so. For example, I can recall the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  talking about Black Rod knocking on the door, the message being passed on, the  Speaker  saying 'Let him enter' and Black Rod announcing the message that the members of the House of Representatives are requested to attend the Senate in the presence of the Queen for the opening of the Parliament. I wonder whether there is a full appreciation of what this really means. This sort of tradition is a protection of the rights of this House of Representatives. It is a protection for every member of the House of Representatives. These things, are not, in my opinion, to be thought of lightly. In the early days the Crown was not allowed to enter the House of Commons. One of the reasons for that practice was that there should be no intimidation of members of the Commons by the Crown. They should have the freedom and the capacity to pass legislation or to refuse certain finance that the Monarch wanted. This prevented, in those days, members being intimidated in any way or being forced to pass legislation. 
We maintain the old tradition of the  Speaker  being escorted reluctantly to the Chair. The reason for that reluctance- it might be rather opportune in the case of the present occupant to mention this matter in the course of the Royal visit- was that the Monarch might order  Mr Speaker's  head to be chopped off. If the  Speaker  took a message back to the Monarch which was not approved of there was a danger that he would suffer 'certain disabilities'. For one thing he would not need to shave again. Today, with all the benefits and privileges associated with the Speakership, the reluctance is not quite as real as it was in those early days. What I am trying to impress upon honourable members is that these traditions indicate the independence and freedom of members of the House of Representatives or, in the situation to which I referred, members of the House of Commons. These traditions are important. We should remind ourselves of them because each embodies a basic principle. 
I am amazed by some of the groups today that keep talking about independence. They say that we should stress it and that we should assert it. Yet those who are standing up and asserting it so strongly are in some instances saying that Her Majesty should have intervened in the situation in which the Governor-General was involved some little while ago. Literally what the Australian Parliament was told then was: 'You are an independent group. It is your responsibility. Your Governor-General is independent. There is no authority for the Crown to interfere in the matter'. Yet those same people who talk about independence and who want it so much are the people who literally ask: 'Why did the Crown not intervene?' As I said, I think it is vital that we should think about these aspects. 
I referred to the statement by the Prime Minister about Commonwealth Day. We should remind ourselves that  Her  Majesty is the Queen of Australia. She is the Head of the Commonwealth of which Australia is a part. As was said by all the speakers earlier this afternoon, this is an important factor in our world situation at the moment. I have had the privilege of attending one or two Commonwealth Parliamentary Association conferences. I think that, with all the weaknesses and with all the handicaps that there may be with our Association, it would be a tragedy not only for the Commonwealth but also for the world if that organisation were weakened. 
I referred to some people who are saying that we should be a republic. The honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  made an interesting and valuable comment when he said that this was irrelevant. I do not quite agree with some of the things he said but I think that the point he made about republicanism was valid. I had a look at some of those people who were outside when the Queen was reviewing the march past. As you know,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  for certain reasons I was not able to be present but I watched the events on television. I must admit that the people displaying banners were a scruffy looking mob. 
-I think that really it would have been an advantage if they had held the banners in front of themselves so that they would not have been seen on the screen. 
As my colleagues have said, they were a vocal minority and they should have been sprayed with DDT. That might have been effective. I think that the only thing one can say about those associated with this republican movement is that they are mental midgets and pseudo academics. One gentleman has never really been very successful, not even when he wrote for a particular magazine. I think that he is trying to show that he has some contribution to make. He is puffing himself up with his own importance. I do not think that he is being very successful. I remind these people that the real value of the monarchy in our system is that it is divorced from the political scene. I remember that at a very important function I attended- a dinner in New York given for  Her  Majesty and the Duke of Edinburgh- a very prominent American said to me: 'You know, if we had a monarch in the United States we would not be in half the trouble that we are in today'. Some of our people need to remind themselves of that fact. It is of tremendous importance and value that the monarchy is separate from the political life of this nation. Amidst all the changes and all the problems confronting us this is one fact of which we can be very proud. 
Of course, we also have a respect for Her Majesty as an individual. Her character, her wisdom and her strength of purpose have been an inspiration to our Commonwealth. I recall her late father and the inspiration that he was to the people of Britain during those dark days of the Second World War. 
Let us look at the value of some of the traditions that we have in this House. Although we do not enforce it, honourable members are required to acknowledge the Chair as they enter and leave the chamber and as they cross in front of the Chair. This has nothing to do with the individual who is occupying the Chair but is a mark of respect for the authority of the Chair. If that were taken away, frankly, this place would not be manageable. I have had the privilege of serving under four magnificent Speakers of this House from Liberal-National Country Party governments and also under  Mr Cope,  and the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  who were Speakers in the previous Labor Government. I pay tribute to both of those gentlemen under whom I had the privilege of serving as a  Deputy Chairman.  They contributed to the stability of this House. These traditions have value and they have meaning. They show courtesy and respect. 
Many people talk about independence. They allow some ratbags to come here from overseas and run their unions. There is not much Australian independence shown in that respect. Men like Carmichael and Halfpenny have no thought for the individual. They are concerned only with their own power. There is not a great deal of independence shown by some of the members of the unions with which those 2 gentlemen are associated. If we maintained and thought a little more about courtesy and consideration, perhaps we might not be in some of the economic troubles that we are in at the present time. I believe that one of the reasons we are facing economic difficulties is that there has been too much thought in this country of 'What is in it for me?' instead of thinking of the contribution that I can make for the progress, development and advancement of the country of which it is my privilege to be a citizen. I think we need to get back towards that attitude. 
As my colleague the honourable member for Darling Downs said, I frankly think that if they started to think of these things, we might be able to make more progress in the industrial situation in Australia. I do not say that the fault is all on one side. Unfortunately some leaders of our industry do not play their part either in the community or in contributing towards peace in industry. I have said that on more than one occasion in this House. On this particular occasion when we are occupied with the Address-in-Reply debate, these are some of the things that we should think about because they are important in our national life. Having said that, I make 2 comments. This morning we had a debate on a matter of public importance initiated by the Opposition alleging the Government's incompetent handling of the Lebanese refugee problem. I do not want to make any comment on that matter nor to revive the debate that was held this morning. I appreciate the Government's problem concerning these countries and the entry of these people into Australia, but I want to comment that I am surprised and disappointed at the attitude of the Government towards the past  President  of Lebanon,  Mr Chamoun,  in that it has been suggested that he delay his visit to this country because of particular reasons. When he was  President, Mr Chamoun  worked for peace in Lebanon and in the surrounding countries.  His  effort always was directed towards the establishment of peace in that area. I am extremely fortunate in the number of distinguished Lebanese that are in my electorate and in the contribution that they have made to community life in that area. Frankly, I see no reason why  Mr Chamoun  should not be allowed to visit this country. I believe that he would make a contribution to the association of Lebanon and Australia. I suggest that the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  and his Department might have a further look at this matter and that the former  President  of Lebanon be allowed to visit Australia. 
I wish to comment briefly on the economic situation. I still believe that it would be an advantage to look at the situation relating to taxation at the present moment and not to wait for a further period. The honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  made a suggestion yesterday which I think has certain value but, of course, like all schemes and ideas it has drawbacks. If one looks at the total economic position, anything that is done by the Arbitration Commission to hold the adjustment of the cost of living and of wages must make a contribution to holding inflation. If agreement can be reached so that the increase is held because of the adjustment in taxation, I believe this would be an advantage to all sections of the community and to Australia. I support the motion in relation to the Speech of  Her  Majesty the Queen with a great deal of pleasure. I have pointed out previously to the House that I was the first member of the House of Representatives to take the oath of allegiance to the Queen at the commencement of her reign. I think that we need to remind ourselves of the privileges, the benefits, the opportunities and also the responsibilities that we have as citizens of this country at this time in our history. 
It is my pleasure this evening to support the statement of the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock).  At the outset let me say that unfortunately the history of civilisation has proved that peace is not achieved merely by wishing for it. 
As my friend the honourable member for Swan said, not even by shouting for it. Peace is achieved when a nation is strong and in many instances when it can speak from a position of strength with the support of arms and allies. That is what my colleagues in the Government are saying on this occasion and what they have said on every other occasion. The honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  said that one of my colleagues here would support the establishment of the naval base at Cockburn Sound because he was a warmonger. That remark shows a complete lack of understanding of the situation. We support the establishment of the Cockburn Sound base because it is urgently needed for the defence of this country in the present circumstances. 
From listening to the words of the Foreign Minister when he was presenting his statement to the House we gained an appreciation of the complex problems that face not only this country but also other countries. That is illustrated by the tragic situation in Northern Ireland at present. I think the events in that country make people realise how tragic history can be. The situation in Northern Ireland has been going on for a long time. The problems should have been eradicated and forgotten generations ago. That situation, which does not benefit the people of that tragic country or the world, was created by bitterness, in some cases by arrogance and intolerance. We should remember that the people in Northern Ireland are fighting against people of the same blood. Not only are the prayers of the people of the world and the efforts of the people of that country needed but the efforts of all people are needed to overcome that situation. This should be remembered when we look at the problems and complexities of the world situation. 
A great deal has been said about  President  Carter's statement concerning the demilitarisation of the Indian Ocean. Not one member on this side of the House would be opposed to the idea of the Indian Ocean being an area of peace, a peace zone or a demilitarised zone, whatever term one may like to use. What this Government has put forward is that a zone of peace will not be created by one nation but by the co-operation of many nations and particularly of two of the major nations- the United States of America and the Soviet Union. If one studies  President  Carter's statement I think one will find that that is just what he said. To that degree there is no contradiction in what was said by the  President  and this Government's policy. What we have said is that if there is no indication of the Soviet Union accepting its responsibilities, the only answer to that is that the United States and other nations must take precautionary measures to see that there is no advantage to the Soviet Union in this area. Whether this will eventuate will be seen in the months that lie ahead, in the response from the Soviet Union to the initiatives taken by the  President  of the United States. I do not think that there is any contradiction either in the attitude of the members of the Government parties at the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association conference held last year. 
I turn now to the situation in Africa and in Asia. What is the answer to the problems facing Rhodesia and South Africa? I must confess that I do not have an answer. In recent months a number of people have said that the people of Rhodesia should be given their independence, that they should be given their freedom and that they should be allowed to rule and control the country themselves. 
Perhaps the major question that could be asked in regard to that is: Which group is to be given the independence? At the moment there are 5 different groups. If control is given to one then the other four would immediately work against that group. This fact is appreciated by Prime Minister Smith. We have to accept that there are extremists in his Cabinet and within his Party. What I think we have to do is to give the moderate element all the support they need to work out a solution that will be to the advantage of all people. In instances where it has appeared that one group is getting greater control there has always been a revolt or a resistance by the other groups, with chaos and confusion in the area. I have said on many occasions in this House in regard to South Africa that the problem is not one of black versus white. The problem is the Bantu against the Zulu. It is black against black; it is black against white; it is black against coloured; it is coloured against white. There is no simple solution to these problems. I remember on one occasion I had an interview with Prime Minister Vorster. He said: 'I wish the people who talk about this apartheid problem would come over and have a look at it. I know the Bantu. I used to swim with them in a creek when I was a kid'. 
This is the position in South Africa. One very highly educated native said to me: 'We go overseas, we go around the world. We are accepted and received by people in every country but when we come back to South Africa we are second-class citizens'. I admit that that is one of greatest problems, but it will not be solved by handing over authority to some people in that country who have no sense of responsibility themselves and who have only a desire to have the power and authority themselves. There is a double standard in some African states. Let us have a look at the position in Uganda and think of Idi Amin. These sorts of people take the power and authority and that is all they are interested in. As I have said, there are these elements in South Africa and in Rhodesia. The problems will not be solved merely by turning around and saying 'That is your independence, you control everything', and walk away and leave them. One man said to me once: 'Yes, but they want their independence'. I said: 'Have a look at Nigeria.' It was set up as an example. What happened in Nigeria? There was a bloodbath. What happened in the Belgian Congo? There was a bloodbath. There was not much value in independence for the thousands of people who had been massacred in both those countries. The position is exactly the same in these African states. I wonder how the relatives of the people whom Idi Amin has massacred feel about the independence that was given to them. 
In the time left to me in this debate I want to say something about the situation in Asia. We in Australia need to realise and appreciate our responsibilities and opportunities in this area. Not the least of our responsibilities is the economic responsibility that we have. When we look at the economic situation in Australia we want to remember some of the things that have been said by some of the leaders in Asia, including Lee Kuan Yew and many others. They have said that it is Australia's responsibility to assist Asian countries. I fully appreciate the need for economic stability in Australia so that our industries are given opportunities, but we must also look ahead and realise that we have to accept responsibility to ensure hat there is economic stability in Asian countries as well. 
I wish to make one brief comment about the United Nations. The Minister has mentioned it in his statement I shall have something further to say on it at a later stage. I believe that we need to think very seriously about the United Nations and our membership of that organisation. I support the Minister's statement and congratulate him on his presentation. 
-Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
Sitting suspended from 5.56 to 8 p.m. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

FOR THOSE WHO HAVE LESS 
Livestock-Rural Development Sponsorship and Child Welfare Australian-Asian Livestock Society Ltd. 18 March 1977. 
V.J. Martin, M.P., House of Representatives, Canberra, A.C.T. 2600. 
Dear Vince 
I have recently returned from attending the General Conference of the International Council of Voluntary Agencies which was held in Leysin, Switzerland. This Conference was not only attended by delegates from Voluntary Agencies but also Extra-Governmental and Inter-Governmental Agencies as well. Australian surplus cattle was one of the matters discussed and delegates were told one million cattle had been shot or left to die in the paddock in the State of Victoria last year and more than that number in other States. Delegates were shocked and angered that the Australian Government had not initiated some practical program to send some of the more productive animals to countries that needed them. This resulted in a Resolution being passed on Food Surpluses which evolved around our surplus cattle and called on all Governments and Inter-Governmental Agencies to take urgent measures to ensure that present food surpluses were not destroyed but transported to areas of need and copies of this Resolution were circulated to certain Members of Parliament. 
For the past twelve months our own Agency has attempted to highlight the fact we had ten million surplus cattle and that millions of them would obviously be written off unless the Government took some positive action to send some of the better breeds to the Third World. Our own Agency has been sending livestock to the Indian Subcontinent for the past twelve years, so we are not without some experience in these matters and today there are one million progeny from gift consignments sent to the Subcontinent over the past twelve years. However, for some inexplicable reason the Fraser Government has ignored the fact we had millions of surplus cattle and that Australia has a moral commitment in a hungry world. Throughout this crisis of surplus cattle, the Government has persisted with a negative program of giving preference to frozen semen without attempting to send any more than 400 of our more productive dairy animals to India, which in no way has matched the effort of our small Agency. It is well known on the Subcontinent and in most other industrial countries that there is not the technology to handle frozen semen in the rural areas nor are deep-freeze containers or liquid nitrogen available. In addition the conception rate utilizing frozen semen is only half that of fresh semen. The Australian Government is the only industrial country which thinks this way and by so doing ignores their responsibilities regarding our surplus cattle. 
In 1972 when I was a Member of the McMahon Government, our Agency requested Government assistance to meet the transport costs on 126 head of dairy cattle to the Government of Bangladesh which were the first cattle to be sent to the new Republic. The then Foreign Minister, Nigel Bowen was advised against it and I was subsequently told they would not survive and that no funds were available. Eventually the German Government chartered an aircraft to fly the first consignment of Australian cattle to Bangladesh. However, these cattle did not die, they quickly grew and multiplied and today we have many hundreds of progeny to prove how successful this project has been. 
My own Agency has pure bred Friesians on a desolate island in the Bay of Bengal which are doing as well as those on the mainland and all this runs counter to the opinion expressed by the Australian Government at that time. 
Through lack of initiative we missed a wonderful opportunity of being associated with a practical program of helping the new Republic of Bangladesh set up a viable cattle breeding program. Three years later they have opted out for a frozen semen program and it is very doubtful whether this will prove to be a success, mainly because additional breeding cows are required. It is obvious the present people advising the Australian Government have little knowledge of the tremendous potential in the private sector of the Subcontinent. They continue to strongly recommend frozen semen, whilst many farmers in Australia have gone back to more conventional breeding programs. 
If these countries are ever to become self-sufficient in milk production, this can only be achieved through cross breeding and by building up the potential in the private sector. 
The Australian Government is possibly the only Government in the Industrial world that has not realised the vast potential in the private sector and this is indicated by the fact that no more than a few cattle have been sent into the private sector of these countries. All donor countries today channel vast sums of money through NGOs as they know such aid does not go into some prestige Government project but more so into the private sector where it is more effectively utilized. 
Today our own Agency is able to obtain grants from a number of Foreign Aid Agencies to send livestock to the Indian Sub-Continent, yet our own Government continues to ignore our repeated requests. They continue to say it is impractical to send large numbers of cattle into these countries which is contrary to what other Governments think and are in fact doing. 
It is little wonder the dairying industry in Australia is in such a hopeless mess as the present Government seems to be only interested in promoting frozen semen and skim milk powder and completely ignores the fact we have thousands of good productive cattle surplus to our requirements which are urgently needed in these countries. By sending some of our better breeds of cattle, Australia could have created a big demand for livestock from overseas countries. This is in fact what other countries have already achieved and unless immediate action is taken this potential market will be lost to Australian farmers. 
As a Society that has been working at grass roots level on the Sub-Continent for the past fifteen (15) years we must completely refute the statement made by the Foreign Minister in his letter to  Senator Kathy  Martin on 17th December, 1976 in which he states 'It is neither economic nor practical to send large numbers of cattle to the Indian Sub-Continent'. During the past three years, Sri Lanka, a small country in comparison with India and Pakistan, has purchased thousands of dairy cattle and another eight hundred will be sent there later this year. India, over the same period, has received thousands of cattle from Europe and North America, which is contrary to what the Ministries of Foreign Affairs and Primary Industry continue to advocate. 
I have, in recent weeks, returned from a further visit to the Indian Sub-Continent during which time, accompanied by livestock specialists from these countries, inspected farms that could handle 10,000 Australian cattle as soon as they could be sent. The Pakistan Government has written requesting 10,000 of our surplus cattle. However, the Foreign Minister has informed them that such cattle would have to be paid for out of their present Aid Commitment (which is 3.2 million dollars). This would mean they would have to provide 1.8 million dollars from their own funds to obtain 10 000 head of cattle as the CIF cost of landing one animal in Pakistan is $500. The same message has also been conveyed to the Government of India, which is proportionately far worse off as they will only be receiving 6.9 million dollars in the current fiscal year. The total amount to both countries comes to 10.1 million dollars which would barely erect a 500 bed hospital in Melbourne or Sydney. It is obvious the Minister was not motivated by compassion when this offer was made and is contrary to Aid Policies of all other Donor countries. 
The 31st General Assembly of the United Nations, at its Plenary Session on the 21st December, 1976 has now proclaimed 1979 the 'International Year of the Child', and it would be futile for the Commonwealth Government to join any International Committees to plan for the 'Year of the Child ' whilst it stands idly by and writes off tens of thousands of good productive cows whilst thousands of children starve to death every day because they have no milk to drink. 
Few countries have ever been better situated than we are at the present time with our large numbers of surplus cattle to make a significant contribution to coincide with the International Year of the Child '. By sending thousands of our better breeds to these countries, we could make a positive contribution that would be long remembered. Never again this century will we have so many dairy cattle surplus to our requirements and for that very same reason never again will we be in a better position to help these countries obtain some of our better breeds of animals. 
The cow is the foster mother of most of the world 's hungry children and Australia would receive wide acclaim if we initiated a program of sending thousands of our more productive cows to Third World countries to establish pilot projects to ensure that the hungry child would be fed. 
If some positive action is taken we could send tens of thousands of our cattle to these countries where they would soon become a living symbol of our generosity and help for many years to come and I cannot think of a more practical program to mark Australia's contribution during the 'International Year of the Child'. 
We appeal to you as a Member of Parliament to see the position in its true perspective and help initiate a positive program to send a minimum number of 10 000 dairy heifers and bulls to the Indian Sub-Continent whilst they are still available in large numbers. If these countries are ever to grapple more effectively with their great human problems we must all do something over and above all else, and I do urge you to raise this matter in the Party Room and in Parliament so that positive action may result. 
Yours sincerely, L.S. Reid. President. 
Australian surplus cattle was one of the matters discussed and delegates - 
That is delegates at the Conference he attended in Switzerland-  were told one million cattle had been shot or left to die in the paddock in the State of Victoria last year and more than that number in other States. Delegates were shocked and angered that the Australian Government had not initiated some practical program to send some of the more productive animals to countries that needed them. 
He went on to state: 
For the past twelve months our own Agency - 
That is For Those Who Have Less-  has attempted to highlight the fact that we had ten million surplus cattle and that millions of them would obviously be written off unless the Government took some positive action to send some of the better breeds to the Third World. 
He went on: 
The Australian Government is the only industrial country which thinks this way and by so doing ignores their responsibilities regarding our surplus cattle. 
I will quote another important part of what  Mr Reid  said in his letter to myself and to all other members of the Parliament. He said: 
The Australian Government is possibly the onlyGovernment in the industrial world that has not realised the vast potential in the private sector and this is indicated by the fact that no more than a few cattle have been sent into the private sector of these countries. 
The countries to which he is referring are the developing countries. He went on to say: 
I have, in recent weeks, returned from a further visit to the Indian Sub-Continent during which time, accompanied by livestock specialists from these countries, inspected farms that could handle 10 000 Australian cattle as soon as they could be sent. The Pakistan Government has written requesting 10 000 of our surplus cattle. However, the Foreign Minister has informed them that such cattle would have to be paid for . . . 
Surely what I have read from the letter is a shocking indictment of the lack of action by this Government. The letter was written by a person of the same political persuasion as this Government. In fairness to  Mr Reid  I must point out that during his time in this Parliament as the Liberal Member for Holt when his own party was in power he made the same pleas in this Parliament as I am making tonight. But his pleas were to no avail even though he was a supporter of that Government. I am convinced that if we had more people like  Mr Reid  in the present Government ranks maybe some positive action would be taken by the Government. 
The challenge is there for the younger supporters of the Government- younger in terms of the short time for which they have been here- to get off their backsides. The newer members should try to do something for their unfortunate brothers in the developing countries. They can do something in the short period of time that they have left in this House as members of Parliament because I am afraid that most of them will not be here after the next election. 
Another example of the lack of concern and foresight displayed by the Government is the advocacy of the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  for cattlemen to withhold their cattle from the market in an effort to force up the price. That is a strange statement for the right honourable gentleman to make because if a union leader urged his members to withdraw their labour I am certain that the  Deputy  Prime Minister would be up in arms and would class such action as an irresponsible strike. We have a person who holds the position of  Deputy  Prime Minister of this country advocating that cattlemen withhold their stock from the market. Apparently he applies different values to his actions in respect of cattlemen from those he applies when he union bashes. The right honourable gentleman is not alone in this because most Government supporters union bash. But surely if there is any decency within the ranks of the people who represent the Government in this place they would realise that the  Deputy  Prime Minister was advocating that the cattlemen should go on strike and withhold their cattle from the market irrespective of the inconvenience that they may cause to the rest of the community. As I have said, apparently he puts different values on their actions compared with the values and responsibilities he tries to place on leaders of unions. 
In reply to a question in this House on 10 March 1977 the Deputy Prime Minister suggested that by withholding cattle from sale a price increase of $10 to $20 per beast could be obtained with the resultant net increase in the retail price of lc to 2c a lb. They were his words, not mine. Obviously the Deputy Prime Minister knows little about cattle, which is understandable as he is a pig farmer. I do not mean to imply that pig farming is a dishonourable occupation but I suggest that the right honourable gentleman stick to a subject about which he has a greater knowledge. 
The  Deputy  Prime Minister has been disowned even by his own supporters, including no less a person than  Major Harold  Conkey from Wagga, a true blue Tory if ever there was one. 
He stated that such strike action as advocated by the Deputy Prime Minister would only worsen the situation where many producers were already holding surplus stock on their properties. He also stated that you do not get rid of surplus stock by retaining it. That is a very trite statement, but it is a fairly objective one and it happens to be a true one. There are many other critics too numerous for me to mention in the short space of time still available to me. I highlighted the situation about the possibility of surplus cattle in Australia being sent to developing countries. I suggest to the Deputy Prime Minister that he might give greater thought to that and less thought to withholding stocks from the market with the idea of trying to force up the price. In conclusion, I would say that the answer is quite clear. This Government does not have the answers. I suggest that it should get out now and let a Labor government rectify the situation. 
-Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
Development  (Mr Newman)  has misrepresented me in a number of instances. Firstly, he said that I made some statements in this House that copies were being withheld. I asked the  Speaker  why copies were not available in the Bills and Papers Office after having requested a copy and being informed that no copies were available at that time. Subsequently that day copies were made available. The Minister on two or three occasions during his speech referred to that request. What he said is a complete distortion of what was said on that occasion. I repeat that copies were not available readily to members on the presentation of the report. One copy only was available and it was some time afterwards that copies became available. 

 Mr NEWMAN (Bass-Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development)- With your indulgence,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I think I should answer that. The honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  at the end of question time implied to honourable members and to those people listening outside the House that somehow copies of the Fox report were not available. He said that he had gone to the Bills and Papers Office and could not get a copy. In reply to that assertion the  Speaker  wrote to the honourable member for Corio on 16 March and made the position clear. I would like to quote a relevant part of this letter which for the information of everyone could be incorporated in  Hansard.  The letter stated: 
The demand from members for copies has slowed to a trickle this year and the House Department still holds 7 of the additional copies supplied. Of these 7 copies, one was in the Bills and Papers Office and it was this copy that was sent to you in the Chamber on Thursday with the request that as it was the ' tagged ' copy it would be appreciated if it could be returned when you no longer had need of it. 
The remaining 6 copies of the report had been in the Attendants box at the back of the Chamber until the previous Friday - 
I seek leave to incorporate the letter in  Hansard  so it is in the record for everybody to see. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
For instance, many East Timorese families are divided and are living in different parts of the world. East Timorese women who are employed in Australia are keeping their husbands who are living in East Timor. The Minister might close his eyes to this situation, but later in my speech I will refer to East Timorese women who are sending money to East Timor to keep their husbands and whose children are in other countries. The difficulty, of course, is that once again we have acted reluctantly. Our actions have led to complications that I will spell out to honourable members. 
I would like to read for the information of the Minister the terms used in the communique. Paragraph 15 of the communique states: 
The Prime Minister noted that another aspect of the human suffering caused by the conflict had been the plight of the refugees - 
Not evacuees-  who had gone to Australia without their families. The  President  and the Prime Minister agreed that officials of their two countries would be meeting to resolve the problem of their refugees. 
Again the word 'evacuees' was not used. The problem that we face is the definition to be applied to East Timorese people. We have the example also of Lebanese and Cypriot people who have been denned as displaced people. Once the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs has this matter well in hand we will be able to get down to obtaining a literal interpretation of what is an evacuee and what is a refugee. 
I hope and trust that we will see a far more flexible interpretation of 'refugee'. This matter is worthy of urgent consideration because of the plight in which the East Timorese people find themselves. We have seen the break-up of the family unit with family members being spread all over the world. In some instances children are now living in Hong Kong, husbands in East Timor and wives in Australia where they are earning a living to supply the wherewithal to enable their families to exist. I think it is worth asking whether this sort of existence is desired by the people concerned. I have proof that families are placed in such circumstances. I believe that the advantages of such an existence are doubtful and dubious and that, therefore, the Australian Government has to do much more than it is doing at the moment. It has to go much further than what has been outlined in the Minister's statement. 
The Minister talks about the limited area of the classification of people who wish to enter this country. He talks about spouses, minor dependent children and parents of Australian residents. He talks also about relatives who have employment skills and experience recognised and in demand in Australia. 
Another problem that I see in the Minister's statement is the question of restricted categories. I might say that this is a very serious problem. The point here, of course, is that when we allow bureaucrats to have an inch of latitude in respect of the literal interpretation of the word 'refugee', humanitarian interests flow out the door because someone is more interested in keeping his job. I have seen this happen in a number of areas throughout the world where refugee problems are involved. 
I believe that the question of interpretation is a very serious impediment in giving effect to our obligation to the Timorese people. I think the principle that was spelled out in the first instance was good. However, on behalf of the Opposition, I take exception to the vague and interpretative decisions that have flowed since from that principle. 
It seems to me that the closing date for the receipt of nominations is another facade. People have precisely 23 days, for God 's sake, in which to do something for the people in East Timor. That is fantastic. My heart bleeds for the Minister. He is a busy man, I know, but there are people who are in incredible positions arising out of the Timorese situation. Both sides of the Parliament ought to be looking at themselves in terms of the responsibility they have in this question. The Minister is engaged in some conversation. I hope he will listen to me. It is heartrending to think of the plight of the East Timorese people spread throughout the length and breadth of the world arising out of the conflict in East Timor. We ought to be falling over backwards to ensure that we spread ourselves as far as possible to ensure that justice is done in each case. 
For the Minister to hide behind the definition of evacuee as against refugee as he does in his statement does not do his cause justice. If the statement was prepared for him I am sure that he must have overlooked the use of the word evacuees' or he has not read the joint communique of the Prime Minister and Soeharto. There is a distinct difference between an evacuee and a refugee. It might be said that this is a minor criticism and that I am being pedantic about words, but really the interpretation of such words is in fact a difficulty that a lot of people have run up against when endeavouring to deal with the problem we are discussing. I draw the Minister's attention to paragraph 15 of the joint communique issued by the Information Service of the Embassy of Indonesia to spell out what I am saying. 
The categories of people acceptable for immigration ought to be extended at the Minister's discretion. Knowing the Minister well, I am sure his heart would bleed for people who are in a difficult situation. It seems to me that these categories ought to be interpreted in a wider sense, but the criteria should not restrict the Minister's capacity to make sure that there is no impediment to reuniting families which have been divided as a result of this terrible thing that has occurred in East Timor. 
Last but not least, I implore the Minister to disregard the condition of 23 days. It ought to be an extended time. Why should there be a time on the receipt of nominations? There are people who cannot communicate - 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The document read as follows- 29 March 1977 
Dear  Dr Jenkins, 
In response to a question you asked me without notice today, I undertook to provide you with further information regarding a questionnaire received in my Department from twenty two members of the staff of the Secretary's Division of the Bureau of Roads. 
I have now determined the facts relating to the questionnaire and these are set out below. 
On 17 November 1976 I announced the formation of a new body attached to the Department of Transport to be called the Bureau of Transport Economics and indicated, amongst other things, that the functions of the new body would include the existing functions of the Bureau of Roads and the Bureau of Transport Economics. 
Within a few days of that announcement the Secretary of my Department visited the Bureau of Roads' premises in Melbourne and addressed the staff. 
On 30 November 1976 the Secretary of my Department received a letter from the  Chairman  of the Bureau of Roads enclosing a questionnaire prepared by staff of the Secretary's Division of the Bureau. 
The Secretary of my Department referred that letter to his First Assistant Secretary, Management Services, for appropriate action. 
Early in December 1976 the First Assistant Secretary, Management Services, visited the Bureau of Roads and held discussions with the Secretary of the Bureau. The Secretary of the Bureau is in charge of the Bureau's Secretary's Division from which the questionnaire originated. 
In January 1977 the First Assistant Secretary, Management Services, held discussions with the Australian Public Service Association (Fourth Division Officers). 
During the discussions held by the Secretary of my Department and his First Assistant Secretary, undertakings were given to the staff of the Bureau that, in accordance with Government policies, provision would be made  to  safeguard  the rights of officers and employees of the Bureau. It was also indicated that the Department had commenced negotiations with the Public Service Board on the machinery of transfer of non-Public Service Act staff from the Bureau of Roads to the Department. 
In January 1977 a joint departmental/Public Service Board review team was established to develop the organisation structure of the new Bureau of Transport Economics. This review is still proceeding. During the course of the review staff at all levels of both Bureaux have been given the opportunity to contribute to the development of the new structure and action is currently being taken to give all staff an opportunity to comment on the proposed organisation. Also, during this review further consultations were held with representatives of staff from all areas of the Bureau of Roads with particular emphasis on the matters raised in the questionnaire. 
On 15 March 1977 a letter was sent from my Department to the  Chairman  of the Bureau of Roads referring specifically to the questionnaire from the staff of the Secretary's Division of the Bureau. In this letter the  Chairman  was asked to let my Department know if there are any matters which the staff of the Secretary's Division considered to be still unanswered. I might add that the Secretary of the Bureau of Roads has joined with officers of my Department during recent discussions with officers of the Public Service Board relating to staffing aspects of the amalgamation. 
In conclusion, I would like to say that some of the matters raised by staff of the Secretary's Division cannot be finally resolved until the ultimate organisation for the new Bureau has been approved and implemented. I am confident, however, that the rights of all staff are being fully protected and you have my assurance that I will keep you fully informed of all significant developments. 
Yours sincerely, P. J. NIXON 
Having said that because it is relative to what the staff communicated to me I would like now to refer to correspondence that I received from my local government body because I think it serves as the basis of this consideration. In a letter of December 1976 the Council of the City of Preston thanked me for supporting its campaign to retain the Bureau as an independent statutory authority able to prepare expert reports on road needs in this country. That is where the emphasis is as it concerns this local government authorityon road needs of the whole of the country and of the road needs of its area in particular. The letter goes on to point out that the need for such an organisation is borne out by the trend of events. The letter reads: 
The level of Commonwealth financial assistance, in real terms, is decreasing constantly and a greater portion of the taxes levied on the motorist is being absorbed into general revenue. 
That opens up another avenue that a body such as this should be dealing with and the old userpays principle should be spelled out. How do we define this? Do we just leave it to general revenue? The letter continues: 
The Bureau of Roads has commented that if resources are directed from roads indefinitely while traffic continues to grow, road allocations will need to be boosted substantially to overcome the backlog. Local government, because it is dependent basically on property taxes, does not have the same capacity to increase revenue as State and Federal Governments. Even so, local government met 38 per cent of road costs in 1974-75. 
With the devolution under this Government another factor comes into the picture, because local government bodies are going to be even further deprived by the manner in which finance will reach them through the Grants Commission. One would like to examine the submissions that were made recently to the Grants Commission to see whether every factor that affects local government was put by the Government to the Grants Commission. One would like to see whether, for example, environmental factors were considered in relation to transport and other functions of local government. 
Debate interrupted. 
-Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
Question put: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

PRICES AND INCOMES RESTRAINT 
The Heads of the Commonwealth and all State Governments, meeting in Premiers' Conference in Canberra today, unanimously called for a three month halt in price and wage increases. They agreed that such restraint was urgently needed if Australia is to overcome its current economic problems. 
It was agreed that all Heads of Governments will approach employer and professional organisations and put to them the proposal that their membership should voluntarily commit themselves to a pause for a period of 3 months from increases in the prices of their goods and services. At the same time, all Heads of Governments will be making an approach to the A.C.T.U. and other employee organisations to seek a voluntary commitment to a 3 months pause from wage increases. 
Governments would not expect either the business organisations or the union organisations to agree to such voluntary restraint arrangements without agreement by the others. 
Immediately following agreement to the proposal for a voluntary general pause from increases in prices and incomes approaches would be made to the Arbitration Commission and the Prices Justification Tribunal for the implementation of the general pause. 
Governments would also use their influence and the powers available to them towards achieving a successful outcome. Governments will commit themselves to not increasing their own charges during the period of the pause. Local Government will be expected to do likewise. 
All Heads of Government commit themselves to work for this voluntary pause. Upon its achievement a further conference of Heads of Government will be held to consider what further steps should be taken. 
The Heads of Government called on all members of the Australian community to give full support to this vital endeavour to help overcome inflation. 
M. Fraser, Prime Minister 
Neville Wran, Premier of New South Wales 
J. Hamer, Premier of Victoria 
Bjelke-Petersen, Premier of Queensland 
A. Dunstan, Premier of South Australia 

 Sir Charles Court, Premier of Western Australia 
A. Neilson, Premier of Tasmania 
Canberra, 13 April 1977 
It is an encouraging sign that out of all the squabbling which characterises the Premiers ' Conference should come unanimous support for a three-month voluntary pause in wages and prices. Indeed, it is hard to remember any major act of economic policy which has won the unqualified support of a Prime Minister and six State Premiers. There is certainly little room for doubt that wage and price inflation lies at the heart of the economic malaise which has gripped this country for so long. Any attempt to bring about an abatement in the rate of inflation, particularly one based on cooperation and mutual sacrifice, must be a worthy objective. No one could wish it anything but success. 
It is indeed most regrettable that we have seen in this House today that there is still a miniscule number of Opposition representatives of the Australian people who are not prepared to have at heart the interests of the nation and the constituents whom they allegedly represent. Not only have representatives of every major employer group in the nation pledged their support but also a growing list of companies and organisations have done likewise. They intend to hold their prices at the present level- at the level which applied before the decision was made last Wednesday. By so doing they have demonstrated their willingness to absorb the effects of wage increases. The wage-price freeze clearly requires the total co-operation of all sections of the community, and in particular, the support of the trade union movement is critical. 
During question time today the Prime Minister was given the opportunity to emphasise some of the specifics in regard to this proposal. May I enunciate a few of them for the benefit of the 
House. Pensions are not affected. The Government's decision to pass on the full 8 per cent consumer price index increase in respect of pensions will be followed through on 1 May of this year. At the same time, however, obviously prices for items which have been imported cannot be affected in this manner. However, importers who import goods after the commencement of the freeze are expected to abide by the understanding on a voluntary basis. Similarly, the $5.70 wage increase which was decided upon by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission only a few weeks ago will flow into the wage system. No attempt has been made to affect that. Similarly, those award agreements which have been accepted by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission will go into the system as well. The Government has kept its promise to the States. We are not going to involve the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission before we have done all in our power to carry out detailed negotiations with both employers and employees. The negotiations with employers were completed some time ago and the Government has already made a promise that at 12.30 p.m. tomorrow appropriate ministers are prepared to see all the major roof employee organisations here in Canberra to discuss the matter with them further. Nevertheless, the Government had to appear before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission this morning as did the Australian Council of Trade Unions and other organisations. We were required to do so by virtue of the fact that the Commission called the Government before it. The Prime Minister has emphasised the fact that it is the intention of the Government to carry out to the full, in every sense of the letter, the full agreement entered into by himself and the State Premiers last Wednesday. The gesture of the 7 heads of Government was undoubtedly a determined attempt to achieve a significant reduction in our current rate of inflation, which obviously is hurting and will continue to hurt all segments of the Australian community. 
It is depressing to think that those members of the Opposition who believe they stand for compassion and concern are prepared to go against the clearly enunciated belief of the vast majority of the Australian people that inflation is our major enemy and that they are prepared to do all in their power, as individuals and as members of the community, to break the nexus which I mentioned earlier between constant increases in prices and wages and, therefore, further increases in inflation. The Commonwealth Government is also conforming with the heads of Government agreement to stop all previously scheduled increases in its own charges. For example, we have frozen Commonwealth hostel costs and increases in rents of defence forces housing. It is indeed very good to see that various State Premiers, including the Premier of New South Wales, have been prepared also to bring down a freeze on their own costs. We anticipate and sincerely hope that local government will also follow suit in terms of rates and taxes. 
Furthermore, the Government has now proposed that, in the event of a broad agreement being reached on the prices and incomes freeze question, a special group comprising representatives of employers, unions and the Prices Justification Tribunal will be formed to continue an on-going advisory function to the Government which will enable us to examine amendments to the Prices Justification Act where they are considered necessary. Wage restraint is the major objective of this exercise, combined with a freezing of increases in costs. In this regard, it is worth noting that the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  has also requested the Prices Justification Tribunal to monitor voluntary price pauses in the community and to investigate any claims that increases in prices have occurred and also to encourage the deferring of decisions on price increases. The Minister has also said that where companies have notified price increases to the Prices Justification Tribunal and the 2 1 days in which the Tribunal has to examine these increases has elapsed, he will be approaching them directly with the objective of requesting that they do not pass on those proposed price increases. 
The Government is determined that this voluntary exercise will be carried out with all the possible persuasion at its command but I must emphasise what I said earlier: This is voluntary. This agreement brings together for the first time, probably since World War II, a national consensus. We need to inspire every Australian regardless of the political allegiance in the expectation that by working together we can break the back of this national menace. Why, only the other day a survey of a thousand people was carried out in Sydney and Melbourne. Of that number, 76 per cent of unionists and 74 per cent of non-unionists favoured a freeze because they believed that it would peg prices and, therefore, a reduction of wages through their pegging was something worth while. Only 4.5 per cent of unionists and 3 per cent of the non-unionists questioned considered that a wages and prices freeze was a bad idea. For the first time for many years we do face a potential national consensus. 
As I said earlier, this should not be a cynical political exercise but it must succeed if we are to overcome the fundamental difficulties facing Australia. Regrettably there are members of the Opposition, such as the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  and the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  who sees himself as a future Leader of the Opposition, who do not agree with the program. 
The Deputy Leader of the Opposition wants to see a price freeze only. Why would he want to see a price freeze only? How can the link between price increases and wage increases be ignored? As I understand it, back in 1973 and 1974 Premier Hamer at Premiers Conferences offered to the Prime Minister of the time the concept of a voluntary prices and wages freeze. Most of the States at the time were prepared to consider the proposal seriously, but regrettably the then Government, taking the view, as it always did, that all power has to reside in Canberra, decided to seek a change to the Constitution and bring to the Commonwealth Parliament power over wages and prices. It is a matter of record that the Australian people were not prepared to accept that proposition. But they are prepared to accept a voluntary price and wage freeze. That is what this Government is asking them to accept, and it is what all the State Premiers, Labor and Liberal alike, are asking their people to accept. 
The not inconsiderable persuasion power at our disposal will be totally committed to ensuring that this exercise is successful. We will not fail the Australian people. They deserve better than that. They deserve better than politicians who want to offer them the world but know full well that they cannot deliver the goods. They deserve better than the political hypocrites who go before the people time after time hoping that by so doing they can delude them long enough. It is not a case of religion being the opiate of the masses, a remark once made by Marx; it is a case of politics without principle being the opiate of the masses. 
We have seen today, as we saw last Wednesday, the Premiers of all the States and the Australian Government combining in a most unsordid act to see that this exercise succeeds. It is only on the basis of consensus that success can be shared by the entire Australian people. It is only fair for me to note that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  took the view- the correct one- that although he was not altogether enthusiastic about this proposal, nevertheless it should be given a trial. In his television interview of last week he said: 
Since 7 heads of government from both sides of the political fence have decided that things are so bad that we need a freeze then we should give it an adequate trial. 
That is at least an Australian point of view- give it a fair go. That is why we are here and that is why the Australian people elected us. The policies which are directed at improving the lot of all Australians, regardless of their wealth or position in society, can be achieved only by defeating the obvious national problem of inflation. That should be clear to us all. The expectation of inflation which has been dogging our steps for so long must be broken, but this can be done only in the minds of every individual Australian. On this occasion I ask the Australian nation to pull together to make sure that we show those who follow us the stuff of which this generation is made. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Darling) (8. 1 )- I think it is true to say that members of this Parliament and the Australian public are not as interested in population trends of our country as they should be at present. I believe that our economic problems, such as the price and wage freeze, our record unemployment and inflation, have taken our minds off our population trends. I think we should be aware that just because population trends are out of our minds they do not cease to exist or to be of importance. The Green Paper on immigration policies and Australia's population should remind us all that we should be taking more notice of population trends. It should remind us that other matters besides our economic health are important to our welfare and can be forgotten only at our own peril. 
The preface of this Green Paper on immigration policies and Australia's population indicates that the size, composition and distribution of our population will have a major influence on the nature of our future society. It will also have a major influence on our capacity to achieve our personal and national objectives. If we close our minds and eyes to the problems of the pressing necessity of a large part of the undeveloped world- much of it a starving world- we will no doubt shelve our immigration problem with probably the excuse that because we have a high percentage of unemployed we cannot allow more migrants to enter the country. Certainly consideration should be given to the large number of unemployed. But if we make a decision only out of concern for this tragic situation, although it may be a popular decision it could be of lasting disadvantage to this country. As a result of my visits overseas as a delegate to the Inter-Parliamentary Union and after discussions with delegates from all the parliaments of the world, I would say that internationally Australia continues to be recognised as a nation of great wealth and a nation of great potential. In the eyes of over-populated countries it is seen as a nation with a potential to support many more millions of people. I believe that the vast majority of Australians believe that Australia has great promise and potential. In discussions with overseas visitors they point out the vastness of this country and its national advantages. 
It seems to be a traditional belief that Australia will expand and prosper. Strangely enough, there also seems to be a belief that our population will increase naturally. This is an odd belief because reports on the subject tend to make the opposite forecast. I believe that it would be a shock to most people to read the first report of the National Populaton Inquiry which projected a population by the year 2001 of 15.9 million people. That is at the present rate of immigration intake. If we consider this in conjunction with our present population of 13.6 million, which is one hundredth of the world's population of 4000 million, and the fact that we live in an area comparable with that of the United States of America which has a population of 216 million, we can get some idea of why it is hard to convince developing nations that we are doing all we should be doing to assist them out of their present tragic circumstances. I do not say that that is the only consideration that should be taken into account when we are looking at altering our immigration intake. It seems to me that speakers from both sides of the House do not appear to be advocating an all-out immigration policy. That would take us outside the living standard that our resources can provide. I do not advocate this policy. In any case, I believe that it should not be necessary to do so because the report of the National Population Inquiry concluded that resources are not likely to impose a ceiling upon the population that could be carried by this country. 
I believe that we must be aware of the large numbers of Australians who are opposed to recruitment of migrants to meet labour or skilled worker shortages in certain areas. There is no doubt that this fear comes from the knowledge that Australia already has a large number of unemployed. Many workers see migrants as a threat to job opportunities, either to themselves or to members of their families. I believe that we can say that this fear is understandable when 346 668 Australians are out of work. Of course we should give some assurances to Australians on this matter. We should make it known that we reject the proposition that immigration can be used to solve economic difficulties or that it should provide an underpinning of unskilled labour to be hired or fired at the whim of an industry, whether in a time of full employment or in a time of high unemployment. However, in conjunction with proper training schemes for our present Australian population, I believe that immigrants with special skills and employment prospects should be given special consideration. In accordance with these principles, a moderate level of immigration should be proposed with special consideration given to parents and dependants of former settlers. Persons with special skills and employment prospects should be given encouragement. Political refugees also should be given special consideration. This has already been touched on by previous speakers. There should be no discrimination on the grounds of race, nationality, politics, sex or creed. 
Additional to this, to prove that this has been done with good intent and not to find a way out of some bad previous planning, existing and prospective shortages of skills should be overcome by wider opportunities for training and improved forward planning to assess future needs. Training should be offered to unskilled adults including former settlers, bearing in mind that unskilled workers are likely to face increasing difficulties in securing employment, whether they are old or new Australians. It should be remembered that throughout the post-war period serious shortfalls in various skills occurred, even in times of high unemployment. I believed that the Regional Employment Development schemes were a good example of this. In many areas where RED schemes were invoked various shire officials informed me that they would have employed a larger number of unskilled workers if they had the skilled workers to do the specialised parts of the projects. 
I notice that on page 8 of the Green Paper it states that the shortage of skilled workers is likely to continue due to the small number of apprenticeships and the future demand for particular skills and the locations where they will be needed. The nature and extent of future manpower demands are difficult to predict. We have had instances of past over-supply of some skills and serious shortages of others. It is often pointed out that this will occur in the mining industry where there is a likelihood of another mining boom. There will be a big shortage of skilled miners. It must be admitted that apprenticeships do a lot to solve many of these problems. But unfortunately regardless of which government is in power there is a big wastage of trained apprentices. They often finish their times and serve 12 months and go into some other kind of occupation. That is regrettable because it is often the brightest boys who get apprenticeships and there is not a great deal that anyone can do about that. 
The distribution of population in Australia is as important as its total size and rate of growth.  Major country  towns and smaller capital cities can cope with growth better than can the large cities of Sydney and Melbourne. This is both in respect of economic costs and social wellbeing. Immigrants have tended to locate in the inner city areas of our larger cities, where amenities are already overstretched. I believe that special encouragement should be given to migrants to take up residence in country towns and the smaller capital cities. Support should be given to regional growth centres so as to widen employment and residential choice and to reduce the pressures in the existing major urban conglomerations. We should aim to ensure economic and social justice for all members of the community, whatever their origins, to eliminate inequalities of opportunities between social groups and to protect and enhance the physical environment. Short term expediency should not be allowed to imperil the quality of life of future generations. Our immigration policy should always be balanced with these considerations. 
Understanding of population dynamics is essential for sound planning of every aspect of the economy. People are the primary concern and their needs and desires should be paramount. We should demonstrate our sincerity in this regard to both the immigrant and the older Australian citizen. The rate of growth of Australia's population is in large part determined by the age structure and social values of the community. We should recognise that governments are not able, nor should they be willing, to influence greatly the natural increase. This is the right of the people themselves. 
Immigration is the second major component of population growth and it is here that the rate of growth should be regulated to allow the maximum welfare of the present community and those who make their homes here. The rate of population growth will always be subject to fluctuations and despite efforts towards a stable pattern, it will continue to fluctuate. Other speakers have claimed that immigration cannot be turned on and off but it seems to me that the facts of life would indicate that we cannot leave the gates wide open irrespective of how much we would like to admit people from the developing countries. By the same token, it would be totally wrong for us to slam the gates closed. I believe that the Government must ensure that its economic and social policies are sufficiently flexible to allow for these fluctuations. We should recognise the valuable contribution being made by migrants to Australia's economic growth, prosperity and culture. We should support an immigration policy administered with - 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

KAREN CHRISTINE GREEN (by her next friend PATRICIA ANN TRUMAN) 
-It being 10.30 p.m., in accordance with the order of the House of 10 March, I propose the question: 
That the House do now adjourn. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Darling) (10.30)- I raise a matter that is a continuing issue in my electorate. It is the matter of communications. A few weeks ago I informed the House of the problems with television coverage in isolated areas in my electorate. I have sent several letters to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  on this matter. On every occasion I have been informed that it is impossible to extend the television coverage in these isolated areas because of the cost factor. But owing to pressure from the United Farmers and Wool Growers Association, various shires and Lions International, I approached the Minister to send to my electorate a high official from Telecom Australia to explain to the people the problems connected with supplying television to these areas. Unfortunately this request was dismissed out of hand. The Government probably has some problems in getting television coverage to these isolated areas but it is going a bit too far when it dismisses out of hand a genuine request like this from organisations. I ask that the Government have another look at this problem and send someone to talk to these people because the problem of isolation might not be as big as the Government thinks it is. 
I bring up another problem concerning communications. It concerns country newspapers and in particular the  Lachlander,  a small newspaper based at Condobolin. In October 1973 I mentioned the fact that there was an attack on this newspaper by a large Orange based company, Western Newspapers Ltd, which was trying to take over this small country newspaper. I am happy to say that the newspaper is still being published, but unfortunately the husband of the family who was running it has since passed away and the newspaper is being published by  Mrs Rider-  Wood and an invalid son, who is the photographer. They are doing a very good job, but unfortunately the cost -especially the cost of postage- is showing its weight, so much so that recently  Mrs RiderWood  made an application to the New South Wales Government Small Business Agency for assistance to circulate this paper in Ivanhoe and Trundle, two very isolated towns. She was informed by the Small Business Agency that assistance available from the Country Industries Assistance Fund was restricted to manufacturing industries, that publishing was regarded as a service industry, that the Agency regretted therefore that financial assistance was not available through it for the Ivanhoe and Trundle newspapers. 
It seems to me that it is very unfortunate that something cannot be done for communications in isolated areas. It could be said that this Government has a poor record when it comes to inland communications. A lot of promises seem to be made at election time, but once the Government has won the people's problems are dismissed out of hand. I ask that the responsible Minister re-examine these matters, have a close look at the problems and show some genuine concern for the problems of the people in isolated areas. If it did that it would find that these people are good Australians who have done much not only to develop Australia but also to help themselves. They are capable of helping themselves on this occasion if they get the right assistance. I believe that it would not cost the Government as much as it makes out. I ask the Government now to see whether it can get someone out in these isolated areas to look at the communication problems and talk to these people. 
-Is the original motion seconded? 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The document read as follows- 


<graphic href="105131197704282_12_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="105131197704282_13_0.jpg"></graphic>

I have made detailed inquiries into Compur Pty Ltd and its 4 associated companies- Pax and Co. Pty Ltd, Howey and Co. Pty Ltd, Brydale and Co. Pty Ltd and Aston and Co. Pty Ltd. From information I have obtained, I believe that group of companies is taking advantage of migrants who desperately want to purchase a home and do not fully understand the dangers associated with terms contracts. They do not understand that they could lose everything, money and house, if they do not settle within 3 years. This group of companies specialises in purchasing homes in the western suburbs, redecorates them, and then sells on terms contracts, mainly to migrants. Why? Is it because migrants are reliable people? Is it because the companies wish to help migrants, or is it because they feel that migrants are easy prey? I am sorry that I cannot answer the questions except to say that I am of the very strong opinion that their profits on such transactions must be very high indeed. I doubt that Compur Pty Ltd would have paid much more than $18,000 or $19,000 for  Mrs Philippidou  's house when it purchased it in December 1973. Allowing for the renovations carried out, I doubt if it would have cost the company much more than $20,000 or $2 1,000. Notwithstanding that Compur purchased the home by way of mortgage and thus had to pay interest on the money it borrowed, honourable members will readily see that the company was able to have its cake and eat it too. 
I have spoken to a large number of real estate agents about selling homes on terms contracts. 
Frankly, not too many agents will have anything to do with them because in their opinion, and I concur, terms contracts are totally one-sided, namely, on the vendor's side. I wrote to the New South Wales Attorney-General,  Mr Frank  Walker, on 1 June 1976 about  Mrs Philippidou  's case. In his reply to me on 8 June he said that he would have immediate inquiries made and advise me further at a later date. I am still waiting. Either  Mr Walker  and the New South Wales Government do not care about the rip-off that is occurring under terms contract sales or they are lax in their investigation of the matter. I urge the State Attorneys-General to take a very close look at terms contract sales with a view to outlawing them altogether or making changes that will give much greater protection to the purchaser and stop any unscrupulous vendor bleeding the sometimes unsuspecting purchasers, who in the main appear to be migrants who reside in my electorate and, in the electorates of Grayndler, Phillip and Sydney. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-In speaking to these 2 Appropriation Bills I want to make some comment on some of the remarks that were made by the honourable member for Oxley (  Mr Hayden).  I also want to make one comment in regard to the economic situation and the Labor Party's term of office. I say quite frankly that I never accused the Labor Party, when it was in government, of being responsible for the economic difficulties that were then facing this country. I, along with many others in my Party, appreciated that a lot of the difficulties and a lot of the problems were contributed to by factors outside this country- factors over which no government in Canberra could have control, irrespective of its political colour. What I and my colleagues said was that the difficultiesand the problems that were associated with this country in the economic sphere were aggravated by the inefficiency, mismanagement and misconception of the Labor Party. I think that that can be borne out by the remarks that have been passed in relation to the honourable member for Oxley at the time when he became the Treasurer of this country. Much of what the honourable member for Oxley said bore out a great deal of the criticism that was being offered by members of the Liberal and National Country Parties, then in Opposition. 
We do not criticise Government spending. We have criticised the Labor Government for spending, when it should have been left to private enterprise. The Labor Government did many things that could have been done better by private enterprise. I do not think that we have criticised the Public Service in general. The members of my Party have a full appreciation of the contribution that is made to the government of this country by and through the Public Service. There are many devout public servants and many of our Ministers would acknowledge the assistance given and the work done by those gentleman. I have said, and I repeat, that there are occasions when a public servant makes a decision within the framework of his particular training and his office and the Minister has to decide sometimes in a political realm to make a different decision even after hearing the advice along a certain line which has been given by the public servant. That is sometimes where criticism comes in. 
I make a brief comment in regard to the Meat and Livestock Corporation which will replace the Australian Meat Board. This was announced by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  the other day. Representations have been made to me that there should be greater representation from rural interests. I ask the Minister for Primary Industry to look at this question to see what can be done. I have a full appreciation that, if a certain number of members are to be appointed to a board or a corporation, the Minister has the responsibility of what one might call allotting the positions to certain industries, certain representatives or certain groups of people. I feel that it is almost like a selector trying to pick an Australian test team; someone will always be critical. I hope the Minister will have a look at these representations and see what can be done in some ways to meet some of the requests made by some of the organisations involved. 
At this time I also wish to say something in relation to Telecom Australia. I have been critical of Telecom, and also complimentary at times, when such comment has been deserved. But the situation at present really worries me. I in my electorate- I know many of my colleagues, particularly in country areas in their electorates also- have been receiving from Telecom on a number of occasions replies saying that unfortunately owing to lack of equipment, manpower or machinery Telecom has been unable to connect a telephone in this or that area. In some instances the requests have been for business telephones. Of course in many business houses a telephone is vital and of course a telephone is vital also to people living in country areas. So, I shall continue to press this matter. I ask the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  to look into this matter because I am afraid that we are really losing ground. You may recall,  Mr Deputy Speaker-  I am sure the honourable member for Paterson ( MrO'Keefe ) will recall- on a previous occasion I said that it is all right to talk about the tremendous advance that has been made in telecommunications by Telecom but that is not much satisfaction, as I said at that time and as I repeat, to the person who does not have a telephone. My colleague the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  -I am sorry, the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter),  this afternoon asked a question on this matter. Perhaps I said 'the honourable member for Maranoa' because the honourable member for Maranoa, along with all my other colleagues, has constantly been asking questions of the Minister in this regard because this matter is vital to the people whom we represent. I ask the Minister to give really careful consideration to the situation relating to Telecom and the installation of telephones. Of course with that subject go the questions of switchboards, and all the other associated matters. 
MrO'Keefe-Channel5. 
There are trunk lines and other factors associated with the matter. My colleague the honourable member for Paterson mentioned channel 5. I mention again, as have other honourable members from the Newcastle area, channel 5 having been transferred to channel 5a. I say frankly that I am not satisfied with the answer that the Minister has given. If I may say so, it is a completely departmental answer. On the technical side, technicians could not have looked into the question because the answers that we have been getting have said that there is really nothing much wrong. 
-Yes, as my colleague the honourable member for Paterson said we have been advised to fiddle with the fine tuning to improve the problem. One gentleman in my electorate said that he would like to fiddle with something else and it would not be the fine tuning. As I said. I am not satisfied with the answer that the Minister or the technical people have given. I hope the Minister will examine the matter further. 
I wish to make a brief comment in regard to foreign affairs. We debated a motion on this topic this afternoon. Of course I do not intend to make any comment on that debate. ButI do make one comment. I think it is most interesting that, when the Indonesians wanted what they called West Irian and the pressure was put on the Dutch to give way, there was no criticism, no outcry, from these delightful left wing people who are now making such a noise. When much the same situation developed with Timor and when Fretilin was receiving support, as I said in this House before, we did not get any criticism from the left wingers. But now that Fretilin is not winning the battle we find that all the left wingers in the world are jumping again and making an awful noise. It is a complicated position. One needs to go to Indonesia to look at it to realise and appreciate the circumstances confronting the Indonesians. I think in this case it would be well for us to have some consideration and thought for what happened in regard to West Irian in relation to what is happening now in Timor. 
I said something about Telecom. I should like to make a comment as far as Canberra is concerned. Canberra is isolated in more ways than one. Perhaps one of the criticisms that I have sometimes of our ministry is that it becomes isolated and insulated living in this area. Naturally this comment would apply also to any association. An association sometimes lose an appreciation of what is happening in the rest of Australia. I think the Minister for Post and Telecommunications should have a serious look at communications- radio, television, telephone and all those facilities that are involved. 
The main matter I wish to talk about this evening is the suggested new political party. I have been a member of this Parliament for more than 25 years. I must confess that there is an expression that I should like to use in this regard. Perhaps I cannot use it- not that it is unparliamentary, but perhaps it would not be advisable to use it. I get a little disgusted with the media sometimes when it headlines a story of a man resigning or retiring from his party, who then sticks out his chest and acts as an independent. I make one point at the start: The honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  has his own conscience and his own thoughts. Therefore whatever decision he makes I shall not criticise him personally for it, although I would perhaps think a little more of him if he took the full step, resigned as a member of the House, went back to the people in his electorate and said: 'I want to represent you as an independent. You make the decision'. Frankly I think it would have been better had he done that. 
There, has been talk about a centre party, a new party being formed. The people involved with it say that this country cannot progress in a democratic fashion with the present Liberal Party, National Country Party and Labor Party in the Parliament. I have never heard so much tripe in all my life. Have a look at some of the men who are endorsing this party. In most cases they are academics who are out of touch with reality and they are men who have axes to grind about this Government or this Parliament. For that reason, I say to the people of Australia: Do not be misled. If we get a proliferation of small parties in this country, this Parliament and this country will face exactly the same position as France and some of those banana republics that have 40 or 50 parties in their Parliament face. 
Many members of my Party have disagreed with the Government, as I have, on a number of occasions. I have written letters to the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  and to other Ministers about the policies they are following. The question that I ask and that every member of this House must ask is: What advantage is it to grandstand, make a great show and go out and say that you are standing out on your own because this or that cannot be accepted by you? If a great moral issue were involved that might be different. What happened on one occasion when the Labor Government had an economic decision of the Cabinet overturned by back benchers? It created a tremendous amount of difficulty. I say that the place for any member of the Government to put forward his opposition to the Government is the Party room, and the place for members of the Labor Party to put forward their opposition is Caucus. What would happen in this Parliament if every Labor Party member, every Liberal Party member or every National Country Party member crossed the floor of the House when something with which they did not agree happened? The thing would become farcical, and government would become unmanageable. 
I ask those in the Press and the media, who headline this type of thing when it does happen, not to play up the situation. Let us face it, when those senators crossed the floor in regard to that economic decision affecting pensioners, it was an emotional issue, but the realities of the situation were not accepted or faced up to by those members of the Seante who crossed the floor. We could not govern and this country could not be managed if people, because of every little issue with which they did not agree, wanted to cross the floor of the House or run home crying saying: Give me back my marbles, you cannot play with them ' or 'Give mc back me bat, you cannot play with it'. Some of the major people talking about this centre party are in that category. If they were put in a position of authority or power, they would be of no value to this country in any way. I completely disagree with the pledge made by members of the Labor Party in their political philosophy. I agree that it would be ridiculous for members of the Labor Party to be crossing the floor of the House constantly or wanting to change the situation on the floor of the House every time something happened with which they did not agree. 
If people want to talk or think about this centre party, let them have a look at France and the chaos and the disorder there for many years. What happened there? It was only when De Gaulle came onto the political scene in France, with his strength, with his authority and with his dynamic thought for the future of France, that there was stability in France's political life. At that time there was a danger that the political factions in France would undermine France as a power in Europe. What happened in Italy? What happens in any country where this situation develops? If the people of Australia disagree with the present policies of this Government or with the factors relating to the Labor Party, they should get into the Party they want and change that party from within, whether it is the Labor Party, or my Party, the National Country Party, or the Liberal Party. They should not try to form another ratbag party. That is all it would be, because it would be controlled by dissidents, by people who had gone into it only because they had some criticism or some axe to grind with the present Government or perhaps even with the Labor Party. There are too many problems facing this country, both in the national and international field, for us to have this situation developing here and for us to have undermined in any way the real strength and the real foundation of our political life. If I wanted to- I suppose this would also apply to any one of us if we wanted to- I could take a group up into my electorate and get a few people at a meeting who would stand up and blast the Government, the Treasurer and the Prime Minister and say that their member was not doing his job in bashing the Prime Minister and the Leader of his Party. 
As the honourable member for Port Adelaide said, this would also happen in his electorate. Any of us could find such people, put them together, find somebody in that group who has a certain amount of money to pay the fares and the cost of a few of them and one could influence a few people. You will not get anything that has any value for this country, that will in any way contribute to the strength of democracy in Australia, that will in any way contribute to the progress and development of this country or that we, who serve in this place-here I give credit to the Opposition as well- want to see. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

-Is the motion seconded? 
-Is it the wish of the House to follow that course? As there is no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection leave is granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="105131197705052_30_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="105131197705052_31_1.jpg"></graphic>

Australia again has the option of paying its contribution either in cash or by lodging nonnegotiable, non-interest bearing promissory notes encashable on demand as and when funds are actually required by the International 
Development Association for loan disbursements. In accordance with past practice and in line with the practices of most other members of the IDA, we propose to lodge promissory notes. This will spread the impact on the Budget over a number of years. Small encashments are expected to be made in 1977-78 with the bulk of the encashments taking place in each of the following four to five years. 
During the discussions on the level of the fifth replenishment it was agreed that essentially the same voting power arrangements which were made under the fourth replenishment should continue to apply. Accordingly, although contributions to replenishments as opposed to the original subscriptions to the IDA, do not carry voting rights, a small proportion of donors' contributions is counted as a subscription. This is designed to ensure that the relative voting power of each of the developed member countries of IDA can continue broadly to correspond to its relative share of total resources contributed by these countries. Complex calculations undertaken by the staff of IDA indicate that of the total amount which Australia is expected to make available under the fifth replenishment, an amount of only $A2 12,416 should take the form of an additional subscription with voting rights. The balance will represent an additional contribution. This distinction is provided for in clause 4 of the Bill. 
I should also mention that the agreement governing the fifth replenishment will not become effective and the obligation to contribute new resources to IDA will not become binding on any member country unless and until members, whose contributions total not less than $US6 billion or 80 per cent of the total, give IDA formal notification that they will make the contributions authorised for them. Because the contribution for the United States is SUS2.4 billion or more than 30 per cent of the total, this means, in effect, that the fifth replenishment cannot become effective and other countries will not be required to contribute to IDA without formal notification from the United States to the IDA that it has taken all the necessary legislative steps to enable it to participate on the basis of the agreement reached for the fifth replenishment. 
It had been hoped that the fifth replenishment would become effective by 1 July 1977 when funds provided under the fourth replenishment will have been fully committed. It seems clear that the United States will not be able to give the formal notification required by that date. In order to enable the IDA to continue its lending operations in the interim other donors have been asked, and have generally agreed, to make voluntary advance contributions on a collective basis totalling not less than $ US 1.2 billion to IDA, in anticipation of the conditions of effectiveness for the agreement being fulfilled and to cover lending operations for a substantial part of 1977-78. Such voluntary advance contributions would of course be deemed ultimately to constitute payment towards the amounts due under the fifth replenishment. Similar delays have occurred under previous replenishments and Australia has made voluntary contributions in the past. In accordance with past practice the Bill has been drafted in a way which will enable Australia to join most other donors in making an advance contribution to IDA. 
As honourable members will know, Australia has always been a strong supporter of the IDA and has been a member since its inception. IDA like the World Bank is an efficient institution which is capable of undertaking large scale projects in a technically proficient way. Although its credits are interest free, the projects which it finances are subject to the same rigorous standards of appraisal that the World Bank applies to its own lending operations. Indeed, the 2 institutions have a common staff and are served by the same Executive Board. IDA has been of particular benefit to countries in the Asian region. Since the inception of IDA about two-thirds of all IDA credits have gone to countries in Asia, particularly the Indian sub-continent, and Asian countries will continue to receive the greater share of IDA funds. IDA has also lent relatively large amounts to Papua New Guinea and that country is expected to receive further credits in future. 
Considerable importance has been attached in the various major international fora to an early and substantial replenishment of IDA resources. Continued Australian support for the IDA is therefore clearly in Australia's national interest. This Bill provides an opportunity for honourable members once again to demonstrate their bipartisan support for the IDA as an efficient and effective development finance institution and our willingness to provide the poorest developing countries with highly concessional assistance through this organisation. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
Clause 3. 
1 ) In this Act, unless the contrary intention appears- 
Court' means the Federal Court of Australia; decision to which this Act applies' means a decision of an administrative character made, proposed to be made, or required to be made, as the case may be (whether in the exercise of a discretion or not) under an enactment, other than a decision by the Governor-General or a decision that is included in a class of decisions that are declared by the regulations to be decisions to which this Act does not apply; duty' includes a duty imposed on a person in his capacity as a servant of the Crown; enactment' means- 
an Act; 
an Ordinance of a Territory; or 
an instrument (including rules, regulations or by-laws) made under an Act or under such an Ordinance, and includes a pan of an enactment; 
Clause 9. 
1 ) Notwithstanding section 39 of the Judiciary Act 1903, a court of a State does not have jurisdiction to review- 
a decision to which this Act applies; 
conduct that has been, is being, or is proposed to be, engaged in for the purpose of making a decision to which this Act applies; 
a failure to make a decision to which this Act applies; or 
any other decision given, or any order made, by an officer of the Commonwealth or any other conduct that has been, is being, or is proposed to be, engaged in by an officer of the Commonwealth, including a decision, order or conduct given, made or engaged in, as the case may be, in the exercise of judicial power. 
Clause 1 1. 
1 ) An application to the Court for an order of review- 
shall be made in such manner as is prescribed by Rules of Court; 
b) shall set out the grounds of the application; and 
shall be lodged with a Registry of the Court and, in the case of an application in relation to a decision (other than a decision by way of a report or recommendation) that has been made, including a decision that a person purported to make after the expiration of the period within which it was required to be made, shall be so lodged within the prescribed period or within such further time as the Court (whether before or after the expiration of the prescribed period) allows. 
The prescribed period for the purposes of paragraph (1) (c) is the period commencing on the day on which the decision is made and ending on the twenty-eighth day after- 
if the decision sets out the findings on material questions of fact, refers to the evidence or other material on which those findings were based and gives the reasons for the decision- the day on which a document setting out the terms of the decision is furnished to the applicant; or 
in a case to which paragraph (a) does not apply- 
if a statement in writing setting out those findings, referring to that evidence or other material and giving those reasons is furnished to the applicant otherwise than in pursuance of a request under sub-section 13 (1) not later than the twenty-eighth day after the day on which a document setting out the terms of the decision is furnished to the applicant- the day on which the statement is so furnished; 
if the applicant, in accordance with sub-section 13(1), requests the person who made the decision to furnish a statement as mentioned in that sub-section- the day on which the statement is furnished, the Court makes an order under subsection 13 (4) declaring that the applicant was not entitled to make the request or the applicant is notified in accordance with sub-section 14(3) that the statement will not be furnished; or 
in any other case-the day on which a document setting out the terms of the decision is furnished to the applicant. 
Clause 13. 
1 ) Where a person makes a decision to which this Act applies (other than a decision in relation to which section 28 of the  Administrative Appeals Tribunal Act  1975 applies or which includes, or is accompanied by a statement setting out, findings of facts, a reference to the evidence or other material on which those findings were based and the reasons for the decision), any person who is entitled to make an application to the Court under section 5 in relation to the decision may, by notice in writing given to the person who made the decision within the prescribed period, request him to furnish a statement in writing setting out the findings on material questions of fact, referring to the evidence or other material on which those findings were based and giving the reasons for the decision. 
Where such a request is made, the person who made the decision shall, subject to sub-section (3), within 14 days after receiving the request, prepare the statement and furnish it to the person who made the request. 
Where an application is made for an order under subsection (3), the person who made the decision is not required to furnish the statement before the Court gives its decision on that application and- 
if the Court makes an order declaring that the person who made the request was not entitled to make it- the person who made the decision is not required to furnish the statement; or 
if the Court refuses the application- the person who made the decision shall prepare the statement, and furnish it to the person who made the request, within 1 4 days after the decision of the Court. 
For the purposes of sub-section (1), the prescribed period is the period commencing on the day on which the decision is made and ending on the twenty-eighth day after the day on which a document setting out the terms of the decision is furnished to the person making the request. 
Clause 19. 
1 ) Subject to sub-section (2), the regulations may declare that this Act does not apply to decisions included in a class of decisions specified in the regulations. 
-Before I call the Minister for Transport, I want to say one thing. I have been extremely disappointed at the standard of behaviour in the Parliament. I point out to honourable members that there is such a thing as good manners. It might be said that what I am about to do is like a parson preaching in a church to his congregation- I am preaching to the converted. But knowing what happens in this place, I expect that my remarks will be spread to other honourable members. I ask that honourable members give consideration to this. Members are entering the chamber and crossing in front of the member who is speaking and the  Chairman.  I hope they would not do this in their own homes. The level of conversation is such that sometimes honourable members who are speaking, particularly members whose voices are not very strong, cannot be heard. I regret having to say this. But I hope the Committee at the moment and the House itself when we finish dealing with the Bill in the Committee stage will take some note of my remarks that we might have an improvement in manners in the Parliament. I call the Minister for Transport. 
-The honourable member will resume his seat. There is no point of order. The business of the House is in the hands of the Government. The suspension of Standing Orders was agreed to by the required majority vote. The points made by the honourable member relate to the debate in this House. They can be made at a later stage. 
I am not suggesting a motive but there could have been a motive in the stories around the country at the time about Iraqi breakfasts and involvements of senior members of the Labor Party. As I go into the facts which arise out of the report by the police I think this will become clear. First of all, let us consider this charge that there  has been a break-in. That was not how the matter was put to the police at the time by the Secretary of the Labor Party,  Mr Combe.  Today he and the  President  of the Labor Party are suggesting a break-in by ASIO. There was not even a suggestion of a break-in at the time the events were alleged to have occurred. I draw attention to the report of Richard Thomas Ninness. 
I have to report that on Wednesday, 14 January, 1976, Acting Assistant Commissioner Kennedy, received a telephone call from  Mr David  Combe who is National Secretary of the Australian Labor Party. He stated that during the Christmas break two inner doors leading to the Conference Room, Third Floor, John Curtin Building, which are normally locked were found unlocked by one of his staff. 
There is no question of a break-in; doors are simply found unlocked, in the then words of the National Secretary of the Labor Party,  Mr David  Combe. The report goes on: 
On further investigation by the staff member it was found that a steel cabinet, which was situated in the Conference Room, was lying on its side and a quantity of personal papers belonging to the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Whitlam,  were found to be missing, possibly stolen. 
It is interesting to note that many conflicting explanations are given by  Mr Combe  and members of the Labor Party's staff as to why documents might or might not have been removed. We start with this explanation in the interview by Detective Ninness: 
.  Mrs Marks  discovered that the door leading to the section of the building which is occupied by the office of  Mr Combe  and other members of his staff . . . was found to be closed and unlocked. It was also discovered that a filing cabinet in the Conference Room was found lying on its side and the bottom drawer had been pulled out and the contents of this drawer had been removed.  Mr Combe  stated that  Mrs Marks  reported this incident to him on the S January 1 976. 
That was about 2 weeks before the matter was reported to police. The report continues: 
She stated that the reason for the delay in reporting the matter to him was that she assumed that the subject filing cabinet had been laid on its side and the papers removed from it by a member of the Labor Party 's staff. 
So,  Mr Combe's  colleague,  Mrs Marks,  assumes not that ASIO had taken the papers but that a Labor Party staffer had taken them. That is one explanation in the police report as to who took the papers, who raided the Labor Party headquarters. The first explanation is that a Labor Party staff member raided Labor Party headquarters. Another suggestion in the report is: 

 Mr Combe informed me that the subject filing cabinet was used by Lorraine Dwyer, personal secretary of the former Prime Minister  Mr Whitlam  and had been removed from Parliament House and stored in the Conference Room in John Curtin House on 1 1 December 197S, whilst waiting for office space at Parliament House. It has been stored in the Conference Room with approximately six other filing cabinets of similar design and a large quantity of cardboard boxes - 
There was a large quantity of cardboard boxes. What was the number? Was it sixty? 

 Mr Combe did: 
. that these papers were of a highly confidential nature pertaining to  Mr Whitlam  's political career. 
I repeat those words. They were of a highly confidential nature pertaining to  Mr Whitlam  's political career'. One is led to ask: Did these papers relate to Iraqi breakfasts, loans or other such matters? It having been suggested by  Mr Combe  in this interview that these papers were of a highly confidential nature pertaining to  Mr Whitlam  's political career, we read on and find, later in the interview, as reported by the detective that  Mr Combe  said that the papers were of no significance or no importance. He seems to have changed his mind. The report continues: 
After  Mr Combe  had indicated to me the position where the cabinet was found, we then returned to his office where a further conversation was carried out in relation to the subject matter. When asked if he could be more explicit as to the nature of the papers which were stolen, he then stated that at this stage, he could not answer that because he did not know if, in fact any papers had been stolen or mislaid at all. When asked if it would be possible to ascertain what papers had in fact been taken, he stated that he would be unable to say at this time. He went on to say that if any papers had been stolen from this cabinet, they would be of little value, if any at all, to the person or persons responsible for taking them. Further conversation was had in relation to what papers had been stolen and also their value relating to political matters, but  Mr Combe  could not give any definite answer.  Mr Combe  was asked why the matter was not reported to the police as soon as he became aware of the alleged offence and he stated that he didn't think it important enough to report. He stated further that he reported it after conferring with his colleagues. 
So in one breath  Mr Combe  is saying that the matter is of a highly confidential and important nature. In another breath he is saying that the matters are of small moment and not sufficiently important to have been reported to the police. Further, he said that he had only reported the matter after he had conferred with his colleagues. We find that  Mr Whitlam  's secretary,  Mrs Dwyer,  goes still further at another point in this document. Page 3 of this police report states:  . .  Mrs Dwyer  stated that if it had been correspondence belonging to her, it would have been possibly papers relating to policy matters, or of a light nature and definitely not personal data relating to  Mr Whitlam. 
So  Mr Whitlam  's secretary is now saying in that part of the report that the papers were definitely not personal data relating to  Mr Whitlam.  So we have the situation where the matter was not reported to the police. It appears on the evidence of the police report that this was not even a break-in; but a door was found open. We have, on the evidence of the document, Australian Labor Party staff members, including the most senior members of the organisation, giving entirely different explanations as to both the importance of the papers and whether or not they related to  Mr Whitlam.  It is quite clear that the situation was not reported for some time. On the evidence there was no report until after the offending cabinet had been repaired. At point after point we find that the statements which have been made in the Press today are entirely without foundation. 
Another vital point relates to the suggestion about the role of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. It is a most serious charge to suggest that ASIO has been acting in the interests of a political party or at the direction of any political force in this country. It is not without interest and relevance to this subject matter to note that today the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  supported the new security arrangements which were announced by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in his major statement on this matter today. It is utterly inconceivable that either  Mr Mahoney  who, at the relevant time, was head of the security intelligence organisation or  Mr Justice  Woodward, would do anything improper. I think that all the remarks made today by the Leader of the Opposition would support that proposition. It is quite incredible that these charges have been made by senior Labor Party spokesmen on the very day on which the Leader of the Opposition agreed with these new arrangements. I point out to the House that we have spoken to  Mr Mahoney,  the Director-General in charge of ASIO at the time. I remind honourable members that  Mr Mahoney  was appointed by  Mr Whitlam  and he has said that the organisation knew nothing about it. 
Debate interrupted. 
-Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
In chapter 1 of the report the Committee has stated that, in examining expenditure from the Advance to the Treasurer, it has sought to ascertain whether or not expenditure from the Advance has been confined to urgent and unforeseeable requirements for which provision could not have been made in the original and additional estimates. The Committee has also sought to ascertain whether or not the departments concerned in the inquiry have maintained efficient administration in the expenditure of funds under the items selected for public inquiry. As the report shows, there were cases in relation to the Departments of Industry and Commerce, Prime Minister and Cabinet and Social Security where expenditure from the Advance to the Treasurer was confined to urgent and unforeseeable requirements for which provision could not have been made in the Appropriation Acts. In other cases, however, there was evidence of clerical errors, inefficient estimating procedures, and delays which caused expenditure to be charged to the Advance when provision should properly have been made in the additional estimates. For example, in the transfer of responsibilities for the Australian Capital Territory Police Force from the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs to the Department of the Capital Territory, a number of accounts received and registered in the Department of the Capital Territory were inexplicably overlooked when additional estimates were being prepared. Another example occurred in the Department of Education where it failed to consider the financial and accounting implications of the introduction of a new pay cycle for beneficiaries under the Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme. Attention has been drawn to these and other similar inadequacies where they have been discovered. 
In the report the Committee has emphasised the serious light in which it viewed the action of the Department of Administrative Services in charging expenditure relating to the purchase of Governor Macquarie's sword and dirk to the wrong appropriation. When it drew a cheque for the purchase against an appropriation that had not been approved by the Parliament for that purpose, the Department knowingly contravened a very important principle embodied in section 83 of the Constitution which states: 
No money shall be drawn from the Treasury of the Commonwealth except under appropriation made by law. 
The Committee also believes that when the cheque was drawn, section 34 (3) of the Audit Act 1901 was breached in that the proposed expenditure was not being charged to the correct head of expenditure. The Committee was concerned that departmental witnesses did not seem to be fully aware of the serious nature of the Department's illegal actions. 
The Committee has directed the attention of all departments to the letter of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  of 2 June 1976 to all Ministers on the subject of delays in the payment of accounts and to Treasury Circular 1976/15 of 8 June 1976 which referred to specific paragraphs of the Committee's 151st report which dealt with the same subject. Despite the Treasurer's letter the Committee was concerned that it is still receiving evidence of delays in the payment of accounts by some government departments. 
The Committee was dissatisfied with the quality of the submissions presented by the Departments of Aboriginal Affairs and the AttorneyGeneral and has invited the specific attention of all departments to the notes relating to evidence that accompany requests for submissions, which clearly state that the Committee expects that 'written submissions and explanations should be carefully prepared and thoroughly checked for adequacy and accuracy of detail and absence of ambiguity'. The Committee has also pointed out that Treasury Circular 1976/10 dated 11 May 1 976 also directs the attention of departments to the necessity for evidence tendered to be of the highest quality. I commend the report to honourable members. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
Industry policy, by its nature, must be concerned with the long term allocation of economicresources and patterns of investment, in terms of both capital equipment and human skills. Unpredictable or excessively rapid changes in these patterns can result in unacceptable economic and social disruption. A clearly stated and widely accepted approach to industry policy is therefore desirable, indeed required, if necessary long term investment in equipment and skills is not to be deterred by unpredictability of Government policies. The changing environment for manufacturing in Australia is in part an aspect of a world-wide process of change. Thus for a variety of economic, social and international reasons the structure of Australian manufacturing industry, derived from the national needs of the past, is changing in response to new circumstances. Whilst recently, in some cases, this response may have been faster and more extensive than desirable, the process of change is bound to continue over the longer term and it is in the national interest that it do so. 
A major part of the White Paper is devoted to ways of generating a wider and fuller understanding in the community of the significance of the changing environment for Australian manufacturing industry and to means of establishing through consultation a general acceptance of how to respond to these changes. The White Paper sets out the Government's approach to industry policy both to ensure steady progress towards a stronger and more viable manufacturing sector in the longer term and to meet short term problems. This does not imply that manufacturing is to be given a preferred position apart from other economic activities. There is a strong and complex interdependence between manufacturing and other sectors of the economy. These relationships must be reflected in the manner in which policies for manufacturing industry are integrated with the nation 's overall economic and social policies, and with policies bearing specifically on other sectors with strong ties with manufacturing. We have taken these considerations fully into account in the preparation of the White Paper. 
Manufacturing industry constitutes an important part of the Australian economy. The manufacturing sector accounts for about a quarter of national production, and about a fifth of Australian exports and employs almost 1 300 000 people. There have, however, been significant changes in the position and outlook of manufacturing industry in recent years. Since the mid-1960s the development of newly identified mineral resources and growth in international demand for these resources have brought a changed balance of payments outlook. Inflationary pressures, lower birth rates, reduced immigration, changing patterns of consumption expenditure as incomes rise and the industrial development of other countries in our region, have all contributed to a major change in outlook for manufacturing industry in Australia. The importance of these factors has been heightened by rapid wage increases in recent years and, in the absence of clearly stated and widely accepted policies, uncertainty as to the substantive direction of Government policy has been a disturbing influence on industry's ability to plan ahead. 
In recent years, some manufacturing activities have faced a decline in international competitiveness, with the loss of export markets and increasing competition from imports in the home market. Consequently, businesses have been making decisions which are bringing about changes in the structure of Australian industry. Faced with rising wages and other costs, many enterprises have reduced their work forces, lowered their levels of Australian content and in some cases have set up manufacture overseas. Investment in new manufacturing facilities in some sectors in Australia has been at low levels. Naturally, we must expect that from time to time there will be some degree of conflict between our objectives in the range of areas affected by decisions in regard to manufacturing industry and, in such circumstances, there will be a need to achieve an appropriate overall balance in our policies which will best serve the national interest. 
The Government has already taken several initiatives to assist manufacturing industry. A major investment incentive program, with substantial benefits, has been introduced and will be continued. The effect of inflation on company tax has been partially offset by trading stock valuation adjustments. Distribution requirements for private companies under Division 7 of the Income Tax Assessment Act have been eased. Temporary assistance has been provided for those areas of industry most seriously affected by import competition. The Temporary Assistance Authority legislation is to be amended to allow greater flexibility in dealing with questions of temporary assistance. New reporting requirements have been given to the Industries Assistance Commission and the order and timing of references in the tariff review program was reviewed. The Australian dollar was devalued on 29 November 1976 to assist, amongst other things, in improving the competitiveness of Australian industry. 
Market sharing arrangements between local production and imports will be considered where necessary as a special measure of short term policy to assist in stabilising activity in sensitive industry sectors, pending full reviews of longer term policies. Such arrangements will only be introduced after appropriate public inquiry and where such action is in line with our obligations under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade or other international treaty commitments. Where market sharing arrangements are applied, the Government considers that, where practicable, the companies benefiting from such action should accept appropriate commitments on pricing policy to be followed during the duration of such assistance. 
The Government will continue to place proper emphasis on short term policies so as to alleviate economic and social disruption and minimise the erosion of employment opportunities. Short term policies will be directed at minimising any disruptive effects which might otherwise arise from changes in the structure of industry. The Government is, however, conscious of the problems which short term measures directed towards a particular industry can create elsewhere in the economy and will exercise the closest possible control over such policies, including limitations as to their duration, consistent with the objective of minimising disruption. The Government will pay close attention to the need to reconcile short term and long term policy measures. 
The change in the pattern of industrial activities in Australia which has been occurring is, however, not just a short term phenomenon. It will have effects through and beyond the period of economic recovery. The White Paper therefore addresses the longer term issues of manufacturing industry in Australia. Our policy guidelines, principles and general approach to longer term industry policy are set out in the White Paper. In terms of the future growth of manufacturing industry, Australia's endowment in capital, labour, skills, natural resources and market opportunities would seem to indicate that the best prospects for manufacturing industry development in Australia in the long term lie in activities which are based on Australia 's natural resources; which are innovative in terms of skill or design; which meet specialised local needs; or which have a high degree of natural protection. 
In today's circumstances and in the changing environment now being encountered, Australian manufacturing industry, over a reasonable period of time, needs to adjust towards a greater degree of specialisation. As a longer term objective the community will be best served by a manufacturing industry with a structure which requires minimum levels of government support. But future industry policy needs to take account of the existing structure of Australian industry. The Government's future approach to longer term industry policy therefore will be concerned principally with dealing with long term changes in the structure of Australian manufacturing industry. Timing and the rate of such change will be important, indeed critical, if disruption caused by the process of change is to be minimised. We are prepared to take special measures, of a recognised temporary nature, to support employment if major changes in the industrial structure threaten unacceptable disruption in times of generally slow economic activity. We shall seek to pursue stable policies which will allow future developments in manufacturing to flow into activities which have good long term prospects for growth. 
Policies will be needed to meet the special problems of certain industries, within the Government's overall objective of providing a general climate for economic growth. In recognising the possible need for policies for a small number of sectors, however, the Government is not setting out to establish a list of 'key industries' which would be accorded special treatment of an on-going nature in order to insulate them from pressures of change. Rather the approach envisaged is one of providing support for a sector for a defined period during which real efforts should be made by industry itself to improve its structure and efficiency, thereby helping it to achieve a better and more certain long term outlook. The Government recognises that protection policies can affect the rate of change in industry and cannot be determined in isolation from the ability of the community to absorb change or accommodate the social consequences of any prospective change. A time of lower economic activity, such as the present, is generally not an appropriate time for reducing protection. In such circumstances a cautious approach to tariff reductions is warranted. Temporary assistance measures may be necessary to avoid disruption and contribute to economic recovery. 
The Government will also pursue longer term policies which will encourage efficient manufacturing firms to develop and take advantage of new opportunities for growth. Continuing attention will be given to development and extension policies in fields such as research and development, and the Government will continue to monitor the adequacy of existing programs in the areas of export development, investment incentives, small business policies, management efficiency, productivity improvement and industrial financing. These policies will form part of a broader framework of policies aimed at fostering the growth of the economy as a whole so as to create a climate in which new opportunities will exist for business initiatives and employment. 
The problems likely to be faced by manufacturing industry in the future will be properly dealt with only if they are understood and appreciated within the community. This will require a greater degree of consultation between the Commonwealth and the State governments and with the many centres of influence and decision making within the community, including management, the trade unions and consumers. New consultation arrangements will be set up by way of the establishment of an Australian manufacturing council, extension of industry advisory councils and there will be continued consultations with State governments. A major national conference will be convened at an early date at which governments, industries, trade unions, consumers and others will be invited to take part in presenting and discussing papers on new long term directions for manufacturing industry. To contribute to an increased awareness in the community of the problems of industry, the Department of Industry and Commerce will prepare an annual review of manufacturing industry to report on major developments in industry. The Australian manufacturing council will assist in the preparation of this annual review. 
The challenges ahead represent a task with which we must all be concerned. Government will play its part in meeting these challenges. We look to management and labour to play their part in a genuine partnership. Productivity must be improved through a greater effort on the part of management and labour to improve their overall efficiency and performance. Wage and price restraint must be pursued because unrealistic increases in wages and prices, especially in those areas of manufacturing most subject to competition from imports, will threaten job security. We should not allow short term difficulties to obscure the great long term opportunities ahead of us. If we tackle the present problems with vigour and persistence manufacturing industry will be better placed to help realise these opportunities in the longer term. 
I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  a list of the organisations, companies, individuals and government departments which presented submissions for consideration in the preparation of the White Paper. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The list read as follows- 


<graphic href="105131197705240_47_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="105131197705240_48_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="105131197705240_49_2.jpg"></graphic>

Manufacturing Industry- White Paper- Ministerial Statement, 24 May 1977. 
I commend it to the House. 
Motion (by  Mr Staley)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the papers. 
-Is the motion seconded? 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The tables read as follows- 


<graphic href="105131197705251_40_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="105131197705251_40_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="105131197705251_40_2.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="105131197705251_40_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="105131197705251_41_3.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="105131197705251_41_4.jpg"></graphic>

Debate (on motion by  Mr Hurford)  adjourned. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering both measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The question read as follows- 556 
 Mr E. G. Whitlam: To ask the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations- 
When did the Department of Labour eliminate the requirement that Aboriginals who are full-time residents of church missions and government settlements must be willing to accept work away from those communities in order to qualify for unemployment benefits. 
How many more Aboriginals received unemployment benefits in each State because of the elimination of the requirement. 
Did the acting assistant director of employment services in the Queensland branch of his Department instruct employment office managers in Queensland by a circular dated 27 January 1977 (file no. 62/3 157) that the requirement was to be re-imposed. 
Have other State branches re-imposed the requirement. 
How many fewer Aboriginals now receive unemployment benefits in each State because of the reimposition of the requirement. 
Did he and the Ministers for Aboriginal Affairs and Social Security have discussions before 28 May 1976 on the problems of Aboriginal employment, including the impact of unemployment benefits payments on Aboriginal communities. 
Were officers of his Department and the Departments of Aboriginal Affairs, Social Security and Education appointed on 28 May 1976 to a working party to make a full study of these matters. 
Did the working party complete its report on 3 1 July 1976. 
On what dates, with which Ministers and with what results did he discuss the report. 
On what date did his Department prepare its submission to the Government  (Hansard,  18 November 1976, page 2844, 7 December 1976, page 3370, 16 March 1977, page 248 and 23 March 1977, page 481). 
On what date and at what level was the decision taken to change the policy in the terms of the Queensland circular of 27 January 1977. 
12 ) Which (a) Ministers and ( b) departments were consulted before the decision was made. 
Did the working party make recommendations on the report of the Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs entitled  Aboriginal Unemployment-Special 

 Work Projects (Hansard, 30 October 1975, page 2665). 
14) Which (a) Ministers and (b) departments have considered (i) that report and (ii) Chapter 9  Employment  of the report of the Select Committee on Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders (Senate  Hansard,  26 August 1976, page 355). 
Will he bring up-to-date the monthly unemployment figures for Aboriginals which the Prime Minister tabled on 26 August 1 976  (Hansard,  page 604). 
Unfortunately for the Government and for the Prime Minister the Hay report failed to justify such mischievious allegations. After the Hay report had been leaked in its entirety to the Press, the Government could not withstand the mounting indignation of the Australian community, the Opposition and the Government's own back bench. On 5 October last year the Minister tabled the Hay report, fully 4 months after the Government had received it, and announced that an additional $25m was to be appropriated for expenditure on Aboriginal welfare in this financial year. When compared with the Labor Government's appropriations for the Department of $192m in the previous financial year, this financial year's total allocation of $177m is still a reduction in funding of 18 per cent in real terms. The Hay report showed no instances of waste and extravagance in this area. Even this meagre allocation of funds may have yet again been reduced by this callous and secretive Government. 
On 16 December last and on 1 February the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  announced that Government expenditure was to be reduced by a further $300m in the balance of this financial year. The Treasurer refused to reveal what programs and services would be curtailed as a result of these decisions. But it was widely reported that the budget of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs had again been reduced. Stung by the public's outrage at this breach of election promises to Aborigines, the Government resorted to a diversionary tactic. In answering to pre-arranged questions in the House, the Prime Minister twice took the cheap and nasty course of trying to blame the Australian Labor Party Government for an increase in the number of Aborigines unemployed. On 26 August in response to a question from the honourable member for Kingston  (Mr Chapman)  the Prime Minister quite gratuitously offered the following comments: 
One of the greatest harms done by the policies of the pre?vious Administration was to increase Aboriginal unemployment very greatly . . . In November 1972 about 3700 were unemployed; in December 1973 there were 9900 Aborigines unemployed as a direct result of the policies of the Australian Labor Party. 
Again, in reply to the honourable member for Ryan  (Mr Moore)  on 15 September the Prime Minister asserted: 
The Labor Government was the great perpetrator of Aboriginal unemployment. 
These charges were made by a Prime Minister who is now presiding over the highest levels of unemployment since the great Depression and over a Government which abolished seasonally adjusted unemployment statistics and denied unemployment benefits to school leavers. The Prime Minister, after his first answer on 26 August last year, tabled statistics which showed the number of unemployed Aborigines at the end of July last year as 9667. The Minister now states that at the end of February this year there were 12 218 Aborigines unemployed. The Parliamentary Library Statistics Group has prepared a table which shows that at the end of March there were 12 293 Aborigines unemployed. I ask for leave to incorporate in  Hansard  the figures prepared by the Parliamentary Library Statistics Group for the months subsequent to those for which the Prime Minister tabled statistics on 26 August last year. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="105131197705262_17_0.jpg"></graphic>

Compiled at request by the Statistics Group of the Legislative Research Service from information obtained from the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations. 
In 1973 the work test which determines eligibility for unemployment benefits was modified so that Aborigines on missions and reserves did not have to move to stations and towns in order to make themselves available for employment. In addition, the strength of the Aboriginal employment section of the then Department of Labor and Immigration was increased from 65 positions in December 1973 to 122 positions in September 1975. The majority of these new positions were for vocational officers appointed to visit outlying areas and to encourage registration. An increase in the number of Aborigines registered as unemployed- not the number of unemployed Aborigines- was thus inevitable. If the Labor Government was guilty of anything, it was that it defined a problem which the conservative coalition parties were content to ignore. If Labor had not come to power in 1972, it is possible that the number of Aborigines registered as unemployed would still be under 4000 while untold thousands of Aborigines would have continued to be denied assistance in gaining employment and income security. 
Labor was not content simply to blame its predecessors for the problem that it had inherited. Innovative employment programs, including special works projects, specific grants to Aboriginal communities for enterprises, housing and town management, and the Regional Employment Development and National Employment and Training schemes were introduced to assist Aborigines to tackle the unemployment problem. Unfortunately for the thousands of unemployed Aborigines, the Minister's statement will have little effect on the problem of Aboriginal unemployment. It provides little hope that the Government intends to reduce the growing number of Aborigines who have been thrown out of work by this Government 's economic policies. It fails to commit any additional expenditure to finance or support the community development employment projects or an expanded NEAT scheme. Presumably the Minister's proposals will have to limp along within very restricted funding that is now available to the Departments of Aboriginal Affairs and Employment and Industrial Relations and the restrictive ceilings on employment in those departments. 
If the Government had genuinely intended to tackle the problem of Aboriginal unemployment, there was scant need to commission another working party to examine the problem. In the last 2 years there have been no less than 3 major reports presented to the Parliament which have dealt totally or in part with the problem of Aboriginal unemployment and have set out detailed recommendations for government action. The first main report of the Commission of Inquiry into Poverty commissioned detailed research into poverty amongst Aboriginal families in Brisbane, Adelaide and rural New South Wales. These reports recommended major amendments to the procedures governing the payment of unemployment benefits to Aborigines, the extension of the very successful vocational officer service, further development of Aboriginal employment schemes, and the implementation of anti-discrimination legislation. A Standing Committee of this House, the Committee on Aboriginal Affairs, presented its report on Aboriginal employment on 30 October last. This all-party Committee recognised the need for significant government assistance and innovation in this field. Paragraphs 28 and 30 of its report state: 
The Committee recognises that special initiatives are needed to create and restore employment and training opportunities for Aboriginals . . . The need for special initiatives in the field of Aboriginal employment stems from the high level of Aboriginal unemployment, lack of general education, formal and on-the-job training, work experience and discrimination against them. 
The Committee went on to recommend that the special works project scheme be greatly expanded and that the Australian Government should make the necessary funds available. 
In August last year a Senate Select Committee reported on the environmental conditions of Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders and presented detailed comment and recommendations to alleviate the problem of Aboriginal unemployment. Page 213 of the Committee's report states: 
Employment, and lack of employment, are but one component of a cycle which ensures the perpetuation of poverty. If a person is to break out of the poverty situation into which he was born, he must be able to achieve economic security, which implies permanent employment . . . 
The Senate Select Committee also presented S recommendations concerning Aboriginal employment, including a recommendation that the special works program be expanded. The overwhelming conclusion of all these commissions and committees was that immediate action by the Federal Government was necessary if the depressing cycle of Aboriginal poverty and unemployment was to be broken. I do say to the Minister, whose genuineness and endeavours in this field I recognise- we can all discern that he is inhibited by the reluctance of some of his colleagues and by his coalition partners- that he might have been generous enough to acknowledge the recommendations which have been made in this field by the Henderson inquiry, commissioned by the McMahon Government and augmented by mine, and by the committees of the 2 Houses. 
The Minister's statement confirms the impression that the Government is still interested only in maintaining a facade of activity and interest in the problem of Aboriginal employment. The Government has not and will not commit or expend funds that are required to implement the findings of those 3 major inquiries or, one would think, fully to implement the recommendations which have been accepted from the working party's report of 31 July last. Instead of maintaining expenditure on labour intensive housing and enterprise activities, the Government slashed expenditure on those programs in January and August of last year. The allocation of an additional $2 5 m for those programs still does not restore funding to the nominal levels established by the Labor Government, still less to the real levels. Instead of extending the vocational officer service of the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations, the Government applied severe staff and travel restrictions which effectively denied many Aborigines income, support and assistance in obtaining employment. Instead of immediate government action to alleviate this pressing social problem, another unnecessary and inadequate report was commissioned. 
The result of this Government's duplicity and dishonesty is record levels of Aboriginal unemployment, which have risen every month during its term. The Fraser Government is not only presiding over record levels of general unemployment but also is responsible for the rate of Aboriginal unemployment which in official terms is running at 30 per cent of the Aboriginal work force and is unofficially estimated to be running in excess of 50 per cent of the potential work force. This is the cost of the Fraser Government 's misdirected priorities, its passion for slashing federal expenditure, and its deliberate and inhuman policy of creating and then hiding unemployment. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
There was in fact extensive discussion of the timing of the first review at the April Premiers Conference and general agreement that the review should commence shortly. It was recognised that the first review could take some time to complete. Accordingly, the Government would propose to issue an early reference under the new legislation once enacted. Sub-section 13(3) in conjunction with proposed sub-section 13 (6) defines the purpose of the review to be to determine whether any change is desirable in the figures set out in section 4 of the Act, that is the  per capita  relativities. 
Sub-section 13(3) would also provide for the Grants Commission to be the review body and sets out the basic equalisation principle referred to earlier. Proposed sub-section 13 (4) elaborates on that general principle. Proposed subsection 13 (5) requires the Commission to examine the factors set out in section 4, that is the  per capita  relativities, and to inquire into and report whether any events have occurred since those factors were determined which in the opinion of the Commission affect the continued operation of those factors. Proposed sub-section 13(7) provides that the review should be confined to services normally funded through the States' revenue budgets. This is in accordance with long established Grants Commission practice. The proposals embodied in this Bill represent the completion of the stage one machinery of the tax sharing arrangements. It is, therefore, an important and necessary step in the implementation of the Government's federalism policy. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hurford)  adjourned. 
-Before calling the next speaker I point out that the debate is developing into a second reading debate. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering both measures? There being no objection, I shall allow that course be followed. 
-The question is that this Bill be now read a third time. Those of that opinion say aye. 

 Honourable members supporting the Government Aye. 
-The Senate transmits to the House of Representatives the following resolution which was agreed to by the Senate and requests the concurrence of the House of Representatives therein: 
That during the remainder of the present period of sittings the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence and its sub-committees be granted leave to meet during sittings of either House of the Parliament. 
Motion ( by  Mr Killen)  agreed to: 
That the message be taken into consideration forthwith. 
Motion (by  Mr Killen)  agreed to: 
That the House concurs in the resolution transmitted in Message No. 20 of the Senate relating to the granting of leave to the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence and its sub-committees to meet for the remainder of the present period of sittings during sittings of either House of the Parliament. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the 6 measures? There being no objection, I shall allow this course to be followed. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The documents read as follows- 

CHARTER OF THE NATIONAL ABORIGINAL CONFERENCE (NAC) 
INTRODUCTION 
This Charter sets out: 
the structure and functions of the National Aboriginal Conference 
the role and duties of NAC members 
the relationship between the NAC and the Commonwealth. 
STRUCTURE AND FUNCTIONS 
Composition 
The NAC will be composed of 35 members elected for three years in accordance with the provisions of Part D of this charter. The role of the National Aboriginal Conference will be to provide a forum in which Aboriginal views may be expressed at State and National level and, in particular, to express Aboriginal views on the long term goals and objectives which the Government should pursue and the programs it should adopt in Aboriginal Affairs, on the effectiveness of existing programs in Aboriginal affairs and on the need for new programs in Aboriginal affairs. The NAC will also participate, through its entitlement to choose S of the 10 members, in the work of the Council for Aboriginal Development (see Attachment). 
Structure 
The role of the NAC will be carried out 
by the NAC as a whole in an annual meeting; 
by State Branches in biannual meetings; 
by the Executive, meeting biannually; in accordance with the provisions of the following paragraphs. 
The Annual Meeting of the NAC 
The Annual Meeting of the NAC will be held in a place determined by the NAC. The first annual meeting will be held in Canberra within 12 months after the first elections. The  Chairman  of the Executive, or in his absence the  deputy Chairman  of the Executive, will preside over the annual meeting. Rules of procedure for the meeting will be prepared by the Executive and submitted to the first annual meeting for approval. 
The annual meeting will review the work of the Executive during the previous twelve months. It may recommend a reconsideration or rescission of previous decisions of the Executive. The Executive will be guided but not bound by these recommendations. 
The annual meeting will receive and consider reports and recommendations from State Branches (through the Executive) and from the Executive. It may make recommendations to State Branches and the Executive. 
The annual meeting may set up committees to consider, during the annual meeting, such matters as may be referred. It may request reports from the Executive or State Branches. It may, through the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, request information from the Commonwealth Government. 
State Branches of the NAC 
Members of the NAC elected in a State or Territory will constitute a State Branch of the NAC except that Victorian and Tasmanian members will together constitute one Branch. Membership of State Branches will be: 
Western Australia, 7; Queensland, 9; Northern Territory, 7; New South Wales, 7; South Australia, 3; Victoria/Tasmania, 2. 
State Branches will meet at least twice each year, in a place of their own choosing within their State or Territory. They will elect their  Chairman  and Vice  Chairman  annually. In their absence an acting  Chairman  shall be elected by majority vote of those present. The  Chairman  will be responsible for preparing and circulating the agenda for meetings. 
The functions of State Branches will be: to elect delegates to the Executive to propose matters for discussion and action at the national level to form and maintain working relationships with other Aboriginal organisations, with regional offices of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs and, through those offices with other Commonwealth and State Government departments in order to deal with matters related to Commonwealth programs arising at State level to consider reports from delegates to the National Executive to advise the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs on matters referred by him to the State Branch. 
The Executive- Members of the Executive will be chosen by State Branches from among their members as follows: 
Western Australia-2 members (1 of whom shall represent a tribal region) 
Northern Territory-2 members 
South Australia- I member 
Queensland-2 members ( 1 of whom shall represent the Torres Strait area) 
New South Wales- 2 members 
Victoria/Tasmania- 1 member. 
Members of a State Branch may also elect one of their members to act as a substitute in any instance where a delegate is unable to attend an Executive meeting or otherwise undertake his duties as an Executive member. Members of the Executive will hold office for three years. The Executive will elect its  Chairman  and  Deputy Chairman  annually. In their absence an acting  Chairman  shall be elected by majority vote of those present. 
1. The Executive will choose five of its members to be the NAC delegates to the Council for Aboriginal Development. At least two of the delegates will be representatives of tribal regions or of the Torres Strait area. 
2. The functions of the Executive will be: on the basis of recommendations of NAC meetings and meetings of State Branches, to brief delegates to the Council for Aboriginal Development to prepare for annual meetings of the NAC on the basis of recommendations of the Annual meetings and meetings of State Branches, to put the view and needs of the Aboriginal people before the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and before groups and individuals having responsibilities for, or interests in, Aboriginal affairs to direct the activities of the NAC secretariat, including its financial management and employment of secretariat staff to prepare and distribute an NAC newsletter. 
The Executive is obliged to consider recommendations from the NAC annual meeting and meetings of State Branches, but such recommendations are not binding on the Executive. 
MEMBERSHIP 
Membership of the NAC will be open to any Aboriginal over the age of 18 years who has been a permanent resident of the area in which he stands for election for a period of more than six months. The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs will be the sole authority on the number of members and the boundaries of the areas which members shall represent. 
A member may cease to be a member of the National Aboriginal Conference before the expiration of the three year period of office by resignation or by declaration of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs after consultation with the National Executive of the National Aboriginal Conference that the member is no longer fit to hold office on the grounds of conviction for a criminal offence, gross neglect of duties or of ill health. 
Casual vacancies arising from action taken under paragraph 15 or from death of a member, will be filled by election or other means approved by the Minister after consultation with the relevant State Branch. 
Since members of the NAC are regarded as accountable to Aboriginals, Aboriginal organisations and Aboriginal communities in their areas, it will be their duty to consult with and represent the views of Aboriginal organisations and communities in their areas at meetings of State Branches and of the NAC. 
Members will be available to advise organisations and communities in formulating requests for assistance and will take part in consultations on aid programs at Community, Area and Regional level. 
Members will continue to reside in their areas while they hold office as NAC members. They will receive remuneration at the rate determined by the Remuneration Tribunal on the basis of their full-time service as NAC members. 
ELECTIONS 
Elections for NAC members shall be conducted by the Australian Electoral Office in conjunction with the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. Rules for the conduct of these elections, and any amendments to these rules, will be subject to the approval of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, in consultation with the Minister for Administrative Services. 
The definition of NAC areas for the purposes of conducting an election will be as approved by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and any amendments to area boundaries will also require the approval of the Minister. 
ADMINISTRATIVE AND FINANCIAL PROVISIONS 
Subject to budgetary requirements and within the context of overall Government policy, the Commonwealth Government will provide finance for the operation of the National Aboriginal Conference, including funds for the remuneration of NAC members as approved by the Remuneration Tribunal fares of members attending approved meetings the salaries and other entitlements of NAC members' secretarial assistants as approved by the Public Service Board accommodation and assistance for the conduct of approved NAC meetings where these requirements cannot be met by the NAC secretariat the preparation and distribution of an NAC newsletter. 
The administration of these monies, within the budget approved by the Minister, will be the responsibility of the National Executive of the National Aboriginal Conference, subject to the incorporation of the National Executive in a form acceptable to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and to arrangements for the accounting and audit of all funds provided by the Commonwealth in a manner acceptable to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. 
In addition to providing funds for the purposes described above, the Government will provide office accommodation, furniture and equipment and telephone facilities for each N.A.C. member, for the N.A.C. secretariat and for the annual N.A.C. meeting and meetings of the Executive and State Branches of a standard approved by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. 
RELATIONS WITH THE COMMONWEALTH GOVERNMENT 
In addition to the matters provided for in this charter the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs may refer any other matter to the N.A.C. Annual meeting, to the Executive or State Branches and such matters shall be discussed by the body referred to and a response provided. 
Resolutions or requests affecting the responsibilities of Ministers other than the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, will be referred by the latter to those Ministers, and the replies will be conveyed through the same channel. 
The N.A.C. may seek assistance from the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs to fulfil its functions and particularly for training of members and for the provision of factual information to assist it in providing advice to the Minister. 
Amendments 
This charter may be amended at any time by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs after consultation with the National Aboriginal Conference. 
Explanatory Note- Council for Aboriginal Development 
The Council for Aboriginal Development will be the formal advisory body to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, and, through him, to other Ministers or Commonwealth authorities responsible for programs and policies having specific impact on the Aboriginal community in Australia. In particular, the Council will be a key body in achieving the Government's objective in ensuring that Aboriginals take a major role, at national level, in advising on the long term goals which the Government should pursue and the programs it should adopt; setting priorities for expenditure; and evaluating existing programs and formulating new ones. 
The Council for Aboriginal Development will consist of ten members of whom five will be N.A.C. members chosen by the National Executive from the members of the 
Executive, and five will be nominees of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs; all members will be of Aboriginal or Torres Strait Islander descent. At least two of the National Executive delegates will represent communities in traditionoriented areas. 
1 . While there is no limit on the range of matters affecting Aboriginal Australians on which the Council may offer advice, it will be required to consult with specialist advisory bodies, such as the National Aboriginal Education Committee, with a view to avoiding duplicating the work of these bodies. 
STATEMENT ON COUNCIL FOR ABORIGINAL DEVELOPMENT 
The Government sees the Council for Aboriginals as the formal Aboriginal advisory body to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and, through him, to other Ministers and Commonwealth authorities responsible for policies and programs bearing directly on Aboriginal Australians. It will be the duty of the Council to advise on: the long term goals and objectives which the Government should pursue and the programs it should adopt; priorities for expenditure on Aboriginal affairs within the context of overall budget allocations; the effectiveness of existing programs, and the need for new programs. 
The Government seeks written advice from the Council. The Council may, through the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, request information on Government policies and programs in the course of formulating their advice. In cases where he feels obliged to reject the Council's advice, the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs will inform the Council in writing, giving his reasons. 
While there is no limit on the range of matters affecting Aboriginal Australians on which the Council may offer advice, it will be required to consult with specialist advisory bodies, such as the National Aboriginal Education Committee, with a view to avoiding duplicating the work of those bodies. 
The Council will have 10 members, 5 of whom will be chosen by the Executive of the National Aboriginal Conference from its own members and 5 will be nominated by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. The term of membership for all members will initially be 3 years except that any N.A.C. delegate who ceases to be a member of the N.A.C. for any reason will also thereby automatically cease to be a member of the Council. The 5 N.A.C. members of the Council will be guided, but not bound, by briefings issued by the N.A.C. Executive. 
The Council will elect a chairman and deputy chairman who will hold office in that capacity for a period of one year but may be re-elected. 
The rules of procedure for Council meetings, other than those specifically referred to in this letter, will be determined by the Council. 
The Council will meet at least four times a year and further meetings may be approved by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. The  chairman  will prepare an agenda which should be circulated to all members before each meeting. The agenda will include items referred to the Council by the N.A.C. Executive and items referred by me as Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Individual members of the Council may propose agenda items. 
The Commonwealth Government will provide the staff, accommodation, furniture and office equipment necessary to operate a secretariat which will provide administrative support and a capacity to undertake research and prepare papers on issues which the Council decides to consider. The Council may also draw upon the resources of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs to assist with preparatory work for Council meetings and may request assistance from such Government bodies as the Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies. 
While they are attending approved meetings or travelling in connection with approved Council business, members of the Council will be entitled to receive sitting fees and travelling allowances at the rates and under the conditions approved by the Remuneration Tribunal from time to time, except that N.A.C. members of the Council, who receive an annual salary, will not also receive sitting fees. 
The Council will be a key body in achieving the Government's objective of ensuring that Aboriginals have a major role in advising on national policies, programs and priorities in Aboriginal affairs. Advice received from the Council will be given full consideration in considering Government actions in Aboriginal affairs and where the Council's advice cannot be accepted I will provide the Council with written reasons for this decision. 
National Aboriginal Conference-NAC 
The NAC will meet annually at the national level and that meeting will draw together and express Aboriginal opinion on the basis of views put forward and considered at local and State levels. The belief that the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee was an 'Aboriginal parliament' contributed to its failure to provide constructive advice to the Government, and to its failure to attract widespread support among the Aboriginal and non-Aboriginal communities. It is not the Government's intention to set up a quasi-parliamentary body outside the constitutional parliamentary system, and the National Aboriginal Conference will be a non-legislative forum in which elected members will be free to debate and express, among other things, an Australiawide Aboriginal view on long term goals which the Government should pursue, programs which it should adopt and priorities for expenditure. 
Although the Committee of Inquiry recommended that the number of members be increased from 41 to 46 to give tribal people increased representation, the Government believes that a membership of 35 will provide a balance between tradition oriented, rural and urban Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander communities. The 35 members will represent geographical areas which generally coincide with my Department's administrative areas. This will enable each member to be closely involved when proposals affecting his area are being developed. It also will help to ensure that representatives are accountable to their communities and that the effectiveness of their work  at grass roots level may be judged by those communities throughout the members' term of office. The normal term of office for members will be 3 years. Members will receive a salary and allowances determined by the Remuneration Tribunal. The charter sets out certain conditions under which members may be removed from office. 
-I call the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development who will close the debate. 

 Wednesday, 1 June 1977 

-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

Declare that upon receipt of the plaintiff's claim for unemployment benefits dated the 20th day of December 1976, the Director-General should have considered all the circumstances of the plaintiff's claim, making such investigations as he determines, and in the light thereof, should have decided whether the plaintiff answered the descriptions contained in paragraph (a) and (b) of s. 107 of the Social Services Act 1 947 and whether she had also satisfied him as to the several matters referred to in paragraph (c) thereof and should by that means have determined whether the plaintiff was qualified to receive an unemployment benefit. 
Declare further that in his consideration of the plaintiff's claim, the Director-General might have regard to the fact that it was made during the period of school holidays and at a time shortly after the plaintiff had left school at the end of the year but should not treat that fact as of itself decisive in determining whether the plaintiff had satisfied him of any one of the several matters referred to in paragraph (c) of s. 107. 
Green was entitled to unemployment benefit throughout the period from 27 December 1976 to 22 February 1977, that unemployment benefit had been wrongfully denied to her and that she was entitled to an order from the Court accordingly. In his judgment,  Mr Justice  Stephen restated the provisions of section 107 of the Social Services Act in relation to which the plaintiff's claim was lodged.  His  Honour pointed out that the section provides that a person's qualification to receive unemployment benefit depends on his satisfying the Director-General in relation to a number of matters, particularly that he is capable of undertaking and is willing to undertake suitable work and has taken reasonable steps to obtain such work. After canvassing the argument that had been put to him regarding the case,  Mr Justice  Stephen said in his judgment: 
For the plaintiff it was urged that I should form my own conclusions as to the plaintiff's compliance with the requirements of section 107: That these should be in the plaintiff's favour, that I should then impute to the DirectorGeneral - 
This is what the plaintiff put to His Honour- my own state of satisfaction under section 107, and should accordingly declare the plaintiff to have been qualified to receive unemployment benefit from 27 December 1976. 

 Mr Justice Stephen went on to say: 
Even were I minded to find the necessary facts inher favour, as to which I say nothing, the course suggested is not, I think, one which is open to me. It is the Director-General or his delegates that the legislation assigns the task of attaining satisfaction and the Court should not seek to usurp that function. 
Honourable members will appreciate that the people representing Karen Green did not secure from the Court the order that they sought. What the Court did was to issue 2 declarations on 22 April 1977, the substance of which was that the Director-General should in his consideration of the claim have considered all the circumstances of the claim, making such investigations as he determined, and in the light of this decided whether the plaintiff satisfied him on all the matters set out in section 107 of the Act. The Court further declared that the Director-General might have regard to the fact that the claim was made during the period of school holidays shortly after the plaintiff had left school but should not treat that fact as of itself decisive in determining the claim. Those declarations, as I have said, were issued by the Court on 22 April. A stay of 2 1 days was allowed in which either party had an opportunity to appeal. The 2 1 days elapsed on 1 3 May without any appeal being lodged. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

INQUIRY INTO UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFIT POLICY AND ADMINISTRATION 
Terms of Reference 
The inquiry should make a fundamental examination of Unemployment Benefit policy and administration. In this process it should examine all aspects of the present Unemployment Benefit system and assess to what extent Government policy and administrative arrangements need to be changed to meet present-day requirements. In particular the inquiry should: 
.  Examine the underlying concept and philosophy of the present system and assess how appropriate these continue to be. 
Against the Government's basic policy of directing assistance to those most in need, examine and recommend on a system of income support for unemployed persons having regard to: 
the level of benefits the community should provide to those unable to find work, including new entrants to the work force; 
the extent to which the applicant's previous income and any other income the person or their family are currently receiving should limit the level of income support during a period of unemployment; 
whether arrangements should be made to adjust benefits and, if so, on what basis; 
the effect of income support measures on the incentive of unemployed persons to actively seek employment; 
what limits, if any, should be set to levels and duration of payments; 
f ) the conditions which should be met by individuals before they they become eligible for income support. 
Examine, in the light of any recommended policy changes, the present administrative arrangements and procedures and assess the extent to which these arrangements may need to be changed or modified to ensure effective administration of both the national employment service and the provision of income support to unemployed persons, having in mind the need to provide for 
service to clients, including prompt payment to those who qualify to receive benefit; 
prevention of abuses and protection of public expenditure; 
the most economic and effective deployment of Government staffing and facilities. 
Take account of the material submitted to, and the conclusions reached by, the Review of the Commonwealth Employment Service on the question of the administration of Unemployment Benefit. 
The inquiry should be expected to complete its task within three months. 
REVIEW OF THE COMMONWEALTH EMPLOYMENT SERVICE 
Terms of Reference 
1 ) The Review should address itself to an examination of the objectives and functions of the CES (including its role vis a vis unemployment benefit) in the light of the significantly changed environment in which it now nas to operate and the current and prospective demands for its services. 
With regard to the objectives as determined by the Review, it should then proceed, as a matter of priority, to investigate the primary function of the Service which is the placement of unemployed persons and others seeking improved employment in suitable jobs and the rinding of suitable people for job vacancies notified by employers, including the finding of labour for special needs and projects. 
3 ) The Re view should include an investigation of the provision of special employment assistance to particular groups who need additional help to find suitable employment, for example, physically, mentally and social handicapped persons, young people without previous job experience, persons emerging from rehabilitation programmes, persons experiencing long periods of unemployment, migrants, Aborginals, ex-prisoners, etc. 
The Review should extend to an examination of the provision of occupational information and counselling as to occupation/vocation and as to how best to facilitate placement in suitable employment. 
Without involving an examination of manpower policies and programmes, the Review should examine the role of the Service as a delivery system for those policies and programmes. 
The role of the CES in the collection of information on the labour market which may be used for economic policy purposes and the development and modification of manpower policies and programmes, as well as to meet operational requirements of the CES, should be investigated by the Review. In this, regard should be had to the limitations inherent in the data provided by the Service as indentified by the Report of the Advisory Committee on Commonwealth Employment Service Statistics. 
The Review should include an examination of the organisational framework in which the functions of the Service might be performed and the location of officers, as well as the nature of the resources required, the training of staff, the accommodation needs, and the equipment and system requirements (including data processing and electronic techniques). 
The Review should take account of the services provided by other agencies including relevant services provided by governments and commercial and private agencies and report on the scope for interchange of information and coordination and, where appropriate, rationalisation. 
The Review should utilise, as far as possible, the experience of overseas countries which have reviewed their national employment service in recent years. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The paper read as follows- 


<graphic href="105131197705310_46_2.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="105131197705310_47_3.jpg"></graphic>

The composition of the Corporation, as is well known to this House, has been altered with a view to introducing a compact, cohesive working corporation with members of the highest possible calibre, particularly selected to cover new fields of expertise necessary in the interests of efficient meat exporting. As well as the  chairman  and the Government representative, 4 members representing Australian livestock producers, one meat export representative and two specially qualified members will be appointed. So far, industry organisations have, I think, been looking on the producers' consultative group as a group charged primarily with the responsibility of producing a panel of names- six in all- from which the Minister will select 4 representatives. However, the importance of this group is far greater than just this single responsibility would imply. The Minister has suggested that this group, and in particular its executive, should maintain a close working relationship with the Corporation itself. This should assure a proper flowback of information to all industry groups and to all grass roots producers in each State of the Commonwealth from which this group will be elected on a franchise which is yet to be determined. I personally hope that there will later be a voluntary arrangement between the producer consultative group and the export and abattoirs consultative group to form a joint executive for even closer contact with the Corporation. Be this as it may, it is necessary that the producer consultative group executive consults regularly with the Corporation and passes back all information necessary through the chain to the producer himself. On the other hand, I see the role of this executive as being the mechanism by which the full consultative group is called together from time to time. 

 Colonel MacArthur, the present  Chairman  of the Australian Meat Board, has performed in his inimitable way, displaying his great personality to a magnificent extent to many of our export customers overseas. Nobody would question his dedication to the job and the hard work he has performed on behalf of the industry. This hard work possibly accounts for his recent ill health. But given the changing circumstances of today, the Meat Board was not constituted to deal with the proper flow back. It is vital that the new Corporation considers fully its powers under the new Act and makes quite certain that grower groups are kept fully informed as to the reasons why decisions are made. 
It is also my belief, supported by a certain amount of evidence, that exporters have in many ways dominated the decision making process of the Meat Board, although producer representatives accounted for six of the ten members of that Board. To overcome this problem, the Government has cut the number of exporter representatives, which is presently two, to one and increased the number of those with special qualifications to two. It is fair to say that nobody was entirely happy with the performance of the Meat Board in the past, although six of the ten members represented primary producer organisations. The Government has therefore decided to appoint 4 representatives, who, together with any duplication of interests from the 2 representatives with special qualifications or from the appointment of the  Chairman  himself, in my view will certainly give adequate producer representation. Logic demands a compact and cohesive board and logic also demands a higher proportion of those with knowledge of overseas markets and trading rather than general industry experience to be represented for the first time on the new Corporation. We have proved conclusively in the past that we can produce beef cattle and all meat extraordinarily well, but we are yet to prove that we have a structure that can market that commodity efficiently. 
As a producer of beef and fat lambs, I believe that we have the best potential structure to cope efficiently with the future problem of meat marketing. I say 'potential', not because I doubt the Minister's wisdom in the appointments he will make, but because there is still the need for producer organisations to put forward on their panels for ministerial consideration, the absolute top calibre of man available to sit as their representatives on the Corporation. If this is done and if the producer consultative groups function as they are expected to, the use of the word 'potential' can certainly be deleted from my previous statement. There is no doubt that, with increasing world demand reflecting an increased price and with reduced inflation and with some industrial peace, there will be an improvement of prices to the producer. I believe that this new Corporation will do more than play its part in achieving the results that all of us desire. 
I should like to thank all of the producer and other organisations which have so frankly expressed their views to the Government Parties' rural committee and for the time and effort they have obviously devoted to forming their submissions, both written and oral. I hope that this enthusiasm and dedication is continued through the consultative groups once the Corporation is operating. I strongly support the Bill. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Darling) (8.27)-Earlier today I felt grateful to the Government Whip for making time available for me to speak on these Bills, as I was under the impression that time was precious. But I must admit that, after listening to the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles),  I am somewhat confused: I cannot see how precious time is because the first part of the honourable member's speech was concerned with machinery amendments to the Australian Labor Party's political machine. 
I believe that the Austraiian meat industry requires a board or a corporation with powers and financial arrangements to oversee and promote Australian meat and livestock exports. For that reason, I am supporting the Bill that reconstitutes the Australian Meat Board as the Australian Meat and Live-stock Corporation. I also support the Live-stock Export Charge Bill, the Live-stock Export Charge Collection Bill, the Live-stock Slaughter Levy Amendment Bill, Live-stock Slaughter Levy Collection Amendment Bill and the Meat Research Amendment Bill. We all know that these Bills are necessary so that the Australian Meat and Live-stock Corporation Bill can operate efficiently. All of these Bills are necessary because during the last few years there has been a decline in meat prices. This has brought about tragic economic circumstances for many, if not most, of the Australian livestock producers. 
The Australian Meat Board, which was established in 1935, has been subjected to considerable pressure and criticism. I agree with the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  who, in his second reading speech, said that much of this was unwarranted because, during the last few years, the circumstances of the industry have largely been beyond the control of the Board and indeed most Australian producers. With the output of the industry greatly expanded and the greatly increased proportion of beef and sheep meat being exported, it was only natural that a review of the Meat Board's functions was justified. All representatives of the industry seem to agree that an immediate change should take place. But from my observation there seems to be some difference of opinion as to what changes should take place, especially in regard to the composition of the Corporation and the selection procedure applying to its members. 
The Minister informed the House in his second reading speech that the bulk of the powers possessed by the Australian Meat Board will be retained by the Corporation but the changes provided for in the Bill have received very little reaction from the industry, the implication being that there is widespread agreement with these changes. I am glad to get this assurance from the Minister because many producers in my electorate have given me the opposite impression. I have received many telegrams complaining bitterly about the changes. However, I have to be honest; I have also received telegrams informing me of support for the changes. A Press report which seems to be causing some concern to the producers stated that the Corporation will have to consult the Public Service Board when appointing its senior officials. The beef producers in my electorate are very concerned about this matter. They think that this will not produce the best type of person for the Corporation. Of course, this could happen. 
Some of the producers complained about the Minister having too much power over the Corporation. However, the growing tendency to move away from the traditional trader to trader operations in my opinion makes it more important that the Minister has more power. I believe that in recent times a lot of our primary products would have been left unsold if it had not been for government to government agencies. I cite the example of the eastern European and Middle Eastern markets. We all know that a lot of government to government negotiations were going on in respect of the Australian beef trade with Japan. This being the case, I believe it is warranted that the Minister have a certain amount of control. Australia's obligation to regulate meat exports to the United States of America in accordance with a voluntary restraint arrangement also would require a certain amount of Government control and certainly inspection. 
In his second reading speech the Minister stated that hopefully these Bills will facilitate a return to reasonable prosperity for many cattlemen who are disadvantaged at present. There is no doubt this could happen and that over the long term we will see a big upturn in the beef industry. This seems to be the general trend in all our industries. They have their slumps and then they pick up again. However, I believe it would be foolish to suppose that just by setting up a new board and changing some provisions of the legislation things will improve overnight. Many producers realise that the situation will not improve overnight. What is worrying a good many of them is that they may not be able to survive much longer. They are looking for additional assistance. 
I am reminded of the buffer price scheme or the deficiency payments that they brought to my attention. In particular the producers mentioned the stabilisation scheme operating in New Zealand. They said that if New Zealand can provide some kind of a buffer price scheme Australia also should be able to provide the same sort of thing. It is well known that we have such schemes for our other primary industries, the dried fruit industry and others. I believe that these Bills should be supported and that we should look for some other way of tiding over our meat industry in this severe economic period. 
-Is leave granted? 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering both measures? I shall allow that course to be followed. 
-The Minister may not be encouraged from the Chair. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
-The statement is not one which needs to be withdrawn. I think the honourable member for Shortland has clarified the point. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering both measures? There being no objection, I shall allow that course to be followed. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

REPORTS TABLED IN THE PARLIAMENT WHERE LESS THAN 20 COPIES WERE MADE AVAILABLE TO SENATE RECORDS AND PAPERS OFFICE JUNE-DECEMBER 1976 
Air Safety Investigation Branch Accident Investigation Report (1 copy). 
Commonwealth Grants Commission: Financial assistance for local government; 3rd report 1976 (10 copies). 
Darwin Cyclone Tracy Relief Trust Fund: monthly reports, February 1976; March 1976; April 1976; May 1976; June 1976 (includes review of activities 1975-76) (10 copies). 
Darwin Disaster Welfare Council: final report (5 copies). 
Distribution of Commonwealth funds to municipal councils; Western Australia 1976-77 (3 copies). 
Election Statistics- Senate Election and General Election of Members of the House of Representatives, 13 December 1975: Australian Capital Territory/Northern Territory, New South Wales, Queensland, South Australia, Tasmania, Victoria, Western Australia ( 10 copies). 
Grants to local authorities: Queensland 1976-77 (3 copies). "Indications of community well-being: a report to the Department of Social Security, (4 copies). 
Interim States Grants Commission: local assistance for local government: South Australia 1976-77, (3 copies). 
Katherine Rural College Planning Committee: report April 1976, (10 copies). 
Literacy and numeracy in Australian schools, (nil copies). 
Local Government Grants Commission: financial assistance for local government: New South Wales 1976-77, (3 copies). 
Post-Graduate scheme: a report on the scheme with particular reference to students commencing in 1965 and 1966 (10 copies). 
Poverty, Commission of Inquiry into. 3rd main report, March 1976 (5 copies). 
The Role of the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee, Committee of Inquiry into. Report, November 1976 (2 copies). 
River Murray Commission; annual report 1975 (5 copies). 
Schedules of special nights for the period 15 July-31 August 1976 ( 10 copies). 
States Grants Committee: distribution of general revenue assistance to municipal councils; Victoria 1 976-77 ( 3 copies ). 
Tasmanian States Grants Commission: 1st report 1976-77 (2 copies). 
War Pensions Entitlement Appeal Tribunals Nos. 1-5 for 1975-76(nil copies). 
Full stocks were supplied at a later date. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I understand representations have been made to the Minister by the honourable member for Riverina about Telecom Australia becoming an outlet, through the Post Office, for the retail sale of stationery et cetera. If this suggestion is correct- in my opinion it would be contrary to all just business procedures- will the Minister take steps to see that this proposal is not implemented? 
-The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The table read as follows- 

Although that group of developing countries has benefited greatly, the impact on the nonoilproducing developing countries has been all but catastrophic. As I said, their indebtedness has soared to a crushing burden. As the table shows, the deficit counterpart of the surplus accruing to the OPEC countries for the non-oil-producing developing countries, particularly the countries of Asia, is of the order of $100 billion over that period. I should point out that the small OECD countries also bear a significant portion of the burden, amounting to $62 billion. All that is not to overlook the adjustment problems of the Western industrial countries in this situation, which manifested themselves particularly in the 1974-75 recession. 
In this context, the importance of a large increase in aid which has always been importanta very large increase in aid on a Marshall Plan scale, the  Economist  would advocate- is underlined and would be to the mutual benefit of developed and developing countries alike. In the 

<graphic href="106131197708174_25_0.jpg"></graphic>

absence of that, and looking to the West's selfinterest, the danger lies in the contraction of world trade as the debtor countries, especially the poor ones, are forced to cut down further on imports. That also underlines the fact that the task of providing aid in this way should no longer fall on the industrial countries alone, but in particular on the OPEC countries themselves. Of course, there is a whole area of aid in the Russian sphere of influence. In this respect, referring to the second Bill before the House establishing the International Fund for Agricultural Development, in which Australia has played an important initiating part, it is interesting to note that the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries group is contributing to the total of IFAD funds in roughly equicalent amounts to those contributed by the OECD countries. So we have the OECD countries and the OPEC countries contributing roughly equal amounts. 
In the context of these largely energy-imposed difficulties, particularly for the nonoilproducing developing countries, I cannot forbear from making a reference to the importance to those countries of the development of nuclear power for electricity generation to meet their expanding energy needs. The advantage to them is two-fold. Firstly, the development of the alternative energy source acts as a restraint on the further increase of oil prices. They obtain that benefit whether or not they themselves enter into nuclear power for electricity generation. Secondly, they establish nuclear plants in the countries themselves. Many have done so, and on an increasing scale- witness Iran, as I have said, and its obtaining of five nuclear power stations. All this bears on the decision whether or not to mine and export Australian uranium, and the Government is currently concerning itself with all aspects of that very complex matter before it announces a decision. While the Labor Party claims to have a monoply of concern for the morality of this matter, I wish to put this to the Australian public: Where would be the morality if this country, which has about .04 per cent of the world's population, refused to make available the 20 to 25 per cent of the world's high grade uranium reserves which it possesses to an increasingly energy hungry world? I put that to the House and to the Australian people in the context of the quite catastrophic impact on the non-oil-producing developing countries of higher oil prices. 
In conclusion, I strongly support the Bills before the House. In terms of the massive figures to which I have been referring the sums involved in these Bills are relatively small. But they do represent Australia's proportionate obligations in these contexts, and we are meeting them. We take this step and it is an important one, albeit a small one. The challenge and the dangers of a world which is one-third rich and two-thirds poor will long stand before us. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The document read as follows: 

-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The article read as follows- 


 -Mr Speaker has received advice from the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Wriedt)  that he has nominated  Senator Devitt  to be a member of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory to fill the vacancy caused by the resignation of  Senator Georges. 
-That is correct. 
Since it was first established in December 1976, the Joint Select Committee on Aboriginal Land Rights in the Northern Territory held 1 1 days of public hearings- 8 in the Northern Territory and 3 in Canberra. Evidence was taken from 65 persons. Towards the end of the inquiry the Committee divided into 4 sub-committees for visits to 16 Aboriginal communities for discussions with Aboriginal leaders on the subject matter of the inquiry. Under clause (a) of its terms of reference, the Committee was requested to examine and report on the provisions of the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act relating to the identification of traditional owners of Aboriginal land and the means of establishing the views of Aboriginal traditional owners to the satisfaction of the relevant Land Councils. 
Evidence before the Committee indicated that generally tribal people knew who the traditional owners of the land were and that disputes over ownership of land were rare. Because of this and other evidence placed before it the Committee concluded that the methods adopted to date by both the Northern and Central Land Councils are appropriate to identify the Aboriginal traditional owners. However, both Land Councils expressed concern at the pressure by various interests to identify traditional owners. The 
Committee believes that as a result of this pressure there is a risk that identification may not be as thorough as is considered necessary. The Committee stresses that part of the Government's on-going responsibility is to ensure that the Land Councils and the agencies involved in the identification process have adequate time and resources to carry out the necessary procedures for identification. 
The Committee concluded, on the point of consultation with traditional owners, that generally the procedures of consultation adopted by the Land Councils are appropriate. However, the Committee found that in some instances the communication of Land Council decisions was ineffective. Where a delegate may not have the necessary clarity of explanation, the Committee considers that trained Aboriginal officers of the Land Councils should be made available to explain any intended action of the Council to Aboriginal groups or to traditional owners. 
The Committee was charged with the responsibility of examining the Northern Territory legislation. Under clause (b) of its terms of reference the Committee was requested to report on the adequacy of provisions of the law of the Northern Territory relating to entry to Aboriginal land, the protection of sites of significance, wildlife conservation and entry to seas adjoining Aboriginal land. Under the Land Rights Act the Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory is empowered to make ordinances in respect of these matters. In the Act it is referred to as reciprocal legislation. In accordance with this power the Aboriginal Lands and Sacred Sites Bill was introduced into the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly on 3 March 1 977. This Bill, which relates to the protection of sites of significance, entry to Aboriginal land and entry to seas adjoining Aboriginal land, lapsed on the dissolution of the previous Assembly. The wildlife conservation aspect is covered in the Territory Parks and Wildlife Conservation Ordinance which was assented to on 26 May 1977. 
The Committee considers that the main deficiency in the Aboriginal Lands and Sacred Sites Bill was that the role of the Land Councils was reduced and as such did not accord with Federal Government policy. The Committee also considers that some of the provisions of the Bill were complex and confusing and could lead to uncertainty and delay in administration and enforcement. Many problems associated with the reciprocal legislation would have been overcome if close and meaningful consultation had been undertaken in the first instance by all parties concerned and because of this the Committee has concluded that such consultation should take place before the reciprocal legislation is reintroduced into the new Assembly. 
The Committee believes that the Northern Territory legislation should contain the following provisions: Power to delegate by the Land Councils,* permits to include conditions approved by traditional owners; conditions to include that a person should leave the land if requested by the traditional owners; power to revoke a permit with penalty for non-compliance; the right for a community occupying land not occupied by the traditional owners to issue permits to allow visits to that community; the traditional owner to have power to delegate; the traditional owner to give permission to enter his land in circumstances where it is not practicable to obtain permits from a Land Council; and that officials, politicians- I would prefer to use the word parliamentarians'- and police should notify in advance their intention to enter Aboriginal land. 
In respect of sacred sites the Committee believes that the Western Australian Aboriginal Heritage Act should be examined and, where appropriate, its provisions adopted. In particular any legislation should make provision for the initiative for the protection of sacred sites to rest with the Aboriginals themselves. A statutory authority with Land Council representation should be established and be responsible for coordination of requests for protection, the initiation of prosecution, and establishing the most appropriate method of protection in each circumstance. Sign posting and fencing should be avoided where possible. It should be mandatory for prior adequate consultation to be held between organisations and individuals and the relevant Land Council. If there is any proposed activity that requires earth works or clearing the maximum penalty for desecration of sacred sites should be sufficient to deter wilful desecration and the onus of proof to establish that the desecration was not wilful should rest with the defendant. 
In relation to wildlife conservation, while the Committee concludes that the provisions of the Territory Parks and Wildlife and Conservation Ordinance are generally adequate, some amendments are needed to make provision for the Parks and Wildlife Commission to negotiate and conclude agreements with the relevant Land Councils to protect fauna and to ensure that Aboriginals have a right to kill wildlife for food and ceremonial purposes in cases where there is no agreement with the Commission. 
In respect of entry to seas adjacent to Aboriginal Land, the strong views expressed to the Committee give credence to the suggestion that control of the seas by Aboriginals could give rise to ill feelings between the Aboriginal and nonAboriginal community. As far as nonAboriginals were concerned, there was ample evidence that there was substantial recreational use of the waters in the large centres of nonAboriginal population, such as Gove. Barramundi fishing is taking place within 2 kilometres of Aboriginal land or land under Aboriginal claim. The Committee notes that the Land Rights Act was drawn up so as to preserve existing rights. The provisions relating to mining are the most obvious example of this. The Committee is aware of the strong desire by Aboriginals to obtain rights over the 2 kilometres area. These expectations were raised in the Aboriginal community following recommendations by the Woodward Commission. The Committee believes that the non-fulfilment of these expectations could also have serious repercussions. The Committee is of the view that sacred sites within the sea should be protected. The Committee has endeavoured to formulate a proposal which takes account of the various points of view presented to it and the needs of the whole community. It therefore proposes that the Northern Territory legislation should make provision for the following: 
The right of Aboriginals to enter and use the resources of all waters adjoining and within 2 kilometres of the land in accordance with Aboriginal tradition. This right is to include the closing of areas of the sea which are of significance to Aboriginal communities, either for traditional use, or for enjoyment of the waters or for the creation of buffer zones; 
The ajoining areas in substantial nonAboriginal centres of population to be opened for recreational use; 
The rights of existing commercial fishing licences to be retained and that new fishing licences be issued only after consultation between the Fisheries Branch of the Department of the Northern Territory and the relevant Land Council; and 
The Aboriginal Land Commissioner to arbitrate in cases where disagreements arise between non-Aboriginal and Aboriginal interests over the use of the seas 2 kilometres from Aboriginal land. 
The majority of the members of the Committee believes that the Parliament should maintain a continuing oversight of the administration of the Land Rights Act to ensure that the letter and spirit of the Act have been observed. The report accordingly recommends that the Parliament establish a committee to inquire further into the operation of the Lands Rights Act. 
I have been reading the statement presented to the Senate by our  Chairman, Senator Neville  Bonner. The Committee was almost in unanimous agreement with most of that statement and most of the report. However there were several matters upon which one of my colleagues and I disagreed with the Committee. I think that this Parliament abdicated its responsibility to the Aboriginal people when it chose to place the responsibility for the implementation of legislation upon the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. This Parliament must accept full responsibility for Aboriginal Affairs. That is the responsibility placed squarely upon us by the referendum of 1 967. 1 think that the result of that referendum was one of the most emphatic demonstrations of public mandate that any Parliament could receive. Regardless of the political complexion of any of the other legislatures in this country we cannot remove ourselves from that duty. The fundamental issue is the advancement of the Aboriginal people of Australia to an equal place in this society with the rest of the community. That can be done on a proper basis only by the national Parliament and the national Government. 
Land rights is a fundamental question to the Aboriginal people. It is an issue that has not so much to do with the material way in which we look at the ownership of land as the spirit of the land. As described to us in the past, the Aboriginal people obtain spiritual refreshment from passage across land. Most of us can understand that feeling. There is a great wave of enthusiasm in this country for the preservation of the landscape and for those things which we value, either by inheritance or for the sheer beauty of them. We have to take that only a few steps further to have a better feeling about the land rights situation of the Aboriginal people. It does not stop with the land. 
The issue in the debate between myself and my colleague the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson),  a former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, and the rest of my colleagues, although not all of them, was the question of the rights to the sea. The Committee was not unanimous about this. Two of us have chosen to put in a dissenting report. That does not mean that others were in absolute agreement or that the Committee did not take a great deal of time to try to resolve the difficulty. It is my view that we should have conferred the ownership of the sea area, 2 kilometres from land, upon the Aboriginal people with rights of access to that area coming by application to the Aboriginal people. The Committee has chosen to advocate that, in fact, the sea shall be more or less open with rights to both Aboriginal and non-Aboriginal people but with absolute right of access to Aboriginal people. I do not trunk that goes far enough. I do not think we understand the spirit in which the Aboriginal people look upon the land and the sea. The sea is an extension of the land. It is not a different environment; it is a permanent part of their environment. 
I think the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly made a very poor effort to take up the duty imposed upon it by this Parliament and produce satisfactory legislation. It was unsatisfactory in many aspects. The Assembly was a most unsatisfactory agent in this regard. In fact, the legislation was not proceeded with. It was explained to us that it was tabled and was available for open debate. However, I believe the legislation was drafted by people who had little sensitivity towards the issues at stake. I believe it will be quite fatal for us to pass this duty over to any other agency, whether it is a State government or a legislative assembly. I believe it is time we took up the whole issue of land rights. It is time we did something in Queensland. Perhaps we should actually purchase from the Queensland Government such areas as the Torres Strait Islands, Palm Island and so on, and deed that land in trust to the Aboriginal community in the same way as we are talking of land rights in the Northern Territory. If we are going to wait for the 6 States to legislate equally with us in the spirit in which we interpret the needs of the Aboriginal people and the duties imposed upon us by the people of Australia, we will wait a long while. The Aboriginal people have been waiting toolong. 
The subject of land rights has been a difficult question for all communities everywhere. That is part of the great problems of the Middle East. It was thought that the Indian lands were made secure for the Indian people over 200 years ago by the British Parliament through the agency of that well known revolutionary, George III, by proclamation. The Maori lands were dealt with by treaty, I think in 1840. The Spanish laws of the 16th and 17th centuries provided absolute rights to land for indigenous people. None of those laws has succeeded. We nave a high and important duty. We have a difficult task. It will only be carried through if we ourselves supervise the matter down to the last full stop. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

<graphic href="106131197708185_85_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="106131197708185_86_5.jpg"></graphic>

I am pleased to advise the House that in some cases because of the original quality of the stones over the graves those graves have withstood neglect My friend the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  very kindly, following my request, visited the grave of Billy Hughes. The honourable member was very happy to report to me not only that the gravestone contamed a reference to the fact that Billy Hughes was a Prime Minister but also that the grave was in very good condition. But regrettably that grave is not typical of all. Some graves bear no reference to the fact that these people were Prime Ministers. Some are forgotten and neglected. There are two in England, namely, that of Andrew Fisher, a Labor Party Prime Minister, and that of  Sir George  Reid. I have already spoken to the daughter of Andrew Fisher - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The table read as follows- 

Column A is the trade balance for Mainland China, Japan. Korea, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Singapore, Malaysia, Thailand, Indonesia and Philippines. Column B is all of these without China. Column C is all of these without China and Japan. Column D is the ASEAN countries which are the last five mentioned in A. 
All columns show a general widening of the trade gap between our Asian neighbours and ourselves. 
Table B 

<graphic href="106131197708244_43_0.jpg"></graphic>

From January the quota levels in all these sectors - 
That is the textile groupswill be considerably scaled down, extending further the Great Barrier Reef around an already inhospitable coastline for exporters. 
Unfortunately our attitude to the ASEAN countries is already causing them some disquiet and some unhappiness. Yet we have enormous opportunities to trade in this area. It is an area in which there are very few vested interests. It is an area where we can enter markets to sell our wool, beef, iron, wheat, coarse grains, dairy products and rolled steel- our capital intensive manufacturers. Markets would open for all these commodities as they opened for us once before- in Japan, Korea, Taiwan and Hong Kong. In 1951-52 we sold a mere $105. 3m worth of goods to Japan, Korea, Taiwan and Hong Kong. By 1975-76 our sales to those countries had grown to nearly 700m worth of goods. That same opportunity would be available to us in the ASEAN countries. We would be able to establish an Australian interest there. We would be able to sell to these people if we bought from them. We can buy from these people to our own advantage. We can purchase goods that they produce more cheaply and more competitively than we can produce them. So long as their labour rates are substantially cheaper than ours these people will continue to produce more cheaper than we can. If we buy more labour-intensive products from them and sell to them products that require greater intensity of capital for their production we will both be in front. If, on the other hand, we try to defy market forces and be like a man trying to stand in front of a grass fire with a bag to beat it out, we will find ourselves in a small island with grass but with everything else burnt around us and still the imports will come in. If we block imports and continue to sell our exports our balance of payments will be driven up, we will be forced to revalue and the competition from those who would sell within Australia will become greater. Either we will have to raise our barriers against imports still higher or we will have to revalue again. The result is inevitable. I predict that like it or not we will have to face the problem of goods coming into our country to competition with goods produced by our less competitive labour-intensive industries. If we do not accept this equilibrium will still eventually be reached because as the ASEAN nations become wealthier their labour rates and their cost of production will rise. As we become poorer our relative labour rates and the cost of production of our labour-intensive goods will fall. Therefore equilibrim will be reached, but in a manner that will suit nobody. 
No one would suggest on the one hand that Australia should accept a very rapid rate of change. That clearly would be too disruptive. But on the other hand, if we turn our face against change and do not accept the inevitable fact that to remain a wealthy people and to remain with friendly neighbours to our near north, we must shift as quickly as we can without disruption towards capital intensity, towards those things that we do best and accept the goods of other countries, we will be as Canute was before the waves- we will get horribly wet. There are middle courses. We can do things to assist the restructuring of Australian industry where that is necessary. We can couple a policy of devaluation with a policy which assists those import competing industries to shift to more capital intensive import competition and to exports. If we do not do these things we will be poorer than we need be, we will not increase our employment one jot, and we will have some very unfriendly neighbours. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering both measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="106131197708255_23_0.jpg"></graphic>

I suppose I should offer my commiserations to the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes).  He represents a major city in Australia and he has taken on the job of spokesman for the Opposition on rural matters. I wish him a long and happy stay in that position. He was reported in the Press as having revealed that he had distributed to his colleagues a list of rural seats which had to be won by the Labor Party if it were to regain power. He added that if the seats were not won Labor need only think about shadow ministries. That is the point I just made. He carried on and said that it was his job to convince his parliamentary colleagues of the need to win these rural seats 'with at least as much effort as they had put into losing them'. I acknowledge his difficulty and I acknowledge the fact that therefore we ought to look, even if only briefly when we have the time, at the Labor Party's new rural policy. I have had a careful look at it but only on the basis of the evidence I have been able to glean from the Press and from some rather short Press releases from the Labor Party. 
The Labor Party's policy is significant in one way: It is a verbose, generalised series of commonplace statements that attempt to be statesmanlike by mentioning nothing specifically. The honourable member for Corio, so the Press tells me, tried 50 amendments to this policy document in Perth recently in an effort to give it some meaning but was defeated in all 50. 
The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  mentioned that in the Budget we are determined to tackle inflation. We are determined to tackle wage escalations that are ruining all small farmers in this nation. I have dealt briefly with taxation. My friend the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Sainsbury)  interjected when the Minister was speaking and said that the tuberculosis and brucellosis programs were vital. They are vital and this Government is providing a new input so that the States can more accurately plan than they have been able to do in the past. This is vital for all future meat exports. As America gets closer to achieving its aims in this direction more pressure will come onto Australian producers and exporters to meet similar conditions. It is vital that the Government has recognised this fact of life and has acted accordingly. Farm adjustment is another matter the Minister mentioned. All of us can remember the Opposition's repeated comments to the detriment of farmers in relation to the superphosphate subsidies. The sum involved was $40m. Nitrogenous fertiliser is of great importance in my area. This Government has retained the level of support for nitrogenous fertilisers for farmers. This is vital for farmers. It is vital that some of the cost inputs imposed on rural producers by the Dunstan Government in South Australia are compensated for in some way. 
The Government also is determined to tackle the problem relating to the proposed rural bank. My rural committee has prepared a most detailed paper on this matter. I was interested to hear what the honourable member for Adelaide had to say. As one could forecast, he spoke of going to the public sector and refusing to take any input from the private sector into credit facilities for rural producers. That we could all forecast and that we could all expect. I hope that the Government will come down with a much better balanced scheme affecting all people with credit to contribute to the scheme, whether such people be in the public sector or the private sector, whether they be associated with insurance companies or co-operatives. I am confident that that will happen. 
The Government has deferred the repayment of loans to canneries and brought in the income equalisation deposit scheme. The sum now in that scheme is of great interest and it proves its success. The Government is tackling stock valuation adjustments and the use of Division 7 for small private companies and its implication on wineries. This is most important. Family allowances are another problem. We have other needs which honourable members will take up. The wine-brandy industry is of great concern to me. 
What did the Labor Party do in its 3 years of office? It withdrew export market development rebates on all meat exports and the accelerated depreciation provisions were withdrawn. Outright deductions were withdrawn and investment allowances to primary producers were terminated. Fuel equalisation measures were terminated and section 31a was withdrawn much, I think, to the embarrassment in many ways, to give him credit, of the honourable member for Adelaide. The advantages of brandy over other Australian spirits were taken away. The excise on brandy, the manufacture of which is the only means of coping with the surplus that can occur from time to time in the grape industry, was increased by 230 per cent in 20 months by the Labor Government. Have we seen any increase since or any sales tax equivalent? Of course not. 
The wool floor price is another example of the debacle of the Labor Government's policy decisions that we can remember. Who will forget the standup fight between the Labor Party Executive and its Caucus on this issue while all confidence was taken from the industry at that time? Time is running out on me but I would like to thank the Australian Woolgrowers and Graziers Council for its general support for the thrust of this Budget. It was most important for us to know that that sector of the industry has confidence in the Government and supports its actions. Finally I mention again the Australian Labor Party's policy statement. We should debate it at greater length later on. It is a hotch potch of meaningless generalities. I thought that about 50 amendments to it were moved by the honourable member for Corio but all were defeated. He is reported to be searching for an image. I would have thought that that image has been quite firmly established. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Darling) (12.28)- It is a pleasure for me to support the move for a discussion in this House of the Fraser Government's neglect of rural industries. I was particularly pleased with the contributions made by the two speakers so far from the Opposition side. They put forward conclusive evidence showing that the Fraser Government's treatment of rural industry illustrates double standards and broken promises in another critical area. This Government has given nothing and has caused more and more hardship together with the denial of life's amenities that are enjoyed by more favoured sections of our community. My colleagues already have pointed out that this Government has failed to provide funds for beef classification. It has failed to make specific commitments to the proposed national rural bank. It has failed to introduce fuel price equalisation. It has removed income averaging and further retarded the progress of recovery by placing a large group of primary producers on a higher tax scale. All this is happening at a time when nearly every section of our rural industry is crying out for some return and some assistance, particularly in view of the great financial and physical contribution rural industry has made towards the development and wealth of Australia. 
The honourable member for New England, the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  said a lot about what the Government had done for the dried fruit growing area. He forgot to mention that the allocation for irrigation and pastoral water projects has been reduced from $28.6m in 1975-76 to $ 14.9m in 1977-78. He went on to talk about how the Labor Government treated rural roads. Everyone knows that the Labor Government increased the payment for rural arterial roads and also took over responsibility for national highways on the condition that the States would look after rural local roads. But the States pocketed the money, and most of them were Liberal and Country Party governments. If the honourable member for New England had ever gone into the dried fruits area he would know the implications of cutting back the appropriation for water resources. Pollution in the rivers is gradually destroying the dried fruits area, and that is the biggest complaint that will be heard in that area. 
I have continually approached the Government for assistance in my electorate. Honourable members need not take my word for that. They need not take my word for how much is needed in the rural industries. I refer the House to an article in the  Australian Financial Review  on 12 August by Brian Toohey. The article pointed out: 
With farm incomes estimated to fall by 14 per cent in real terms this year,  Mr Sinclair's  office staff earlier this week was happily allowing crews in to televise them opening piles of letters and telegrams congratulating the Minister on his attacks on British-born shop stewards in Australian tradeunions. 
As far as the  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  is concerned, the storm over his remarks about the British disease was just what was needed to give a kick along to his party's lagging reputation in the bush. The article continued: 
Ever since  Mr Fraser  took over as Prime Minister, the National Country Party cannot really point to any significant example of where it has managed to sway Government policy. 
The honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  criticised the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  for remarking that not all members of the Labor Party support its rural policy. How did the honourable member for Angas get on with the Government? Here is a report clearly indicating how successful he was. According to the latest projections by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics, real farm income is likely to fall by 14 per cent in 1977-78. What a proud record the Government has! 
I point out that when the Labor Party thinks of rural industries it thinks of all the rural industries, including country towns and small country businesses. It is not necessary to read the newspapers to understand the Fraser Government's lack of concern for these other amenities. In  Hansard  of 18 August the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  made a long speech in which he told the House that he had been battling without success for many years to get television in his electorate. I am sorry that the honourable member is not in the House, because I had some other nice things to say about him. He pointed out that after all those years the situation was hopeless. Perhaps the honourable member overplayed his hand. Surely there must be one or two areas which get television. I have been to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  several times about my electorate and have asked for some expansion of television coverage in the country areas. We have had an expansion to Cobar, Bourke, Menindee and some of those areas, but places such as Ivanhoe and Wilcannia have been on the edge of television for years. What has this Government done about it? What have members of the National Country Party done to relieve that situation? 
In the short time left to me today I want to say that the Labor Government did not just talk about things. We introduced the floor price for wool. No one can take that away from us. If the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  were here he would admit that it was pressure that I applied to him as  chairman  of the education committee which resulted in payments being made for isolated children. It is a pity that I have run out of time, because I have plenty more to say - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 Mr SCHOLES (Corio)-Mr  Deputy Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="106131197709062_25_0.jpg"></graphic>

New South Wales is hardly relevant yet but I expect that its record will mirror that of the other two Labor States eventually. The South Australian index starts at 133, which is equal to the Australian average. In five short years it increased to 263, the highest index of cost inputs for rural producers of any State in Australia. 
I conclude by saying that this has been a futile exhibition by the Opposition today to dare to bring on for debate this sort of issue. For a party which destroyed section after section of rural industry and then told them that they had never had it so good, takes some swallowing by me and by members of my electorate in South Australia. I leave my remarks at that. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="106131197709084_75_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="106131197709084_76_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="106131197709084_77_2.jpg"></graphic>

The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works recommended the construction of an animal health laboratory at Geelong- a laboratory to research animal diseases and prepare vaccines. My good friend the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  has ventilated this matter in the House many times. All that has happened down there in the space of two years is that the site has been cleared and some preliminary works have been done. No funds are to be provided this year for the construction of that laboratory. Yet honourable members opposite stand up in this place and say that they represent the interests of the farmers of Australia. Why have they not asked questions in this House about the matter? Why have they not pursued it? The Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  is a member of the National Country Party. Why have honourable members opposite not been after him to ensure that this facility is established for the benefit of their friends in the country areas? I have mentioned but a few of the many matters that can be discussed in connection with this Budget. My colleagues on this side of the House will ventilate many more in the course of this debate. Unfortunately, a speaking time limited to 20 minutes does not permit any one honourable member to do so. But the matters which I have ventilated tonight are in the interests of the people of Australia. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I suggest to the honourable member for Hunter that he phrase his remarks this evening very carefully. I have been listening carefully to what he has been saying. As the honourable member for Hunter knows, certain inferences can be made in such a manner that it is difficult for the Chair to rule that those inferences are an accusation or are unparliamentary. Not only should the honourable member for Hunter consider the Standing Orders but also he should consider the spirit of the Standing Orders in relation to other honourable members. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering both measures? I will allow that course to be followed. 
-I think the honourable member for Wills might be taking a risk. 
These Bills are simply efforts to dodge the responsibility to the patient and to complicate further the whole system. The Minister is attempting to solve the insoluble with such things as approved deficits. Nobody can predict in a time such as this with costs rising and inflation moving along, despite the Government's claims, what hospital costs will be. The various States have differential rates. There is a determinable need in this community. There is an acute shortage of nursing homes all over Australia. I understand that the waiting times for nursing homes in Canberra is upwards of 2 years in most instances. As an interesting example of a different set of priorities applying in the type of community in which we are presently operating I have an article from the Melbourne  Age  headed Pre-school Facilities Stun Expert'. A visitor from America saw the pre-schools here and said she was stunned by the variety, the quality and the number of them. 

 -Mr Speaker has received letters from both the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  and the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  proposing that definite matters of public importance be submitted to the House for discussion today. As required by Standing Order 107 he has selected one matter, that proposed by the honourable member for Blaxland, namely: 
The alarming growth of foreign equity and control in Australia's coal resources. 
I therefore call upon those members who approve of the proposed discussion to rise in their places. 

 More than the number of members required by the Standing Orders having risen in their places- 

-Is leave granted. There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="106131197709154_29_0.jpg"></graphic>

-It is not necessarily so. The Government is in charge of the business of the House. The Minister can move that the House take note of the paper. It depends upon the honourable member for Newcastle, but it might suit him to make his statement and for the motion that the House take note of the paper to be moved after that statement. But a motion could be moved now that the House take note of the paper and the honourable member for Newcastle could then speak to that motion. 
-I suggest that the honourable member for EdenMonaro keep his remarks to himself until he is called to make his speech. 
It is becoming increasingly clear to the people of this country that the poor state of the economy, which was accepted to be the case in December 1975, at the time of the election, was due not to policies of the Labor Government but to the world economic crisis which had overtaken all the developed and under-developed nations. 
A comparison of a wide range of indicators reveals that the economy in the last six months of 1976-77, when the Fraser Government's policies began to apply, was performing much worse than it had during the corresponding period of the previous financial year when the Labor Party was in power. Let me go through these indicators for the record. Non-farm product grew by 3.5 per cent in the first six months of 1976. It fell by 0.6 per cent in the corresponding period of 1977. Personal consumption rose by one per cent in the March and June quarters of 1976. It fell by 1.8 per cent in the same period of 1977. Private capital investment increased by 12.6 per cent in the first half of 1976, compared with a decline of 9.3 per cent in the six months to June 1977. 1 do not like repeating figure after figure, but it is necessary for these figures to go into the record where they will be used to good effect. They will show the people of this country that my point is true. My point is that as soon as the Fraser Government's economic policies began to work the indicators turned for the worse. 
Investment in dwellings rose by 14.3 per cent in the second half of 1975-76 and fell, after the Fraser Government took over, by 10.8 per cent in the half year to June 1977. Retail sales are stagnant in real terms. In the 12 months to July 1977 they rose by 1 1 per cent, compared with a rise in the goods component of the consumer price index of the same order. There was no growth in production during the last year. The Australian Bureau of Statistics indices of production for July this year reveal that 1 7 items had fallen in production during the last year, while only 14 items had risen. The Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd index of factory production in June was at the same level as it was 12 months earlier. Unemployment as measured by the Australian Bureau of Statistics labour force survey had risen by 25 per cent in the six months to last May. The number of registered unemployed with the Commonwealth Employment Service was some 68,000 higher in August of this year than it was in July 1976. Overtime levels at the end of June were no higher than those of 12 months earlier. This slump in activity in early 1977 was emphasised by the recent down-turn readjustment of the forecasts by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development of Australia's growth rate for 1977, from 3.2 per cent to 2 per cent. What a miserable, sorry record that is of the Fraser Government's policies. 
It is quite obvious from these statistics that the Government's economic policies, of which this Bill is an integral part, have had a detrimental effect on the economy. There is no reason to assume that the further cuts in capital outlays signalled by this Bill cannot bring about a further decline in activity. In fact, that is precisely what will happen. One of the rationale given by the Government for its policy of cutting back on public spending is that it is simply following a policy endorsed by the OECD. This is not true. It has never been true. It is true that many OECD countries have cut back the rate of growth of real government outlays, but they have not, as this Government has, cut the real level of public expenditure. 
It is worth comparing the attitude of the present Australian Government to public capital expenditure with that of the major OECD countries. This Government has been reducing government capital spending, of which State capital spending is a significant pan, since its first Budget. By comparison, the OECD outlook for July shows that in real terms the growth in government capital spending in the second half of 1977 will be 6 per cent in the United States, 13 per cent in West Germany and 18 per cent in Japan. It is generally recognised that government capital spending is an efficient and effective counter-cyclical tool. It can be increased when unemployment is high and reduced when the economy begins to pick up. 
It is obvious that Australia's performance in trying to solve the unemployment problem during the last two years does not compare favourably with that of some overseas countries. Unemployment in Australia in August was a seasonally adjusted 5.7 per cent of the work force, according to the Australian Bureau of Statistics labour force survey released as late as today. This is an increase of 30 per cent on the level of 18 months ago. Contrast this with a fall during the last 12 months of 3 per cent, one per cent and one per cent in the total number of unemployed in the United States, Japan and West Germany respectively. It is no coincidence that these three countries are following a policy of increasing the real level of government capital expenditure. 
A little earlier today I quoted from an opinion of Professor Warren Hogan, who is one of the Government's advisers, that the level of unemployment would not be 430,000 as I have just mentioned but 500,000, or 8 per cent of the work force. As I mentioned earlier also, a cut in public spending in general and a cut in the real level of funds to the States in particular has been the cornerstone of the Government's antiinflationary policy. When the cost of this strategy in terms of higher unemployment is measured many people would argue that the strategy would have to be very successful indeed to have any justification at all. The great tragedy is that the strategy has been singularly unsuccessful. Consumer prices rose by more in 1976-77 than they did a year earlier, and the Budget Papers tell us that there will be no improvement this financial year. Indeed, recent developments have shown inflation to have been accelerating in the first half of 1 977. For example, the implicit deflator for non-farm product at annual rates rose from 8.9 per cent in the second half of 1976 to 13.1 per cent in the first half of 1977. 
This Government's policies towards the States show at times scant regard for the States' ability to raise their own charges and hence exacerbate inflationary pressures. If this happens, any gains the central Government may hope to make by cutting public spending, and hence aggregate demand, will be immediately offset by price rises due to increased State charges. In many instances the States have been forced either to cut services or to increase charges. We mentioned this in the amendment which I have had the honour to move tonight and which will be seconded shortly by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren).  In some cases where services- for example, transport- cannot reasonably be cut, price rises are mandatory. 
The recent Victorian Budget contains examples of the results of this Federal Government's austerity. Last March the Victorian Government approved budgets for hospitals within the State. In its Budget of 7 September the Victorian Government was forced to cut these already approved plans by 5 per cent. The Premier,  Mr Hamer,  placed responsibility for this action squarely at the feet of the Federal Government, his own political colleagues. The Melbourne  Age  has reported him as saying that the Federal Government had unilaterally cut its share of the costs of community health centres and the school dental program and that the State had without warning been forced to carry a greater share of the burden than it had previously. It is worth noting in passing that such unilateral action is hardly the hallmark of a government that is interested in real cooperation between all tiers of government. Of course, that is only the window dressing- the words. When it comes to actions that is not an example of real co-operation between the central Government and the States. 
It now appears that all Victorian hospitals will be forced to impose staff ceilings and to place a ban on new beds and services. It is to be hoped that the inefficiencies that staff ceilings have caused in the Commonwealth Public Service will not emerge in Victorian hospitals. The consequences there could be far more serious. I repeat that over the last two days we have seen the results of staff ceilings outlined in the AuditorGeneral's report, which indicates that ridiculous staff ceilings have led to terrible inefficiencies in Australian Government programs and in the administration of the Australian Government. This could be repeated, and probably will be repeated, by this Government forcing the States to penny-pinch here and there. In some cases that will be applied to hospitals with dire results. As well as announcing a curtailment of services, Victoria's recent Budget foreshadowed stiff increases in rail, tram and bus fares. These will inevitably cause a rise in general price levels. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member for Denison will cease interjecting, as will the honourable member for St George, if I have blamed the wrong man. 
It is appropriate at this time, with Federal Ministers flying numerous kites about interest rate trends, to draw attention to the large increases in the borrowing programs of State authorities. The non-Loan Council following programs of the States are to rise by about 10 per cent in real terms for larger authorities and by over 20 per cent in real terms for smaller authorities. This compares with a 6 per cent real drop in borrowing under the Loan Council umbrella. State Loan Council programs are effectively underwritten by the Commonwealth, being part of its Budget. State, semi-government and local government authorities, of course, have to pay higher interest rates on their funds. This means that the larger the proportion of total State borrowing down through the authorities the greater is the cost to the State as a whole. By forcing the States to do more of their borrowing outside the Loan Council program, this Bill increases the States' borrowing costs. The Federal deficit looks better, but the States have to pay the price. 
Unfortunately, my time is almost at an end. I should like to summarise my points. This cut in public spending will cause enormous problems for the States. There is no area in which we need public spending more than in capital works. This Bill shows what a tragedy it is that these cuts have taken place. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. Is the amendment seconded? 
I wish to say a few words about this Budget and the amendment moved by the Opposition to the motion for the second reading of the Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1977-78. Once again we have seen the Opposition move an amendment to the Budget, an amendment that has no value and which is not backed by a logical presentation. 
Motion (by  Mr Les  Johnson) agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr Willis's amendment)  stand part of the question. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="106131197709202_44_0.jpg"></graphic>

Let us look at the Budget assumptions which appear on page 90 of  Hansard  of 16 August 1977. Two of the assumptions on which the Budget was based were that, apart from the 
Budget proposals themselves, there will be no new fiscal measures during 1977-78 and that Australia's balance of payments will strengthen. Both of these assumptions have been proved wrong already. Therefore the assumptions on which the Budget is based are wrong already. So what can we expect from the Budget in general? The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  appears to me to be a particularly inconsistent sort of person. It is not surprising, then, that the arguments that he presents to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission are not accepted. Let us take an example. He argued that the last Arbitration Commission decision on indexation should take into account tax changes which will be introduced next year. This is an argument one could possibly suggest. However, it contradicts the claim that the Commission should ignore Medibank levies and devaluation. The Government is arguing two opposite points of view, that the Commission should ignore what the Government does to the economy and at the same time that it should take note of when it helps the people in the economy. I do not think the Government can have it both ways. 
The Budget is far too contractionary. It is most inappropriate given the condition of the economy and it does nothing about unemployment and inflation, and the most depressing aspect is that the Treasurer himself admits to this situation. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table showing the numbers of persons registered as unemployed in certain areas. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The table read as follows- 

The numbers of persons registered as unemployed in the Employment Office areas requested were as follows: 

<graphic href="106131197709202_45_1.jpg"></graphic>

Pre-school expenditure has been cut, especially in New South Wales, and also in other States. The amount to be contributed by parents in New South Wales for pre-school education has been doubled. This is a significant handicap for many people who must send their children to pre-school There has been a cut in expenditure on hospitals in two ways. I quote from an article which appeared in the Melbourne  Age  on 8 September 1977 in respect of the Budget introduced by  Mr Hamer,  the Premier of Victoria. The article stated: 
The Premier,  Mr Hamer,  yesterday blamed the Federal Government for a 5 per cent cut in hospital budgets approved in March. 
He expressed serious concern at the arbitrary way the Commonwealth had cut draft hospital budgets without consulting the State. 
The article continues: 
It was fundamental that the States should be confident the Commonwealth would adhere to its side of the contract in cost sharing agreements. 
The States should not find themselves, without warning, carrying a much greater cost than expected. 
He said Federal Government had - 
I emphasise this- unilaterally cut its share of the costs of community health centres and the school dental program. 
These are parts of the cuts that this Government has introduced. An article in today's Melbourne  Age  points out that home dialysis treatment for kidney disease is in jeopardy in Victoria and probably in other States. The article was written by John Stevens who quite correctly points out that whilst it cost $18 a day to provide a patient with home dialysis treatment, the cost after hospital admission is at least $140 a day. The cost is probably more than that in the sort of hospital to which a patient requiring home dialysis treatment is normally admitted which is usually a teaching hospital. The cost is probably $200 a day. So by trying to save $18 a day and having withdrawn the Labor Government's initiative in this area which involved full federal funding for home dialysis treatment the Minister hopes to reduce expenditure but expenditure in fact will be increased. The cost to the community will be much greater because the cost to patients admitted to hospitals will be $ 140 or more a day. How can one possibly argue that this is an economical method of health care? It is a very superficial method of trying to save money. 
The Government introduced certain changes to Medibank. It argued that one of the reasons for the introduction of the changes was to improve the efficiency of the Medibank system. Let me give honourable members some example of this improved efficiency. As of 3 1 December 1975 100 per cent of the Australian population was covered by Medibank. The cost of the administration of the Health Insurance Commission in that year was $5 1.8m. The percentage of population covered by Medibank has now dropped to 33 per cent and the administrative cost of the Health Insurance Commission increased to $60m during 1976-77. What a ridiculous way of pretending to improve efficiency. The Government is increasing the cost and yet it is covering far fewer people for the benefits which the system provides. 
There are many other areas in which the Government has cut expenditure on health. The community health program has been quite significantly cut by the Government not providing for any increase. The Government has reduced from 75 per cent to 50 per cent its contributions to the capital cost and from 90 per cent to 75 per cent its contribution to operating costs. Health expenditure in general has been cut in real terms. The Government continues to misallocate resources in its provision of health services by failing to increase funds in areas which put the emphasis on health maintenance; for example, the community health program, drug education, the school dental scheme, family planning and so on. At a time when health care costs are exploding, the Fraser Government is turning its back onrograms that will save money in the long term y reducing institutional care and preventing illness. I therefore strongly support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  and deplore the attempt by the Prime Minister and the Treasurer to deceive the Australian people into believing that this Budget is of any significant benefit to them. 
I appreciate the fact that in both our international and our domestic political scenes there are times when people are rather cynical about the actions of certain individuals or governments. I think just recently there have been a couple of instances which rather highlight this point. In the few brief moments available to me I want to make some comment about one or two circumstances and instances. 
The first was the action of the French in protesting against a suggestion that the South African Government was going to manufacture a nuclear weapon. When one considers the criticism which was levelled against the French a short time ago in regard to their actions in the Pacific, I think the comments and actions of the French in this particular instance amount to international hypocrisy. I am not arguing about or commenting on whether the South Africans are going to manufacture this weapon. But I think it was rather hypocritical for the French Government to make the comment that it made. 
A second matter I wish to comment upon is something that has happened in Australia which has escaped the notice of many people. I refer to the cynical action of the Premier of South Australia in the appointment of a Governor for that State. This must be one of the most cynical political actions I have ever seen. I do not think that I need to enlarge on the matter or to speak further on it. I think the position should be so obvious that there is no need to make further comment. The actions of the Premier in making that appointment reflect upon the standard of political ethics of the political party in power in that State. 
I also wish the make some comments about country areas of Australia. A great deal has been said about the problems and the difficulties of the country man. Many Government supporters and members of my Party, the National Country Party, including myself, have been highlighting these problems and difficulties in the speeches we have made and in discussions that we have had. Some criticisms have been made of the Government by the Cattlemen's Union. I think those criticisms have been answered by many of my colleagues. But, before these people go off the rails completely, I point out that they should realise what the Australian Labor Party did to them in the short time that it was in power. Every time that they criticise this Government or make a comment on what this Government has failed to do, in their opinion, they want to remember not only what the Labor Government failed to do but what the Labor Government did and the situation of the rural industries under that Labor Government. 
I make a brief comment in regard to financial arrangements between the Commonwealth and the States. A great deal of criticism has been made in recent weeks by the States in regard to finance from the Commonwealth Government One newspaper had this to say in an article it carried only the other day: 
Strikes and other stoppages would add $2m to the $ 176.3m completion cost of the Westmead Hospital, the New South Wales Minister for Health,  Mr Stewart  said yesterday. 
A great deal of comment has been made also by certain members of the Labor Party and executives in the Labor movement about the fact that there have been fewer strikes and less industrial trouble in recent weeks and months. On the figures this may be correct. But I point out also that a great deal of this industrial trouble has been in certain key areas. The trouble in those certain key areas has contributed to the difficulties confronting this Government in stabilising the economic and employment situation. We are told in that newspaper article that $2m will be added to the cost of that hospital. That accusation was made by the New South Wales Government which has accused the Federal Government of reducing expenditure in the field of education and in other areas. Yet the Federal Government has been giving to the States more money since it came to office than the States have ever received before. The States also have received a greater percentage of the Commonwealth revenue. This is one of the reasons why the States have their problems and difficulties. The States should look at this factor instead of blaming this Government for the troubles. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Darling) (10.48)-Last Thursday night in this House the matter of the 
Latham affair was raised. I should inform the House that I do not want to become involved in this dispute. I have had nothing to say about it outside the Parliament; and I did not want to say anything about it inside the Parliament. Prior to entering Parliament, I was the secretary of the Barrier Industrial Council. Therefore, it might seem a little odd to some people that I do not want to become involved in the Latham dispute. But I can give a good reason for this: When I entered this Parliament, I became a full time politician. I have a big country electorate. It takes me a long dme to get right around it. I have no time to study the industrial affairs of Broken Hill or any other place. That is one of the reasons for my not becoming involved; but, of course, there are other good reasons for my not doing so. The trade union movement in Broken Hill is very efficient and very capable. Also, it is very law abiding. The Broken Hill trade union movement went before the Industrial Commission with this case. I did not get involved in this matter until someone asked me to raise the matter of a certain person not receiving his mail. I am very pleased to be able to say that I was told by the Barrier Industrial Council that it would accept the conciliator's direction in that regard. That certain person got his mail. 
Unfortunately, due to the action of the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Birney)  telling everyone that he could get legal aid for  Mr Latham,  a bit of feeling has been stirred up against this Government. The people in Broken Hill feel that the conniving involvement of the Fraser Government in the Latham dispute at Broken Hill is consistent with the very familiar pattern of rottenness of this Government when dealing with the workers of this country. I think I have almost enough evidence to prove that case, but I do not believe it myself. I do not think the Government should be condemned for the action of one individual. I have had some dealings with the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street).  I think I have managed those dealings well, in view of the feedback. I have had some very strong words to say about the actions of the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  and I have had some very strong words to say about the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  I have to acknowledge in return that they have been more than fair. I shall read to the House what they have said. The Prime Minister said: 
There are many unique characteristics about the industrial and commercial relationships in that area and they have many attributes which can be highly praised, no doubt largely due to the honourable  gentlemen's  representations. 
They are the words of the Prime Minister. In answer to a question I asked him, the Deputy Prime Minister said: 
. Broken Hill has made a magnificent contribution to the Australian economy over a long period of time. In fact. Broken Hill is the basis of all our major industrial growth in this country, and I think we would all recognise that. As to what my colleague, the honourable member for Macarthur, said- 
I will not go on with that quotation. I cannot be as charitable to the honourable member for Phillip. I do not know what motivates him. It is great to have educated barristers in the Parliament, but I think the problem arises when we strike an uneducated barrister. I think that is where the tragedy occurs. I believe that this Government and the honourable gentlemen on that side of the House - 
-The honourable member for Mackellar 's time has expired. Is the amendment seconded? 
-Is leave granted? 
-Matters have been incorporated previously in  Hansard.  Ultimately the decision about whether a matter is incorporated in  Hansard  falls within the responsibility of  Mr Speaker  and the Government Printer. I would imagine that the documents referred to would be looked at by  Mr Speaker  and the Government Printer to determine the practicability of their incorporation in  Hansard.  That is a technical matter and  Mr Speaker  will make the decision. 
-I call the honourable member for Burke. 

 The bells being rung- 

-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
I know and understand the bilateral problems which exist. Whether there will be a need for a bilateral agreement between the Australian Government and the British Government is something that has to be worked out. I hope that the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  will get on with the job and come to an understanding, if an understanding has to be arrived at, between the Australian Department of Transport and the United Kingdom civil aviation authority. So the main thing is to get cracking. The Laker organisation has been able to do something as far as the tourist industry of the world is concerned because there is no doubt that its walk-on walk-off philosophy in Europe has forced the Atlantic operators to reduce the price of their fares. Fares have come down quite substantially. I hope that we will get a similar state of affairs here. 
Over the years we have seen other charter operators throughout the world. For example, from the United States World Airways brought groups of people to Australia a few years ago. Permits were issued in 1973 for that company to fly charters into Australia. Qantas was not in any way disadvantaged because it was shown that the people World Airways was bringing were coming out as a result of a sales promotion technique which was applied by large manufacturers and wholesalers in the United States. If a retailer sold a certain amount he got so many free tickets on a charter flight to somewhere in the world. It was clearly established that if such people did not come to Australia they would have gone to Japan, South Africa or somewhere else. I see the charter operation as a similar situation to that of  Mr Laker. 
I think we can expect air traffic to operate at two levels. We have the prestigious traveller who likes to travel up front in first class because he likes to get the Captain's bag and to be a member of the Captain's Club. He likes to have cigarettes or cigars stuck in his hand every five seconds of the flight. If he does not have a cigar he has a glass of scotch or wine or some such thing. This is the way in which airlines overfeed people. This is all part of the sales technique. Those people are not interested in Laker's performance. The people who travel economy have the alternative. They can either go first class or economy. Some of those people will continue to travel first class for one reason and that is that they like the prestige of having cigarettes or cigars and grog pushed at them all day long. 
I believe a substantial market is available to pick up the proposition which people have put forward where they are proposing to introduce what we could probably call a third class ticket. At least it is an off-season ticket whereby they pull the price down from $850 return to $530. This will now allow people to take two years' annual leave and away they go. I am thinking of Australians going overseas probably to visit their relatives. We are not really interested in promoting that sort of travel, but we have to face the facts of life. We are after the overseas people who will likewise be in a position of being able to pack up and come out to Australia for a low cost, short term holiday, probably in their annual leave or long service leave period. 
This is the way in which I think we can promote this. After all, Australia is a high cost tourist centre. It will be an advantage if we can at least get people here at a reasonable cost. A flight from Australia to England or England to Australia takes only about 26 hours, including the usual one hour stop-over in Singapore and probably some other place. If people are disadvantaged by some congestion they are not seriously disadvantaged as in actual flying time it is only a 24-hour flight. On that basis we consider this to be a good proposal. 
From the Australian point of view, it has already been established that every S per cent increase in the number of tourists coming into Australia provides about 1,400 jobs. It generates that amount of employment and development in the tourist industry. It is obvious that the States are now indulging in much more intensive campaigns than they were previously. Recently the House of Representatives Select Committee on Tourism visited Tasmania. The Tasmanian Government and a number of people down there- the Von Bibra family in the Ross area, for example- are doing an excellent job in making that State more attractive to not only Australian tourists but also overseas tourists. 
These are the things which have to be considered. In the final analysis, even though the Australian Government might put money into assisting the development of our tourist industry, it will get a heck of a lot back in the form of taxation. We know that payroll tax goes to the States, but the rake-off for the Federal Treasury in the form of company tax and other taxes will total about a 34 per cent return on capital investmentthe investment by the Australian Government by way of assistance, initiative and incentive to encourage the tourist industry. We on this side of the House support the proposition. 
-I call the Minister for Productivity. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering both measures? There being no objection, I shall allow that course to be followed. 

 -Mr Speaker has received advice from the Leader of the Opposition that he has nominated  Mr Morris  to be a member of the Standing Committee on Road Safety in place of  Mr Cohen. 
-I call the honourable member for Phillip. 
Liberal and Country Party back bench members are acting disgracefully, individually as well as collectively, in order to divert attention from the real issues. Last Friday, 16 September, an article appeared in the Sydney  Daily Mirror  and the Adelaide  News,  written by Trevor Kavanagh, entitled M.P. Afraid After Row On Latham'. 
He alleged that the story was a fabrication and was fabricated by myself. He further alleged that at no time was I threatened in any way by anyone in this Parliament. I did not fabricate the story. The scene, or to use the words of the honourable member for Adelaide, the action and the frenzied gesticulation by members of the Opposition amid much uproar were witnessed by many members on both sides of the House. It was a disgrace and a demeaning of the institution of Parliament.  Mr Kavanagh  is a Sydney journalist who is respected in journalistic circles and by members of this House as a person of great competence, integrity and accuracy. These latter attributes have been justifiably earned by him during the years. He is one journalist who checks his facts before going to print. There was no exception in this instance. Typically, the honourable member for Adelaide denigrated my wife on the basis that she gets stories put into the Sydney  Sun.  He never bothered to check with the  Sun  because he knew his statements were false. I warn him to desist from personal attacks on women, especially my wife. He stands condemned as a coward. 
-Is leave granted? 
MrScholes-No. 
-I point out once more that honourable members are not to carry on discussions with visitors in the Speaker's Gallery. The practice of honourable members speaking to people in the gallery is becoming a little more prevalent, and I ask honourable members to observe the relevant Standing Order. 

<graphic href="107131197710191_42_3_5_A.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="107131197710191_42_3_7_P.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="107131197710191_42_3_6_N.jpg"></graphic>

Question so resolved in the negative. 
Motion ( by  Mr Keith  Johnson) proposed: 
That the Minister be not further heard. 
Should any of these questions be negatived, - 
I draw your attention to the vote which has just taken place in the House- no similar proposal shall be received if the  Speaker  or the  Chairman  is of opinion that it is an abuse of the orders or forms of the House, or is moved for the purpose of obstructing business. 
I suggest that the motion just moved by the honourable member for Burke was moved with the intention to obstruct the business of the House and I suggest,  Mr Speaker,  that you rule the motion out of order. 
-I propose the question: 
That the House do now adjourn. 
-It being 10.30 p.m., in accordance with the order of the House of 10 March 1977 I propose the question: 
That the House do now adjourn. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I propose the question: 
That the House do now adjourn. 

 Mr McLEAY (Boothby-Minister for Con  structions-Mr  Deputy Speaker,  I  require that the question be put forthwith without debate. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
APPROPRIATION BILL (No. 1) 1977-78 In Committee 
Consideration resumed. Second Schedule 
-Is leave granted? Leave is granted. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The paper read as follows- 

-In spite of the assistance that I am getting from many honourable members, the answer to the point of order raised by the honourable member for Wimmera is that in a strict sense, of course, a cognate debate is an arrangement of the House which assists debate on legislation when there is a basic principle involved in the subject matters of the legislation before the House. When a cognate debate is held and the individual questions are put, there is always an opportunity for honourable members to comment on the individual questions. Normally that does not happen because honourable members have said what they desire to say during the cognate debate. The reason that the honourable member for Fremantle and the honourable member for Corio spoke about the Western Australian situation at this point of time is that the motion before the House deals with the redistribution in Western Australia. The redistribution for Victoria, South Australia and other States have been agreed to by the House. Therefore, the debate on those States is completed. The matter of the gagging of the cognate debate is not within the province of the Chair, except that the chair must put the question. The motion before the House concerns the redistribution in Western Australia. 
-No point of order is involved. I remind the honourable member of the decision that was made by the House. The honourable member was in the chamber when that decision was made. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

Asbestos, Bauxite, Chromite, Emery, Fluorspar, Graphite, Ilmenite, Kyanite, Magnesite, Manganese Oxides, Mica, Monazite, Pyrite, Quartz Crystals (piezo-electric quality), Radio-active Ores, Rutile, Sillimanite, Vermiculate, Zircon. 
Ores of- Antimony, Arsenic, Beryllium, Bismuth, Cobalt, Columbium, Copper, Lithium, Mercury, Molybdenum, Nickel, Osmiridium, Platinum, Selenium, Strontium, Tantalum, Tellurium, Tin, Tungsten, Vanadium. 
-I call the honourable member for Wentworth. I am sorry; I call the honourable member for Mackellar. 
-Is leave granted? 
Motion (by  Mr Viner)  agreed to: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the remaining stages being passed without delay. 
Bill (on motion by  Mr Viner)  read a third time. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The document read as follows- 


<graphic href="107131197711016_18_0.jpg"></graphic>

Indeed, it has gone beyond that. It is exporting much more than it earned in the latest period for which data is available. It is generously treated by government. I indicated how generously Ford, as a participant in the local content motor car plan, is generously treated. But Utah is even more generously treated. We introduced the coal export levy when in government and we make no apology for it because that redistributed profit from that company back into Australia, which would otherwise have gone overseas. In redistributing that profit back into this country we provided benefits for people in a myriad of areas where we took up responsibility, such as school dental services, community health services, better roads and improvements in urban environment, Aboriginal welfare and education. Those vast areas in which we did accept responsibility were assisted in some way by the redistributional processes. This was part of that redistributional process. Let us not have any argument that the present Government is opposed to redistribution. It supports it. The dispute really is about who benefits from that redistribution. This Government believes that it is better to redistribute away from the mass of people in this community to the advantage of influential and wealthy organisations like the Utah organisation- an organisation which is exporting as rapidly as it can its earnings in this country. 
In the last two years-last year and this yearthe effects of the progressive reduction of the coal export levy mean a reduction of $60m in income otherwise available for the benefit of the Australian community. It means, in terms of the Utah organisation, a windfall gain and an addition to profits not being earned in any way by any additional exertion or contribution to the Australian community of $25m. I suppose that the Government will argue, as some of their spokesmen have argued, that Utah as an organisation displays a generous corporate spirit towards the Australian public. Let me put that argument to rest. By the end of 1976 the Utah Foundation had distributed the princely sum of $668,551 in donations within Australia in various welfare, research and cultural areas. That is not a bad return for such a small outlay. It received a $25m reward from the Government for a contribution to the community marginally more than half a million dollars. It is like sowing grains of salt and reaping harvests of gold, and the Australian public is providing the gold. 
The Utah organisation has a bad foreign corporation image. It is sad to note that the Ford Motor Company is now listed with Utah because of its behaviour in relation to the export of massive amounts of funds earned in this country to its overseas parent body in a way which creates considerable instability in the Australian economy. Utah is manipulated by the Queensland Government to its own advantage. There may be an argument about the nature of industrial disputes. There may be some particular aspects of argument about the industrial dispute between Utah and the seamen. While the Government refuses to accept its responsibilities in ensuring that a more reasonable amount of the massive profits reaped from this country's natural resources are being redistributed, to the advantage of this community, I think it not surprising that industrial organisations like the Seamen's Union will react and will seek to claim that at least their members should enjoy some of that profit which they believe rightfully belongs not only to this country but also to posterity. 
Let us look at the situation pertaining to Utah. It is earning $137m with only 3,000 employees. In comparison, the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd earns $66m with more than 60,000 employees. At least the Australian company is prepared to create jobs for people in this country and is prepared to contribute to the Australian economy and does not shift in a most destabilising way massive amounts of Australian earned funds. Funds earned from Australian resources belonging to Australian people; funds sent out of the country to the disadvantage of the people of this country because of the instability caused to the Australian economy through adverse effects on the balance of payments. 
What has to be acknowledged by the Government is that the corporate interests of organisations such as Utah are not congruent with the Australian public interests. Utah is a price cutter. It is prepared to cut the throats of domestically owned Australian coal producers. As the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  pointed out in this House a few weeks ago, while the long term price for the sale of contract coal to Mexico is $A47 a tonne, in its spot contract sales Utah has been cutting the price to SA32.40 in Greece, SA34.55 in the Netherlands, SA34.20 in Belgium. So it is slashing the price by between $A13 and $A15 a tonne below the long term contract price. It is not operating in the best interests of the Australian community. 
Let us look very quickly at the effects of that. Most serious effects are injected into the economy via the balance of payments. If we have a situation in which, because of the substantial increase in the net outflow of dividends and because of the absence of a capital inflow we are running a deficit on our balance of current account and capital account which in total well exceed the surplus on the balance of trade, we have a balance of payments problem. Our reserves are being eaten away. Since midSeptember official borrowings and the revaluation of gold have added $8 16m to our overseas reserves. Because of the clumsy and incompetent way in which that was handled- the area of incompetence is one area in which the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman),  who is interjecting, could make a distinct contribution because that is the only area in which he has any special qualifications- in spite of the official borrowings and the revaluation of gold adding $8 16m to our reserves since mid-September, our reserves have increased by only $ 1 97m. So there has been a massive outflow of $6 18m. The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  might perhaps like to argue that there has been an increase of $ 16m in reserves since the week of 26 October. That was largely due to the $85m earnings from the sale of raw sugar which had previously been held up in Tokyo Bay. So we are far from being out of the woods. What has to be done? The Ford company has to be reminded of the favourable position which it enjoys in this country and the advantages which it derives at the expense of the consumer. The Utah organisation has to be required to pay the withholding tax which applies to other companies. That would be a simple matter of introducing legislation to provide a special tax rate for foreign owned branches in this country which unlike foreign owned subsidiaries otherwise avoid their withholding tax liability. A special corporate rate of about 53 per cent corporation tax imposed on such branch organisations will overcome this problem. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
The discussion is now concluded. 
-Ring the bells!  (Quorum formed). 
In many ways this BUI is a symbol of a great victory obtained by the honourable member for Braddon for his constituents. He has put in long hours working on this problem for many months, but never once, to my knowledge, has he sought publicity. Never once has he demonstrated the capacity to grandstand, as have some honourable members opposite. 
-Is it the wish of the House to proceed to the third reading forthwith? 
I wish to make only a couple of comments in regard to the Broadcasting and Television Amendment Bill. Firstly, I will not be voting in the Committee stage. The main reason for that is that I am a director of a radio station and I have a pecuniary interest in a television station. I therefore feel that it would be far wiser for me not to vote on this Bill. I completely disagree with many aspects of the Bill. One of the disappointments is that there is almost more socialisation in this Bill brought forward by this Government than there ever was under the previous Labor Minister. 
I think the amendments moved by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  give food for thought. They highlight some of the problems and difficulties of the Bill. I hope that the Government will give deeper and further consideration to the aspects and factors relating to this Bill. At some later stage we might have brought in a Bill which is more favourable to the public, the industry and the authorities. 
-Order! I have looked at the amendment. I have looked at the Bill. Standing Order 227 states: 
Any amendment may be moved to any part of the bill, provided the same be within the title or relevant to the subject-matter of the bill, and be otherwise in conformity with the standing orders of the House. 
The honourable member for Mackellar has moved in these terms: 
After clause 3 add the following new clause: 
This Act shall cease to have effect on 3 1 March 1 978. 
In my opinion that amendment is not relevant to the Bill, is not within the title and is not relevant to the subject matter of the Bill. I think therefore that the amendment is out of order. 
-The honourable member will raise his point of order and raise it quickly. 
-Is the amendment seconded? 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the three measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering both measures? 
-Is leave granted? 
Suspension of Standing Orders 
-I call the honourable member for Shortland. 
In relation to the purchase of the land the Minister told the House on 3 November 1977 that he had no knowledge of the activities of the Department of Administrative Services, that that Department was totally independent of his Department, that the vendor was personally known to him; 
On 7 November 1977 he then told the House he had spoken to the Secretary of the Department of Administrative Services about the matter in December 1 976; 
In relation to the purchase of the land he had asked that a local stock and station agent be appointed, contrary to a statement he made in the House on 4 November 1977; 
5 ) As Minister for Transport after the change of government in 1975, he suggested that the Omega base be located in east Gippsland whereas, as Minister for Transport in 1972, he had stated that a choice would be made for the base between sites near Nerang or near Deniliquin; 
On 3 November 1977 he told the House that $190 an acre was paid for the land at Darriman when at that date the land in question had not been purchased but only an option had been bought. 
It is clear from an examination of the relevant files on this matter that the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  has misled the House on several counts. If one looks back over the history of the whole series of events- 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  agreed to: 
That the honourable member for Shortland be not further heard. 
-Is the motion seconded? 

 -Mr Speaker, let me take this opportunity to extend to you my warmest congratulations on your reappointment as the  Speaker  of this House. A certain phrase about life was supposed to have been used by a very distinguished gentleman. Perhaps I could use another phrase about life and say that parliamentary life is not always certain. 
I offer you my congratulations. It has been a pleasure to work with you. There is one thing in particular that I would like to say at this time: This institution of ours is facing many challenges. The events of the last few days and the last few weeks have shown that Australia is playing a more and more important part in the lives of the countries that are close to us and also of countries that are more distant from us. Problems are being faced in regard to the European Economic Community. I opposed from the very beginning the move by the United Kingdom to enter the European Economic Community. I can remember at a conference in Kuala Lumpur speaking forcefully, but not successfully, against Britain's entry. I think that that has placed more and more responsibility on to the shoulders of Australia and on to the shoulders of members of this House. 
I would like to refer to the importance of the parliamentarian. I believe that you,  Mr Speaker,  have a complete and absolute appreciation of that importance. It is also important that the Chair should protect the Opposition. Some people may feel at times that the function of the Chair is purely to assist the Government. In this day and age, with some of the problems facing this country, bearing in mind the Government's majority I sincerely believe that there is an even greater responsibility on the Chair to ensure that the rights of the parliamentarian are protected. I have no doubt that you, having been appointed  Speaker,  will see that that protection is given. 
I would like to pass on to you my personal thanks and appreciation. It has been my privilege to serve under four magnificent Speakers, all four of them being distinguished, courteous and capable gentlemen. The present occupant of the chair matches the others under whom I have served. 
-If my memory serves me correctly, at one time the British Broadcasting Commission in the United Kingdom had a radio program entitled 'What a Week That Was'. I think perhaps I might be able to say that about certain aspects of the week that has just passed. I take this opportunity to claim the indulgence of the House to express my very deep appreciation to so many people in Parliament House- members and staff, attendants, car drivers and so many other people, including some members of the media- who have expressed their concern and their sympathy to me in regard to both matters that have affected me recently. I do appreciate those expressions of concern and I take this opportunity to express that appreciation. 
As honourable members know the House is debating the Address-in-Reply to the GovernorGeneral's Speech. It is a formal occasion, an occasion on which new members of the Parliament make their maiden speeches. I congratulate those new members who have made their maiden speeches. Although I have been a member of this House for some time I remember the occasion when I made my maiden speech, even though some honourable members might suggest that I would not be able to do so. The making of a maiden speech is an ordeal for any honourable member. I think the only consolation for members is that everyone else in the House has gone through exactly that same experience. I congratulate the new members on their maiden speeches. As I have said, it is a formal occasion when we speak in the debate on the AddressinReply to the Governor-General's Speech. Yet it is also a very important occasion because it is an occasion when a government presents its policy for a new Parliament. It is the occasion when it presents a new policy to the people of the country. On that occasion the Opposition, as well as making certain comments in relation to particular aspects of the Governor-General's 
Speech, has an opportunity to put forward an alternative policy as an alternative government. As I read this Speech of His Excellency the Governor-General I noted certain comments in it. Of course, I agree with many of them, but I believe that certain aspects of it should give us cause for concern. 
When I congratulated  Mr Speaker  upon his appointment to that office I made the point that, because in this Parliament the Opposition has rather fewer numbers than has the Government, there is a greater need to emphasise and to realise the role played by a parliamentarian, whether he is on the Government side or the Opposition side of the House. We should never forget that. As honourable members opposite know, I frequently do not agree with the views they express. Perhaps there have been occasions when I have not been sitting in that chair which you are currently occupying,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  when I too have transgressed the Standing Orders. On those occasions when I did occupy that chair it may have been a case of my saying: 'Do not do as I do; just do as I say'. I might add also that when I did say that I had one advantage, and that was the numbers to support me. 
As I said, it is really important that members of parliament realise the part that they play. I say to the media that it is all right for it to criticise members of parliament as much as it likes as far as their work is concerned but it should not, as so often happens, belittle parliamentarians when there is no justification for it. If we destroy this institution we destroy one of the basic foundations of the very existence and the progress of our country. I can remember speaking many years ago to a group of leaders in one of the newly developing countries. I will not name the country, but its leaders said to me: 'We need for the progress and development of our country a one-party system. You can have the luxury of a two-party system in Australia because you have made progress'. Some people might disagree with that point of view, but let us accept it for the sake of argument. One of the leaders said: 'We have so many problems, so many things that we have to do in this country, that we need one concentrated, united effort. Therefore we need the one-party system'. I said to this man: 'I accept your argument, but do not forget that there is always one danger, and that is that with a oneparty system, with one man literally in authority, there is a danger that when you achieve that purpose, that fulfilment and that progress, the joys and privileges of power will become such that there will be a reluctance to hand that power over to someone else or to run the risk of that power being taken away from you '. 
I think perhaps that we who operate in the Federal sphere should remind ourselves of that, because it has been said so many times- perhaps I should know it better than other honourable members at this time- that this is a numbers game. After all, whether one is in government or in opposition, as far as legislation is concerned it is a numbers game. Naturally enough the Government must put its legislative program into effect because it has the mandate from the people to do so, but I sincerely believe that we must never forget that the Opposition has a part to play. The Opposition must be allowed to play that part. to the maximum effect or the Parliament will suffer.  
Having said that, I turn to that part of the Governor-General's Speech which states: 
They know our nation's prospects are limitless, and that by working together Australians can overcome the great challenges of unemployment and inflation and restore our nation 's economy to full vitality. 
I believe that to be true, but I also believe that perhaps there has not been sufficient emphasis placed in certain quarters- perhaps in many quarters- to remind each one of us that it is the responsibility of each one of us. It is the responsibility of big business; it is the responsiblity of trade unions; it is the responsibility of the media and of parliamentarians. It is the responsibility of every section of the community. I have been critical of the trade unions on a number of occasions, and I will continue to be critical when I believe that that is justified. However, there are times when big business has not played its part in contributing to our progress and development. I believe that the time has come when big business, as well as government which is also big business, must play its part also. The GovernorGeneral went on to say: 
This Government's economic policies will continue to be based on: Rigorous restraint of Government expenditure so as to provide for longer term expansion in the private sector. 
I think that is an important point and I believe it must be given continuing consideration. I believe also that the time has come when we as a government must look at the contribution that we can make and should make to private enterprise by means of certain measures which only a federal government can introduce, that we must do so in a manner which will not increase the danger of continuing the inflationary spiral but which will contribute to the reduction in the unemployment rate and to the turning again of the wheels of industry. I believe we must look at that matter. The Speech continued: 
My Government rejects the notion that there can be a trade-off between inflation and unemployment. It will continue to give the highest priority to reducing inflation, for only in this way can there be a sustained reduction in unemployment. 
I agree with that statement. I believe that what I have just stated must be taken into consideration as well. I will have more to say about that point later. I believe that we have to give consideration to giving our primary industries a greater degree of assistance then we have in the past. 
I have criticised our system of taxation. I still criticise it. I believe we are still overtaxed. Irrespective of the reductions in taxation rates, I still believe that Treasury should have a further look at the matter. I believe that one of the greatest factors contributing to economic stability is an overhaul of the antiquated taxation system in Australia. If we have that overhaul we will have a greater degree of justification for asking the moderate unionist to come to the party and assist us in holding down wages. I believe that the Labor Party must look at itself. I believe that at this time the trade union movement as such has not the confidence in the Labor Party that perhaps it had a few years ago. I believe that the moderate trade unionist is beginning to realise that there are too many extremists in trade unions and that there are too many men who are interested only in themselves and not in the trade union movement as a whole. I think that the Labor Party will have to examine itself and the unions to see what it can do about the situation. 
-What my colleague, the honourable member for Kennedy, says is true. I have said it before, and I repeat it. In our political system we need a strong Opposition. 
I want to make some comments about two departments within our government. One comment relates to repatriation and the other to immigration. I think it is a tragedy that there has to be a newspaper headline in many instances before we can get a common-sense approach to a policy matter in the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. The Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  knows my opinion of and some of my thoughts on the Department. I do not criticise any individual in the Department. I have received the utmost courtesy and the utmost assistance from those in the Department. At times a certain amount of logic and common sense should be used in an answer rather than a strict criterion put forward in administration. I know of individual cases in which people should have been allowed to enter this country but have found it difficult to do so. I also refer to the cases we have read about in our newspapers. If it is necessary for a headline to appear to achieve a result which shows some compassion, of course the headline is valuable. Why should the matter have to go to that degree before we get a common-sense and compassionate answer? 
The other comment I make is that I hope that very soon consideration will be given to the portfolio of Veterans' Affairs. It is unfortunate that the portfolio, with all its importance- it is fraught with Australian history- appears to have been tacked on to another portfolio. I am not in any way criticising the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Mr Garland).  He also has an important portfolio which relates to the European Economic Community. I will have something to say about that later. 
As my friend and colleague the honourable member for Patterson says, the RSL clubs are not happy about it. Why should they be? We have said repeatedly that we will look after the men who defended this country. I do not say that we will not look after them. It appears that we are tacking this portfolio onto the tail end of a portfolio which is important in another sphere. I think that members of the Returned Services League and other people are justified in criticising the Government for the attitude it has adopted and in tacking this portfolio onto another one. I hope that in a very short space of time that position will be altered. 
I will make one comment about the rural community. I want to link it with my comments on the European Economic Community. The Governor-General in his Speech said: 
My Government believes that it is of vital importance to Australia's interests that its rural community be strong and viable. 
I hope that they are not mere words and that this Government will make that phrase effective. Too many times we have heard in this House about the importance of rural production, the importance of the primary producer and his contribution to the economic stability of this country. I am afraid that those words have not been of great benefit to the people in primary industries. We have done much for them, but there is a lot more to do. I am not optimistic about the Australian Rural Bank. I hope that it will prove a darn sight more effective than the Commonwealth Development Bank of Australia which was the idea and baby of the late  Sir Arthur 
Fadden and which was almost destroyed. All the ideas and thoughts that  Sir Arthur  Fadden had about that bank were almost lost in the limbo of the lost. I hope that the same thing does not happen with the Rural Bank. I hope we get something which is effective. 
A comment was made recently that the motor industry was in trouble. How much should be given to the motor industry? I say to secondary industry- I have said this a number of times here- that I am not against assistance being given to an efficient secondary industry. I have said it before, and I repeat it. Do not ask me to ask my people to make the contribution on their own to the assistance that is given to secondary industry. That is literally what has been asked of them for so many years. I sincerely hope that we will have effective legislation and measures to help them. 
This brings me to the European Economic. Community. I made a brief comment on it when I spoke about the importance of Australia in world affairs. I said that a number of years ago in Malaysia I battled against Britain's entering the European Economic Community. I said then that it was the worst thing that Britain could have done for itself, for Europe and for the rest of the Commonwealth. I believe that the stupidity of the European Economic Community will destroy Europe itself unless some of the present leaders in the European Community wake up to the reality of the situation. I believe that they are destroying themselves. Their economic policies and their rural policies have no sense and no future. I believe this is one of the things that the Minister for Special Trade Representations  (Mr Garland)  will have to put before the EEC with a great deal of force and effort. 
I am delighted that the United States appears to be having some second thoughts on the matter and is gaining some common sense. The United States is putting a little pressure on the Europeans to get some sense in this matter. We have responsibilities in Australia. We also have problems in our domestic and international life. But I believe that, given the same capacity that this country has shown on many occasions, the same ability on the part of the people today as was shown by the early pioneers, this country will attain the future that it can and that it will be able to make a valuable contribution not only in the domestic sphere but also in world affairs. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Transport. Is the Minister aware of comments made yesterday by the Minister for Transport in New South Wales,  Mr Cox,  that the Federal Government was to blame for road funding difficulties in New South Wales and in particular for the New South Wales Government's failure to provide assistance for cane roads in northern New South Wales? Will the Minister inform the House of the extent of the assistance provided to New South Wales for roads this year and, in particular, whether the Commonwealth has provided increased funds for rural roads? 
I support strongly the remarks made by the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr 0 'Keefe).  There are bridges and roads in the areas to which he referred. These also have to be supported by the ratepayers, and the ratepayers are the farmers. It is necessary that grants should be made and that social security payments should be made until those people in the affected areas are able to draw an income. That is one of the matters which I believe we have to face. Unfortunately one of the New South Wales State Ministers said that one particular area, the Manning, cannot be gazetted as a disaster area. If it is not a disaster area, I would hate to see one, because in such an area there would be no one left at all. I believe that in view of the serious circumstances pertaining not only in the electorates of Paterson and Lyne but also in other electorates in the total area of coastal New South Wales there is a need for a reappraisal of the attitude taken in relation to assistance being given to those people because they have been set back so many times as a result of floods. I believe that the Government has a responsibility to look at the situation in a way that it has never been looked at before. 
-As a member of this House and as a minister of the Presbyterian Church of Australia, I regard it a privilege to support the motion which has been moved by the Right Honourable the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  Much has been said of  Sir Robert  Gordon Menzies, and much has been written about the contribution that he made to the political and national life of this country and to the international field. I believe two factors above all others should be emphasised: Firstly, his absolute integrity which has never been questioned and has always been an example to new members of this Parliament; and, secondly, his vision for Australia and all sections of the people. We all recall so well the words that I think can truthfully be applied to him: 'He walked with kings yet kept the common touch '. 
The great strength and the inner power which came from the support of Dame Pattie Menzies and the home influence are examples to all of us in this day and generation. We watched that lovely person as she entered the church, sad and yet so serene, with proud memories of the achievement of her partner. From that I believe we all realised that here was part of the strength of the man whom we honoured on that day. All these things were bound up in the certainty of a great reformed faith which set the foundations for community responsibility and service to the people. Much has been said and I do not want to labour the point but I pay a tribute to a friend, a colleague and a true son of Australia. I join with others in sending condolences and prayers to Dame Pattie and her family at a time when they must be proud of the one whom they loved and who served this country. 
I want to say just a few words on this legislation at the Committee stage and perhaps more importantly to explain the reason why I voted against the second reading of the Bill and in favour of the amendment moved by the Opposition to what appears to be legislation that would be favourable towards rural industries and the primary producers of this country. I did so for two reasons. Firstly, I have always argued that there is no necessity to establish such an institution and that this legislation sets up only another monolithic institution. I believe that the Commonwealth Development 
Bank could have had its charter extended and that it would have been able to cover everything that it is intended that the Primary Industry Bank should cover. If honourable members look at clauses 1 to 7 they will find justification for the opinion which I am now expressing. 
Secondly, I am also a little disturbed about some of the factors relating to the administration of this new Bank. I fear that it will become only another banking institution and will not do the job that it is supposed to do, that is, to help people in primary industries. The Committee will recall that on a number of occasions I have criticised the Development Bank because of its lack of capacity really to assist where the need is for the man on the land and the men in country areas. That is why I supported the Opposition's amendment. I do not oppose the principles of the Primary Industry Bank, but I fear that it will not fulfil its purpose. Unless there is a broader and more sympathetic approach by those in control perhaps there will be the same frustration with this organisation as there is with the Commonwealth Development Bank. As I have said, I do not know why we were not able to extend the charter of the Development Bank to use State instrumentalities which are already established and which are doing great work. 
I hope that this Bank will be effective. As I have said, if one studies clauses 1 to 7 I do not think one is greatly encouraged, but I hope the Bank will fulfil the desires and the hopes of people in primary industry because at this stage they need all the assistance and help it is possible to give them. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clause 8 (Commonwealth may provide funds for Bank). 
My question is directed to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. Recently the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs advertised in the Press for commissioners for the Industries Assistance Commission, the first occasion on which such a thing has happened. Intending applicants had less than two weeks from the time of the first advertisement in which to submit their names for consideration. I ask the Minister: What is the position concerning the present six commissioners whose terms are due to expire later this year? Are they eligible for reappointment- as the advertisement in respect of the new commissioners indicates- and will their names and experience be considered automatically, or should they formally apply for reappointment? Have the existing commissioners been informed of the situation? 
Will the Minister for Health ensure that if health insurance funds make an application for increases in premiums for medical insurance the estimated 46c a week family reduction is passed on to the contributor? Is it likely that some funds may have to increase premiums for health insurance notwithstanding the 10 per cent reduction of medical benefits payable? 
I want to know whether the attention of the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  has been drawn to the situation in Zambia a couple of weeks ago. I think that it proves the point that some of us have been trying to make for a long time. I do not want to attempt to justify the rights or wrongs of the Rhodesian situation. With the greatest stretch of imagination I do not think it could be said that the white farmers in Zambia were a threat to Nkomo, Mugabe, or any of the terrorists and guerrilla boys who have been trying to put on pressure in Rhodesia and who have been successful in making some of the craven politicians in the United Kingdom such as David Owen and Callahan bow down to the very things that they are trying to enforce. 
I would like the Minister for Foreign Affairs to look at what has happened. White farmers in Zambia have been abducted and murdered by these terrorists. This in no way advances their cause in Rhodesia. This proves what many of us have been saying that the terrorists and guerrillas are interested only in their particular grab for power. They are not interested in the black people nor in any people in Rhodesia. There may be some criticism of Smith and the things he has done or failed to do. Every time Smith has made a concession and every time his colleagues have made a concession these people have demanded more and more. The whole situation in Rhodesia has to be looked at from this point of view. I think it is a blot on our own thinking as well as that of the United States and the United Kingdom that the situation has been allowed to deteriorate to such a point that the tragedy of the shooting down of a Viscount was allowed to pass with no protest from anyone in the United Kingdom, the United States or anywhere else. It was disgraceful how the foreign affairs Minister in the United Kingdom literally passed this incident off by saying that this sort of thing was always likely to happen. If 10 or IS years ago someone had said to me that a foreign affairs Minister in the United Kingdom would have said anything like that I would not have believed him. 
I commend to some people a sermon preached by the Dean of Salisbury at a memorial service for those people killed in that crash which he called 'the deafening silence'. If everybody would read that sermon they would have a true concept of the tragedy in Rhodesia today. There would be a greater effort by countries in the Western world to try to find a solution. Quite frankly, what has been done by Nkomo and Mugabe proves that they are not interested in the blacks in Rhodesia or the welfare of the people in Rhodesia. They are interested only in their own grab for power. The sanctimonious hypocrisy of the World Council of Churches has been shown completely and absolutely by the action of the Salvation Army. I congratulate that organisation on the action it has taken. I believe that we must re-examine the situation not only in relation to what is happening to the people in Rhodesia but also in relation to the whole of southern Africa. If we allow this situation to pass the future of this country and its younger people will be threatened at some stage. 
-by leave-I present the report of the Australian branch delegation to the 24th Commonwealth Parliamentary Conference held in Jamaica in September to October 1978. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I seek leave to make a short statement in connection with the report. 
Leave granted. 
I have great pleasure in making a short statement in relation to the report that I have just presented. I do not intend to cover the matters that have been referred to in my report and the subjects that were discussed at the Conference because I hope that honourable members will read the subject matter of the debates and the report. I believe that this is a very important report and that the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association is a very important Association. Sometimes we take this Association for granted. I know that there are occasions on which people outside the Parliament look upon the trips which it organises as junkets for members to go away and enjoy themselves. We did enjoy ourselves. It was a most pleasant time and Conference. I believe that these are vital conferences and that they are of vital importance not only to Australia and the Commonwealth but also to the rest of the world. I believe, quite frankly, that the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association is even more important than the United Nations. 
The debates that we had, the discussions that were held, the meetings that we had together and the time that we spent prior to the Conference, in travelling around Jamaica, were important because we in the Australian delegation were able to present Australia's point of view, we were able to have discussions with representatives of other countries and we were, I believe, able to get a greater understanding and appreciation of other countries. All the members of the Australian delegation, particularly those from this Commonwealth Parliament, contributed to the Conference and to the success of the Conference. 
There is one thing that I want to say in regard to the membership and what is said by members at these conferences. I believe, for many reasons- not the least being the fact that they are Commonwealth Parliamentary Association conferences- that representatives go there as members of a government or of an opposition, but, I believe, more importantly as parliamentarians. At the conferences members put their particular and personal point of view. I believe that they are entitled to do that. I believe that that is important. I mentioned another matter last night in the adjournment debate. 
One of the ways that we will overcome and solve some of the problems that confront Australia and the world is by being completely and absolutely honest one with another. On this trip, after the Conference I spent some time in Nairobi and Kenya; I spent time in Salisbury in Rhodesia; I also spent time in many other countries. I have a great affection for the people of Kenya and for the people of Sierra Leone- two countries in Africa with which I have had a particularly close association. I believe that these people will respect us when we are honest with them, and when, in putting our point of view, we put it strongly and do not agree with them merely for the sake of agreeing with them. I believe that particularly the people of many of the countries in Africa appreciate you if you do put your point of view, even it if is contrary to theirs. Unless we do this, I think all of these conferences and all of these associations will be just farcical. That is one of the reasons why I believe that our Commonwealth Parliamentary Association is of even greater importance to the world at this particular stage than is the United Nations. 
At these conferences there are people with one basic principle. We may have many and varied ideas and many and varied thoughts on subjects, but we have one basic principle- the rights of the individual. As I say, that is important. That is why I have very much pleasure in presenting this report, in making these few remarks in relation to it, and in saying that it was my privilege and pleasure to be the leader of this delegation. I express my personal thanks and appreciation to the members who accompanied me to the Conference. At the Conference there were members of the Opposition as well as members of the Government parties. We did not always agree, but I believe that we had one thing in common, namely, a desire to promote the interests of Parliament and to promote the interests of the standards and ethics of our parliamentary system. 
I said at the time that I regretted the fact that we did not have any members from Kenya attending the Conference, unfortunately, due to the passing of Jomo Kenyatta, their President. I acknowledge the contribution that he made to Kenya and to the Commonwealth. I believe that under the presidency of its new leader, President Moi, that country will go forward and will continue to make a contribution not only to Africa but also to the Commonwealth and so to the world. It is my pleasure to present and support this report, and to ask honourable members to give it consideration and also to have a realisation of the value that these conferences have, not only to Australia but also to the rest of the world. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Transport. I appreciate that this matter has been considered previously, but I again ask the Minister whether he will give further consideration to dividing his Department into the Department of Transport and the Department of Civil Aviation, as I believe that the advantages in such an action would far outweigh any disadvantages. 
-The Minister for Primary Industry will recall that exports of Australian oysters were banned last year following an outbreak of food poisoning. I am sure that he also is aware of the fact that no oysters in the area covered by my electorate were ever contaminated. Can the Minister advise me when exports will be resumed? 
I rise with a certain feeling of regret to speak on the subject matter before the House. In the 27 years that I have been a member of this House I have endeavoured not to be parsonical. I hope that I have avoided the mistakes that sometimes have been made, but because of that factor there are one or two things I must say this evening in this debate. I confess that in the early stages it was my intention not to vote on any of the amendments or on the motion that has been moved. However, the honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Thomson)  is a reasonably persuasive person and we had a discussion about this matter. Perhaps there is an element of capacity in the amendment that has been moved and that could be regarded as a joining together of two other amendments. The obvious difficulty facing the House is the degree of uncertainty, and I believe that the confusion and uncertainty have been indicated by the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher)  on the many occasions on which he has contradicted himself in the various debates and interviews he has had on radio and television and in the newspapers. One of the tragedies of this debate was the demonstration that occurred outside this House today. Heaven knows, this nation is divided enough, and it is a tragedy that it should be divided unnecessarily. 
What will the original motion achieve? It will achieve nothing. I know that opinions can be quoted from various speakers, newspapers and leading churchmen to support one argument against another. However, an editorial in the  Canberra Times  stated: 

 Mr Lusher's motion, as it stands, is a device to achieve a goal it does not state. On that ground alone it deserves to be defeated in its present form. 
I appreciate that various opinions can be quoted to support one argument against another, and in that respect I accept that the statement made recently by Cardinal  Sir James  Freeman, the Catholic Archbishop of Sydney- I have had a long association with both  Sir James  and his predecessor, the late Cardinal  Sir Norman  Gilroy- could be used to support the other side. However, the Right Reverend John Hazlewood, the Bishop of Ballarat and a very eminent authority for whom I have a tremendous respect, has said: 
I personally abominate the whole concept of abortion. 
The motion is setting a very dangerous precedent. 
That is something that we have to consider. It is about time we searched our consciences and looked at something that is not negative. It is time we looked at some of the positive things we might be able to do. One thing that perturbs me is that this motion would bring about economic discrimination against a person who in the normal course of events could not afford to have the treatment. I remember that a professor at the Presbyterian theological college that I attended said many years ago that one of the greatest values in the Catholic Church is the confessional, and I think that we should all ponder on those words. When we talk about the number of people who have abortions, perhaps the church should ask itself why those people have abortions rather than discus their problems with the clergy of the many denominations. Have we fallen down on the job of letting people know that we are a group of individuals with whom they can talk over a problem? 
One of the dangers of this motion, and perhaps one of the dangers of the discussion in this Parliament, is that we are stressing the negative side of the issue. We are not encouraging people to come and talk over their troubles, difficulties and problems. One has to understand the emotions of a woman in this situation. Only the other day I was told of a case involving a 16- year-old lass who suddenly was faced with this problem. She said to the person to whom she went to discuss it: 'What do I do?' Surely we should all be looking at it in that light rather than saying that we should not do this or we should not do that. I do not suppose that anybody in this House opposes abortion more than I do, but after listening to the debate that has taken place today I have a little sympathy for the view put by the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins).  I congratulate him on his speech which contained a tremendous amount of thought, as have some of the other speeches made today. There has been a negative approach to this question. I believe that we should think in terms of more positive solutions, and some have been mentioned by previous speakers. A greater amount of money should be spent on counselling and there should be a greater opportunity for those who find themselves in this predicament to seek a solution other than that of having an abortion. The fact remains that in this country at the moment those who are waiting to adopt children, those who want children, are being told that they will have to wait for a great length of time. It seems to me that in a country which has made such wonderful technological advances, in which we have progress and development, it is rather strange that we cannot find a solution to the problem confronting people in this situation and at the same time provide an opportunity for the children they do not want to have love and care and a normal family life. 
I do not discount any of the speeches that have been made today; nor do I discount the sincerity of the thoughts that have been put forward on this subject. I think that not only within this House but also outside it we should think a little of the positive things that we can and must do if we are to progress as a nation, rather than think of the negative things which have been discussed so often in relation to this legislation. 
-I had the privilege of being presented to His late Majesty on a recent visit to Malaysia. I would just like to add my words to those already stated in this House. His courtesy and his kindness were a by-word. His wisdom and his statemanship were of tremendous value to Malaysia. The loss will be a great one to that country at this moment, but I believe that wisdom and advice which he tendered during his term of office will add to the progress of that country and the respect in which he was held will add to the stature of Malaysia in this area. As I say, I join briefly but sincerely with the remarks that have already been made. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It relates to the forthcoming elections in Rhodesia. Can the Minister give me and the House any information regarding the sending of observers to Rhodesia from this country? 
I endorse the messages and comments that have been made this afternoon in regard to the late  Sir Charles  Adermann. I have been a member of the National Country Party for a considerable time and had an association with  Sir Charles  in many ways. I am aware of the contribution that he made and the character that he showed to all of us. It is only eight or nine days ago that honourable members in this House joined in messages of condolence to another member of this Parliament who at the time of his death was a serving member. It is as well that we remind ourselves of the words of Cardinal  Sir James  Freeman at the service conducted for the late Frank Stewart. He said: 'Courage and integrity are virtues that are not to be despised.' Courage and virtue are also words that can be used to describe the late  Sir Charles  Adermann. In these days when perhaps democracy and our parliaments are under threat from many quarters in the world we should remind ourselves and our nation that there are men of character and virtue who have shown courage and integrity in this Parliament. 
It has been said that he was a man of high principle. My leader, the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony),  said that when  Sir Charles  had a conviction he stuck to it. I can remember  Sir Charles  making a speech in this House in which he was critical of something that the then Government had done. I was a little frightened on that occasion that some furniture would have to be replaced as he emphasised in more ways than one his feeling against the action of that Government. He was then, of course, a very prominent person in my party and the then Government. I can remember his saying: 'If the Government does this sort of thing again I will have to consider my position'. These are the things that reveal him as a man of purpose, a man of courage, a man of integrity and a man of tremendous value not only to his party and to the Parliament but also to the country. 
I saw him also at two conferences of the party in Queensland. Again he was a guiding figure.  His  wisdom and advice were obvious to all. I believe not only that we should join together in support of the motion of condolence that has been moved in this place this afternoon and express our sympathy to Lady Adermann and the family of the late  Sir Charles  Adermann but also that we should remind ourselves that it is our privilege and our responsibility to serve in the same manner and, I would hope, with the same high standard. 
by leave- I promised the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  that I would not delay the House for long. I will keep that promise. But I feel that I would like to comment on the report that has been presented because of my close and long association with Zimbabwe-Rhodesia which goes back to 1941.I congratulate my colleagues. I think that this report is an excellent effort. The Parliament of Australia has been represented, and I think that we ought to emphasise that fact. As such, this report is an illustration of the fact that there is unity within this place for progress and development to take place in some areas and for all honourable members to obtain a knowledge and understanding of what happens in other countries. I think that the three honourable members are to be congratulated on the report that they have presented and for the work they have done. 
I do not think there is any doubt that Prime Minister Muzorewa has done a great deal in that country. On numerous occasions he has tried to come to an agreement with the Patriotic Front. I think that that should be realised. I do not want to go into the political aspects of the matter. But I have found at the conferences that I have attended and at the meetings of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association, that when we are discussing matters in African countries and with other member countries of the Commonwealth, if we are honest and if we put forward our point of view without hesitation and in a way which shows that we desire to work with the cooperation of the Commonwealth, those African countries respect us. I do not think that they respect us when we try to cover up and run away from a situation or a problem. I conclude by saying that the report contains a great deal of food for thought. It is a well thought out and well presented report. Again I congratulate my three colleagues in its compilation and on the work that they have done. 
I and many other members of this House certainly support reform and moves to improve the way in which we conduct the business of this House. Having been a member of the House of Representatives Standing Orders Committee over some period, I have some doubts about the proposals that have been put forward. The only way in which they can be resolved is by having discussion on them. I think that the suggestion that has been made is a particularly good one. I know that there has been a great deal of discussion on them so far. I think the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  would be the happiest man in Australia if we were able to work out a way in which to get the business through more quickly than we have done in the past so that such pressures would not be put on him at different times. 
Many doubts arise in my mind. One of the things that I have in mind in particular is the matter of streamlining the conduct of business so that we can still carry on without duplication. The honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  asked what legislation would be debated in the House while the committees were meeting. He also asked what opportunity members of this House who were not members of the committees would have to make some comment on the Estimates at a later stage without the danger of duplication arising. There are many such questions. As the Leader of the House knows, I made one suggestion in relation to the Budget debate. I believe that circumstances have developed to the point where the Budget debate in this House could commence on the Wednesday evening following the presentation of the Budget by the Treasurer. I do not think that there is any necessity to delay the debate for one full week. It appears to me that in the current situation the only people who do not talk about the Budget in the week following its presentation are the members of this Parliament. A great deal of discussion has taken place in recent months about the place of the Executive and the place of the back bench member. These are things that we have to safeguard. I am not quite sure that they will be safeguarded by the proposals that have been put forward. I believe that this matter is something that the Parliament can refer  to the  Standing Orders Committee, if you  Mr Speaker,  are successful in getting it together to meet. Given the experience of that Committee and the knowledge of its members, I believe that something will come from that, I support the suggestion that has been put forward. 
-I give notice that at the next sitting I shall move: 
That in the opinion of this House legislation relating to Telecom Australia and Australia Post should be amended to provide the Minister and the Parliament with a larger role in the operation of those authorities. 
I hope that because of the urgency of the situation the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  will give us an early opportunity to debate that matter. 
I want to say something about these Estimates and, in particular, I want to say something about the Parliament. I agree with some of the things that have been said by the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  but not, perhaps, for the reasons that he has given. I have been rather perturbed about the Parliament for some time because I believe that it has lacked something that it had a number of years ago. I must confess quite sincerely that I do not think that the Estimates committees will be the answer. If what happened at 8 o'clock this evening is any example then I think that it is sufficient evidence that the committee system will not work as some people thought it might. I have never seen such an episode- a Budget being put through the House with nobody really knowing what was happening, with the Opposition not even knowing what was to be brought before the House. If I am correct- if I am not I will apologise- the Leader of the House  (Mr Viner)  was not even in the House. I have not spoken on the Budget. I have been waiting to see something appear on one of the speakers' lists to say that  Mr Lucock  was going to speak. 
It may not be very important but at least one of the things I want to register in the Parliament is the fact that a member in this House is a representative of an electorate. This House is the place in which that representation must be presented. Honourable members do not want to go into back rooms and talk about matters that concern them. This is the place to say what they want to say and this is the place to debate it. If the Executive- I have been critical of the Executive- is not doing its job then it is the party members' job to tell the Executive so. The Parliament is the institution of democracy in every sense of the word. We can have committees that discuss things at different times and committees which can question departments and Ministers. I say candidly that in the last few days these committees have been a farce. They have been meeting while the Parliament has been sitting. Members have run down to the committee rooms and then they have come back to the Parliament. They have never been quite sure what has been going on. I think that this House and the country have to look at what is happening to the parliamentary system in Australia. It started with the change of government when the GovernorGeneral took certain action. I will not say very much about that at the moment because it has happened and it is in the past. But let us remember one thing; it happened because of the action of a State government over the death of a senator. I think that perhaps that is something all of us must ask ourselves about and look at. 
Something else has happened in this House that is very bad. I have given notice of a motion I propose to move. Heaven knows when it will come before the House. The Executive will make that decision. The notice of motion concerns the Department of Post and Telecommunications. It relates to Telecom Australia and Australia Post. I gave that notice of motion because I believe that public servants and the bureaucracy are running this Department to the detriment of the progress and development of this country. They are ignoring anything that honourable members say. Not so very long ago, a group of people said that they would go to their member of parliament to get something done about the Postmaster-General's Department as it was in those days. A person in the bureaucracy said to them: 'There is no higher authority; my decision is final.' I give credit to the present Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley).  He is trying to do something but he is handicapped because the legislation restricts him. In my candid opinion it gives too much authority to the bureaucracy. 
Last year, when I was in New York I said to Rupert Murdoch: 'I am worried about the Australian political situation.' I have seen nothing in the last 12 months to change that opinion. I asked a very prominent member of the Australian Labor Party the other day why it was that the Left wing did not want Labor to get into power. In a democracy we at least want an effective Opposition. Every time we see what the Left has done we can almost say that it deliberately seems to be doing everything it can to make it impossible for the Opposition to be effective. I want to say one other thing. It is not a criticism of the  Speaker  but a mere statement about something that concerns me. I will not talk about the subject matter but I refer to a case that concerns a member of this House, the questions that were asked, the debate that was carried on and the discussion that was held in this House. 
In this country we have the sub judice rule. The major reason for the application of the sub judice rule is to enable a person to have a fair trial and to prevent a case being built up against a person without that person having the opportunity to say something in defence of himself. In the instance concerning my colleague the right honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair),  I do not think that has been the case. I have heard some criticism of things that the media did, but if the media had not reported certain things it could have been said that it was covering up. In the circumstances, I believe that the media had to publish reports and comments. I do not think that any criticism should be levelled at the media in that regard. 
I believe that members of this House should consider this matter. In this House questions were asked on the subject, there was discussion of it and certain points of view were put forward. Because of that certain opinions have been formed. No matter how much one tries to dismiss from one's mind the things that have been said, anybody who considers that case or thinks about it must have formed a certain opinion. I ask: Is that something that should be allowed to happen before a person is tried in a court before a judge and jury or whoever will be making the decision? Frankly, that is something at which this House must look and with which it must concern itself. I am a member of the Privileges Committee, as this House would be aware. I believe that this matter must be discussed by the Privileges Committee with  Mr Speaker  to ensure that that sort of thing does not happen again. I am not being critical of anyone about what has happened so far because I believe that, in the circumstances, nothing could be done about it. 
Those are the two matters which I particularly wished to mention in the discussion of these Estimates. As I said at the beginning of my speech, if Estimates committee meetings are to be the way in which the Estimates are considered in the future, I believe that a lot more thought will have to be given to the procedure followed. If one looks at what has been discussed by the Estimates committees one will find that insufficient time has been set aside to enable consideration of the matters in the manner in which they should have been considered, especially if that is to be the only debate and discussion on them. I am frightened that we will get away from the fact that this House is the forum for matters concerning this nation to be discussed. Every individual in Australia has the right to have his member of parliament say something on the noor of this Parliament. That is something that we must never forget and something that we must never give away. It has been said that these Estimates committee meetings are something new and that something new has to be tried for some time before one can find out whether it will be successful and before one can work out ways and means of making it as effective as possible. Honourable members must do everything possible to maintain and sustain this Parliament as the window of that for which we all stand, that is, democracy and the progress of this country. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, is supplementary to the question asked by the honourable member for Kennedy. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the fact that five Sheffield Shield games have been played and not one of them has been televised? Is not this a breach of contract? Will the Minister have a look at the situation to see whether the televising of the cricket can be put back with the Australian Broadcasting Commission so that the public may get a competent and efficient service? 
