
 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. The honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan)  in his speech on the Address-in-Reply indicated that I had made a statement that the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  had not given me any support in my election campaign. To set the record straight, I point out that the honourable member for EdenMonaro is quoting from a news report this morning which was lifted from an interview which appeared on 'Canberra Report' on Sunday evening in which I was quoted out of context. What I said in the interview was that during the pre-selection campaign I received no support from the Leader of the Country Party - which is as it should have been. During the election campaign- itself, as anybody who observed the campaign in Hume would know, I had the complete and full support of the Leader of the Country Party - which also is as it should have been. 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister. I would point out that this is my maiden question, and I feel sure the Prime Minister will do me the courtesy of replying in a thoughtful fashion. I refer to the answer given yesterday to the honourable member for Indi indicating that the Prime Minister would be receptive to a suggestion that the Government should subsidise a commuter service to encourage or preserve employment in towns like Wangaratta. Will the Prime Minister consider the reintroduction of the petrol price equalisation scheme as further realistic assistance to the mobility of labour in country areas? 

 - Mr Speaker, firstly I congratulate you on your re-election to the high office of  Speaker.  I also convey my congratulations to the other new members on their contributions to this House through their maiden speeches- It is a significant honour to have been elected by the people of Hume to be their representative in this Parliament. Hume is a large area covering approximately 13,000 square miles in the south-west of New South Wales. It runs from Blayney in the north to below Batlow in the south,  aDd  from the Australian Capital Territory border to Temora and Junee. I sincerely hope that the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  will refrain from making it any larger than it is at present. Country people have a right to access to their member and they are already at a significant disadvantage when compared with electors in metropolitan electorates. 
Hume is adjacent to the Australian Capital Territory and possesses some of the best country and some of the best towns in Australia. It is the home of that great Australian, Henry Lawson, who was born at Grenfell and is honoured in that district yearly. Grenfell was also the haunt of the great Ben Hall, and the fact that it is the home of two distinguished Country Party men, the honourable member for Calare  (Mr England)  and  Senator Doug  Scott, is not to suggest that they too are bushrangers. 
I extend an invitation to any honourable member who is stranded in Canberra for a weekend to come into Hume and experience the best of what Australia has to offer. I am sure all honourable members have enjoyed a Batlow apple or a glass of Mountain Maid Cider or a cherry from Young, but I wonder how many have driven through the hills and pine forests around Tumut and Batlow as the Prime Minister will do in a few months time, or have been up the magnificent Lachlan Valley from Young to Cowra. How many have fished in Burrinjuck or Wyangala Dam? How many know that the Edgell country garden is in Hume and that most of the steak you eat in the dining room is from the Conkey abattoir in Cootamundra - all the good steaks anyway. I can recommend Hume to any honourable member who is interested in good people, good food and good country and I want to assure Government supporters that there is no truth in the rumour that the dog which sits on the tuckerbox at Gundagai has been trained to bite members of the Labor Party. 
This Parliament has been honoured by the presence of some distinguished former members for Hume,  Mr Arthur  Fuller will be remembered by many. He first came into this place in 1931 for the Labor Party. He won and lost his seat on several occasions and claimed that he made 3 maiden speeches. I hope that does not happen to me.  Colonel Charles  Anderson, V.C., M.C., is enjoying good health and is still living in Hume.  Colonel Anderson  has been a source of .inspiration to me and there would not have been a better Australian ever to serve in this House. Ian Pettitt is still living at Harden in the middle of Hume. He served this Parliament well, particularly on committees, and especially in the areas of social security and Papua New Guinea affairs. He has also been of great assistance to me. My opponent, Frank Olley, the former member, will, I understand, remain active in political circles and I congratulate him on his result. These men all served Hume well and have set me a high standard. I have given my electors an undertaking that I will be serving their interests on a fulltime basis; I will have no other distractions. I hope my representation of the electors of Hume is of a high standard. 
I wish to point out to the House the state of rural unemployment in Australia. The House may be aware that at the end of June 78,827 people were registered as unemployed. The House may not be aware that 43,255 of these were rural unemployed. Almost 55 per cent of the unemployment in Australia today is in the country, not in the cities. The people who live in Hume and in country areas generally want to know what proposals the Minister for Labor and Immigration - or his spokesman in the House, the Deputy Prime Minister - have for alleviating non-metropolitan unemployment. We used to have a system of making money available to local government to provide jobs in the country. I would like to see consideration given to reintroducing rural unemployment relief to equalise employment opportunities in non-metropolitan Australia. 
One of the most significant problems facing the electorate of Hume is the interaction between the electorate and the national capital, Canberra. I listened the other night to my neighbour, the honourable member for EdenMonaro  (Mr Whan),  with some degree of envy. He spoke, the House may recall, of what a wonderful time Eden-Monaro had had under the Labor Government. He referred to it as a 'bonanza' for Eden-Monaro. I can only think that Hume was behind the door when the goodies were 'being handed out. 1 want to take this opportunity of making a strong plea on behalf of Hume and its people for some consideration in this question of over the border growth and the responsibility of the Australian Government in this area. 
There can be no question that the Australian Government must accept a responsibility for the effect the existence of Canberra has on the surrounding area. The Barton Highway must become a Federal responsibility. The road to Tumut must become a reality. Negotiations must be actively pursued with the New South Wales Government to enable the people of Hume to be at no disadvantage because of their proximity to Canberra. Arrangements between the Commonwealth and State Governments must be concluded to allow for the proper planning of the region. If these arrangements are not concluded soon there will be irretrievable harm caused by the pressure of an expanding Canberra on those currently responsible for the administration of this area. Let this Government be aware that there is a western as well as an eastern side to the Australian Capital Territory. 
Another point I wish to draw to the attention of the Government is the extent to which poverty exists in rural areas. One has only to go as far as page 8 of the interim report of the Australian Government's Commission of 
Enquiry into Poverty dated March 1974  -  the Henderson report. There we see that 399,000 family units are very poor, that is, below the poverty line. This represents an average across the nation level of 10.2 per cent of families. But what is the position in rural Australia, excluding farmers. Rural Australia accounts for 142,000 of those 399,000 below the poverty line families. So 14.4 per cent of rural families are below the poverty line compared with the national average of 10.2 per cent. Henderson does not say at what level that leaves the city average. 
A similar situation exists in the other category listed by Henderson - rather poor or less than 20 per cent above the poverty line. In this category the national average is 7.8 per cent and the rural - non-farmer - figure is 10.8 per cent. These figures are significant. I know what the reaction would be if the figures were reversed. If city poverty figures were higher than the national average, massive programs of redistribution of wealth would be instituted. But country people are not treated in like fashion. I call on the Government to act immediately to reduce the high level of poverty in rural Australia - non-metropolitan Australia. 
I would like to record some of my feelings towards the condition of youth in country areas. When I refer to youth I refer to the teenage group, particularly at the middle and younger end of the scale. So many of the towns in Hume have an empty shop which has been filled with pin-ball machines and is full of young people participating in that noble occupation known as hanging round. These kids are just waiting for the day when they will be old enough to go into a pub and switch from coke to beer. It seems to me a tragedy that the future of this country - the young people - are not encouraged to do something more worthwhile than play pin-ball. I would hope that the Australian Assistance Plan or some other agency of this welfare Government would look into this problem which by no means is confined to the country. Perhaps the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  could institute a survey of recreational needs and suggest possible ways of meeting the demand by youth for such facilities. 
I have referred to the attributes of Hume, one of Australia's premier rural areas, with its dozen or so medium size towns. It produces the best fine wool in the world, particularly in the area around Yass; it is one of Australia's richest wheat producing areas and is second to none in terms of beef and lamb production. It is diversified with fruit and vegetables and supports light industries, including pine processing at Tumut and magnesium processing at Young, as well as major railway centres. I mention these points because this is the record of achievement of the people of Hume. They are fine people who have worked hard and who continue to work hard tilling the soil and building their businesses. In doing so they have helped make Australia the rich and prosperous nation it is today. The people of Hume have been fortunate to have had naturally productive soil. But they have not sat back on their inheritance and taken things easy. These people have accepted the challenge of increasing their productivity and getting the most from their soil realising that not to go forward is to go backward. Over the years they have had the incentive to do better and to improve on what they started with. This is the great Australian spirit - the Australian tradition. 
In times of plenty they have re-invested in the soil and bought bigger and better machinery. They have ploughed their money back into Australia and enabled industries in the cities to grow and employ more people, producing and satisfying the needs of these country people. Australia has led the world in the field of agricultural machinery because of the demands and initiatives of country people. 
The people of Hume have contributed handsomely to Australia. They have accepted their responsibility as owners of fertile lands. They deserve the support of Government in adverse times, having established their bona fides as worthwhile Australians and honest workers. We have witnessed under this Labor Administration the most severe and the most unjustified attack that has ever been experienced by the rural sector. Country people, including the people of Hume, are Australians like all other Australians. They are hard working and conscientious, perhaps more so than other groups. They deserve a better deal than what has been served up since December 1972. Like all businesses they need incentive. They need a reason for staying in business. They need and are entitled to a fair return for their labour and a fair margin on their investment. Without this incentive they will not strive to produce and Australia will be the poorer. 
This Government had no right to bring an entire and an important section of the Aus tralian economy to a position where, today, it is on the brink of disaster. This Government should have known that seasonal and economic factors are such that rural industries can move from never so good to never so bad within a space of 12 months. This Government should have seen that the decline had already set in when it started the great rural rip off. The Whitlam Administration will rue the day that it upset the balance in Australia's rural industries. Do the memories not go back only a few years when the last recession nearly bankrupted the country towns, when those towns that depend on a viable rural industry - there are plenty in Hume - were racked with unemployment and closing business houses, when foreign exchange was not being earned? No government can allow an entire sector of the community and the economy go to the wall as a result of that government's actions. If present trends continue and rural industries begin to collapse this Government will be forced to mount a massive rescue operation that will cost more than what is being ripped off under the Coombs manifesto. Australia will continue to need a viable rural industry into the foreseeable future and it will need people like those in Hume to operate it and to work in the towns. I make this plea on the occasion of my maiden speech. Let us unite Australia as one powerful productive force, as one great and undivided people, as a country ready and able to assume its responsibilities in a difficult world. Finally, I would like to let the Government know that I am here to represent the people of Hume and I will attempt to do that to the best of my ability. 
I wish to thank the electors of Hume for expressing their confidence and trust in me and I pledge myself to honour that confidence and trust. I commend the amendment to the House. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the considerable concern among apiarists about the importation of leafcutter bees from the United States of America into Australia. 
Is it a fact that the imported leafcutter bees, or some of them, were infected with the non-curable chalkbrood disease. 
) If so, were the infected bees destroyed. 
Were all bees in quarantine destroyed. 
Will the Government prohibit further introduction of these bees. 
What is the Government's attitude regarding the future importation and release of these bees. 
-There are a few things which are important to people who do not live in metropolitan areas. There are a few things which are very important to those people who live in the country. The telephone, the mail and the roads are 3 things which are of particular concern. There is currently a situation in the country where all these 3 services are at the worst possible level in living memory. The Government is introducing the most savage percentage increases in the cost of telephone and mail services in living memory. I do not think that people would mind so much about paying a bit more if they felt they were getting some service. But what is happening in the country areas, particularly in New South Wales, is that services are being withdrawn. We have already seen Saturday mail services go. There is no chance in the world that these services on Saturdays will be restored. 
Cootamundra and Young- major country centres with 7,000 and 8,000 people- are receiving mail from the capital cities twice a week. This is an intolerable situation not only for people in their personal lives but also for businesses and for people who are trying to give some sort of service to the community. A lot of these reductions in the mail service in country areas have been put down to the problems with the railways, the fact that we have union difficulties, that fuel shortages exist and that we have to cut down on the rail services and therefore the postal services. Travelling post offices have been taken off trains. I understand that the New South Wales railways department had been unhappy for some period of time about the return that it was receiving from letting the Postal Department use the travelling post offices. But this is perhaps another area. The fact is that because travelling post offices are being taken off trains and because trains themselves are not running, country people are being done again. They are losing services and now they are being asked to pay more for that reduction in service. 
A situation seems to be developing where the Postal Department is taking advantage of the New South Wales Public Transport Commission's difficulties in getting the trains running. It seems as though in the same way as the Saturday morning mail service was discontinued, these cuts in rail services are being taken advantage of to reduce other services to the country. I repeat that there is no satisfactory service from the capital cities. This problem cannot all be laid at the feet of the New South Wales railways. I support the railways. I think that the service should be looked at and that there are ways and means by which it should be improved. I know that the Commonwealth is looking at the situation and is seeking involvement in the railway services. We have towns where the railway is responsible for the basic employment. It must be ensured that this service is improved and that we get a continuation of and an increase of passenger and freight services in country areas where the services can be run on a sound economic basis. 
But the Postal Department has to accept the responsibility for getting the mail through. If the railways cannot carry it on a satisfactory basis, then until the services can be restored the Postal Department and the Postmaster-General  (Senator Bishop)  surely have a responsibility to seek other avenues to see that the mail is distributed through the country areas. Why have they not investigated the possibility of using trucks to carry the mail into the country by road? I believe that the unions will not tolerate private enterprise being employed to do this. I believe that if the mail is to go by road it has to go on PMG trucks. But people in the country do not care what sort of trucks it goes on. We do not care if it goes on horseback as long as it gets through. At this stage the mail is not getting through and we are being asked to pay an increase of from 7c to 10c for a service which is getting worse week by week. People will not accept it. There is a savage enough feeling building up in the country areas now without adding to it and without fuelling the fires with actions like this. People are concerned. There is a ground swell of feeling building up. The Government knows about it and yet imposts like this are being savagely hung around the necks of country people. 
The town of Cootamundra has a population including women and children of about 6,500 people. On Friday night 2 weeks ago it was decided to send around a petition to see what could be done about the rail and postal services. By Sunday evening 2,000 people had signed that petition- 2,000 people out of a total population of 6,500 had signed the petition in 2 days over a weekend. This indicates the type of concern that exists in country areas and in smaller communities over the raw deal that is being dished out by government. We have to do something about this. The Government has a responsibility to see that people get their basic and essential services. 
We also have to look at the effect that this situation is having on decentralisation- such decentralisation as exists. The increase in postal rates will do nothing to encourage people or businesses to establish and in some cases it will cause businesses to close down. People who live in the cities and who do not venture out into country areas do not have any understanding of the costs that are incurred in trying to get simple things like spare parts out to the people who need them in the bush. A person in business in the country who needs a spare part for a motor car or a truck has to make three, four or five telephone calls to Sydney or Melbourne. That is a ridiculous state of affairs. Each one of the telephone calls costs $2, $3 or $4. A person in Sydney who requires a spare part can ring up for 5 c or 7c but it costs dollars to make an equivalent phone call from Young, Cowra or Tumut. That cost is bringing country businesses to their knees. That cost is now to be increased by up to 50 per cent. 
We cannot accept a situation like this; it is completely intolerable. The Postal Department and the Government must be seen to be trying to do something about it. I know that the Government has problems. But no effort seems to be made. Suggestions are put up about ways of improving the services. But the Government does not seem to be interested in considering those suggestions. When is something concrete going to be done? When are we going to get a better deal for country people without just asking them to pay more and more through the nose and to get less and less for it. 
A chap from Boorowa wrote to me and pointed out that the railways and the Postal Department had frigged up the mail in that town to such an extent that it comes in about once every 10 days. I do not understand and he does not understand why it is that the mail cannot be put on to a train that will go into a station where it can be delivered to the area. Why is there so much inflexibility? Why does the Postal Department have to keep sending the mail out the same way when the Department realises that it has to be off-loaded and sent back when a train runs? Why cannot they re-route the mail? 
No one seems to be aware of the human and economic problems that are being raised by the savage imposts. There are problems for people who live on the fringes of telephone districts. For them a call two or three miles up the road is a trunk call. It seems that consideration is not being given to rationalising the areas within which one can make a call for the basic charge. The people who live on the fringes of these district like everyone else are issued with a telephone book. The people who live in metropolitan areas are issued with a telephone book which covers all of the telephone numbers which they are likely to ring in the next 5 years. But the telephone book issued to people in fringe areas is not adequate in many cases and it could cut out about 5 miles up the road. These people are not entitled to be issued with the telephone directory for the adjoining area which may be as close as a couple of miles away. If a person wants the telephone book for another district he must go out and buy it. I do not understand why the Government cannot give consideration to these people who have a genuine problem. Many of them have services which are being reduced or are being cut out. But the people in these little areas will not receive any assistance from the Government, assistance which would not cost the Government very much at all. 
We have to bring about a realisation of the problems which these people face. We have to bring the Government to an understanding of the Little people who have to work and slave in country areas. We have to make government aware of the problems. I know that this Government has not been in office for very long and perhaps the situations have not changed much from the time when those on this side of the House were on the other side. But the Government has to take into account the genuine interests of these people. At least we made an effort to take things into consideration. We are now faced with a Government which is allowing industrial unrest to run riot, inflation to accelerate to record levels, and every conceivable economic dislocation to occur, with the consequent increases in costs for basic services which should be available and for the retraction of services in country areas. We cannot just accept the fact that inflation is causing these problems because we have to get back to the underlying causes of that inflation. 
We cannot just sit back and say that this is happening, therefore that has to happen, because it is not good enough and the people will not accept it. Unless the Government wants to aggravate a situation in which people will pick up their scythes and pitchforks and march on cities, it has to be prepared to think more seriously about the problems that these people face. Right at the guts of the problem are the posts and telegraphs, rail, roads and the rest of the essential services which everybody ought to be entitled to as a matter of right and not as a matter of privilege. 
I urge the Government to give consideration to these matters and to these people. The Government is running the country in such a slipshod and mishandled fashion that everyone is feeling it. People out in the country feel it twice as badly. If commodities are short they are twice as short in the bush. We have to see that country people get a reasonable go. No one wants to see them get any more than that. They do not expect to get more than that. They elect their representatives to this place in the same way as do city people. It is those representatives who come down here who will continue to call for a fair deal for those people. 
I want to conclude on that note. The Government ought to see that a department like the Postmaster-General's Department or the proposed corporation is seen to be making that effort because if it is not seen to be making that effort the Government will continue to generate justifiable unrest and disquiet in country areas and no one, particularly country people, want to see that sort of situation exacerbated. 
I welcome the Government's recognition of the problems that are facing the wool industry today. We are talking about a $ 1,000m industry. It is still Australia's greatest export earner and it still involves a very significant portion of the Australian population. It is beset with all sorts of problems. It has the problem of low prices and rising costs, the classic squeeze situation. It should be made clear that the Government is not really committing itself to any great deal of support for this great industry. It is not committing itself to any expenditure of taxpayers' funds. This money is being made available on a loan basis and the funds will attract interest at something around the current levels. I will come back to the question of interest a little later. It is sufficient to say at this stage that no taxpayers' funds are going to be wasted as has been suggested by many different sources in recent weeks. The industry will in fact have a 5 per cent levy placed on it which will amount to $47m this year. This is a significant sum of money. It is this levy which will in fact absorb any losses which may be incurred. It is a levy on the growers and the growers themselves will have to foot the bill for any losses that may be sustained by the support operation. 
There is no question that the $150m is welcome but it must be seen in its true context. The industry would have been more than happy to have borrowed this money commercially but the way things worked out it is a government provided sum of money. It is interesting, I think, to look back on the banks' attitude to the proposal that they should in fact provide the money and guarantees for this operation. The banks were prepared to do this as long as the Reserve Bank was prepared to allow them to have access to statutory reserve deposits. If the bank had been a little more flexible in its approach to the liquidity situation, this may have been achieved. The Reserve Bank itself could have made funds available perhaps at more attractive interest rates than may now be the case, through the rural credits department. The word that has been floating around is that whatever decision might have been made by the banks in deciding whether they were going to support this particular project was going to be, in fact, overruled by a government decision which had been taken earlier, that the funds would be provided by the Government in this particular case. I do not know whether there is any politics behind that decision. I do not know whether the Government thinks it can gain some political points because the Government itself is providing those funds. 
It can now be said that the Government has made a commitment and that the industry cannot say that the Government was not responsible for providing this money. I support the Government. I support the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  and the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson)  for in fact coming to the aid of the industry. I sincerely hope that at some later stage we are not put in a position where politics are brought into this situation and the industry is held up to ransom. I hope we are not put in an invidious position simply because the Government itself provided the funds in this situation. This is, I think, very important in the light of the amendments which have been moved by the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  because the industry wants to get itself on to a commercial and a viable basis. The industry wants to be able to borrow and to be responsible for its own funds. The industry wants to be able to be free of political manoeuvrings, if that is going to be at all possible. 
I think the point was made earlier that the Government's policy of providing funds was potentially dangerous. I think it was pointed out by the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan)  that the wool industry would be fairly happy to be dealing with the Government in this situation. I do not think I am misquoting him. But I think that the position is rather the reverse. I think the industry would rather be dealing with the banking system than with the Government because the Government and the finances that are involved in government are so terribly subject to the whims of budgeting. With funds that are as important as these, a degree of certainty is attached to commercial borrowing which is not attached to governmental borrowings. The industry does not want to be in debt to the Government. If it is at all possible, the industry wants to be on its own sound economic footing. 
We have heard a lot said tonight about the figure of 250c clean per kilogram. I think this concerns an important point and the position is worth canvassing further because it is this particular figure which is being bandied around as being the great offer and the great floor support scheme price level for this industry. It has been demonstrated earlier tonight that this figure is equivalent only to the 36c which was made available under previous governments when one takes into account inflation. Charts are available to demonstrate the correctness of this figure. Everybody knows the figures that relate to earlier wool marketing exercises and people know just how much the price of wool has moved. It is sufficient to say that this particular price which is, in money terms, really only equivalent to what people were getting 3 or 4 years ago, is not anything to be put on a pedestal as representing a wonderful situation and a very magnanimous gesture on behalf of this Government. It was the immediate required figure which, in the circumstances, the Government could get away with. What other industry would be prepared to accept a price level which virtually has applied as an average over the last 10 to 15 years if we iron out the fluctuations that have occurred over that time? 
There has been no significant growth in the price of wool as it is received by the growers. It is pretty much the same price which is being dealt out year by year and the costs are rising at astronomical rates. In this particular year, it would seem that the award rates for shearing are being pushed through the roof. Contractors are now quoting $1.20 a head to shear in a reasonably sized shed, which involves classers and cooks. What is the effect in money terms to the grower of the price level which was set by the Government when it established this support scheme? In round figures it works out at a little less than $5 a head per sheep in the hands of the grower. The grower has an immediate payout of $ 1.20 a head for shearing costs. He has to pay a 5 per cent levy as his contribution to this support scheme in order to help cover any losses that may be incurred. I think he has a 4.7 per cent promotion levy which also is taken from the gross profit.  His  commission is something like 3.5 to 3.75 per cent. The grower has all sorts of other costs, such as transport charges which have to be taken into account. The net return in the hands of the wool grower is getting smaller at a time when the squeeze is probably as great as it has ever been in the history of this particular industry. 
It is to be regretted that wool has, through the vagaries of the market, been put into a position where it is almost on its knees. I think that everyone wants as soon as practicable- as soon as world markets and seasonal conditions will allow- to see wool growers return to the honourable position which they have occupied in this great industry and the economy for so many decades- in fact, going back to the original days of settlement of this country. It is wool that got Australia off the ground, as was pointed out by our guest from Iran,  His  Majesty the Shah, at lunch today. 
I should like to examine the question of the levy, how it is to be administered and what the charges will be. I think it is very important that we understand just what the Government intends to do with the levy. The levy will raise about $47m and it is from that money that losses will be recouped, if losses are in fact incurred. We have to examine also the interest rates which are being charged on the $150m or that portion of it which might be drawn and the relationship between the interest payment and the grower levy of 5 per cent which will raise the sum of $47m. If we look at an interest rate of 12 per cent or 1 4 per cent and relate it to an amount of $80m or $100m which might be drawn at a particular stage, it becomes apparent that the interest burden that will accrue on those borrowings will be something in the order of $ 10m, and that $10m in itself is a significant amount. We have to be certain in our minds as to just how this $ 10m will be treated. Will the interest be calculated among the losses and therefore be a direct charge against the growers' 5 per cent levy? If, as in the instance I gave, the interest amounts to $10m does that mean that growers will have only $3 7m with which to meet the losses that may be incurred? Or will the interest be a general charge against the operations of the Australian Wool Corporation and not specifically accounted for as a loss? 
I think that in any case it is important that the Corporation should continue to take into account the fact that interest will be accruing and that this should be a factor in the Commission setting the levels at which it is prepared to dispose of wool in the event of an increase in the market because the interest factor will continue to be a more than significant feature of the whole of the operations of this support scheme and of the position of growers as they organise themselves to meet the costs of running the scheme. 
We also have to take particular note when considering the series of Bills before us of the promotion levy because this levy has now been taken away from the position of operating on a dollar for dollar basis and has been put into the category of being supported more by the industry than by the Government. I think it is most important that we continue to see that promotion and research are continued and that the International Wool Secretariat continues to carry out its operations. We have to make sure that new markets are continued to be found and that we develop new variations on the theme around wool. Mention has been made in this debate of the importance of such things as machine washability for woollen products, the processes designed for permanent creasing of woollen products, and the fact that we have now better processes for dying and colouring garments and fabrics. All of these processes have been great breakthroughs in the history of wool. We have to see that we do not sit back and rest on our laurels and on the past breakthroughs by the scientists and the researchers which have been applied by those in the marketing side of this great industry. It is important that research continues because if it does not wool as a major fibre will be overcome and passed by synthetics. We will find that synthetics will come back to a position of being far and away ahead of wool and far and away more attractive in the competition which develops amongst fibres for a place on our backs and around our legs. 
We have to see that the Government continues to support the industry on as fair a basis as is possible through this promotion levy. I think that we have to understand that the growers are prepared to take upon their shoulders the future of their industry insofar as they are able to do so. The growers realise that if there is to be any future for themselves and for the industry, the industry will have to continue to find new markets and new techniques. It will have to find new uses for wool. But more than anything else the industry will have to keep wool in the forefront of the world apparel market. The operations of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation and the other research bodies and of the Secretariat will ensure that this is continued. 
I feel sure that the Government is not going to renege on its contribution. I think it is important that we see that the industry is not required to accept an unfair burden in this respect. As I mentioned earlier the charges against the wool clip are getting larger year by year. Commissions are not going down, the costs of freight are not going down, the costs of promotion and research are not going down and we are now finding ourselves in a situation where new impositions such as the levy to support the price of 250c clean are being imposed on the industry. 
The amendment which has been moved by the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  who is the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party, in my opinion has considerable merit and I hope that the Government will give serious consideration to adopting it. It is in the interests not only of the industry but of the sound economic management of this country. Large funds are being tied up and committed to the Wool Corporation should they be needed. If these funds can be obtained commercially, as they will be obtained, in a period of less tight liquidity than we are facing at the moment, the Government should be keen to allow this to happen and the industry will be keen to see that it does happen. I think that we have to be awfully careful that there is no suggestion of a political tie between the industry and the Government because the Government has been magnanimous enough to come forward with funds at a time when the commercial market appeared not to be able to provide those funds. It is very important that we allow the industry to get onto a proper commercial footing in this respect as soon as it is able to be done. I would suggest that the amendment moved by the honourable member for New England would allow the Government to see that the industry does get itself onto this footing when liquidity starts to ease. 
I also urge the Government to accept the important amendments concerning the protection of the levy funds which have been and will be collected by the Government from the gross value of the wool clip. That $47m needs to have a far greater degree of protection than is presently indicated it will have. I would think that if the Government acts responsibly in this instance it will accept the amendments which have been put forward and which have the support of the growers and of honourable members on this side of the House. 
It is rather interesting to follow the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James).  I sat here listening to his incoherent waffle, listening to him lurching from point to point like a rubber duck and trying to fill out the time to the end of his speech by talking about uranium. When the honourable member's time had almost expired he wanted to talk about multinationals and a few other things which had equally little reference to the Budget. It now becomes apparent why the proceedings of this House are not broadcast on the 3 sitting days because it would be rather unfair to project such stuff to the Australian public. It is equally obvious that the management of this House is such that non-broadcast days are left for members like the honourable member for Hunter to have their rip. 
I get 10 minutes tomorrow because the debate is to be interrupted at 10.30 tonight. After hearing what was contained in this Budget one wonders how supporters of the Government can with all honesty go to the pubs in their electorates and stand up to their fellow men. The Budget is an absolute disgrace. The apologists for the Budget have been digging around in the back pages of the Budget papers for some sort of inspiration, for some good points that they can dig up to bring into this House, some good points that they can try to get across to their supporters, to the people to whom they have had to hand out so many sops. We hear them talk about the Budget being a social justice and welfare Budget. This Budget is an economic and social disaster. We need to look at it in some sort of perspective. We have to be able to look at it in the light of what the problems facing this country are and were at the time when it was drawn up. The things that were crippling Australia then, as they are today in a greater degree, were inflation, unemployment, crippling interest rates and so many other perpetrations by this Government since it has been in power. 
What has the Government done? Having fought 2 elections in December 1972 and May 1974 at which the Government promised what it would and would not do, it now comes in and introduces a Budget which is based on Liberal and Country Party policy which was rejected by the electorate in May of 1974. The Government has based its Budget policy and strategy on tax cuts and tax cuts were the central theme of the Liberal and Country Parties when they went to the polls. We did not hear a word about tax cuts from the Government during the elections. The Government went to the polls talking about full employment. It said that it would not use unemployment. But what has the Government done? It is presiding over the greatest degree of unemployment that we have ever seen in this country. It makes the policies of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  on unemployment look like kindergarten material. 
The policy of the Budget is so confused. The Budget strategy has been completely confused and it has been completely rejected by the Government already. Within a week of the Budget being brought down we have seen such significant alterations to the strategy as $ 150m having to be found for wool funds because the Government believed that it was politically in its own interests to reverse its decision to try to get that money provided by the trading banks or alternatively by the Reserve Bank of Australia. What the Government has done is for some vague political motive to provide that money itself, and that has thrown the Budget out from a $23m domestic surplus to about a $130m deficit, just like that. 
We have had a devaluation of the Australian currency by 12 per cent, and this from a Government which swore black and blue that the value of Australia's currency was the cornerstone of its economic policy. We have had an overnight turn around. There is no discussion with anybody; it is just done. Let us sincerely hope for the future of Australia in world markets that this arbitrary figure of 12 per cent that the Government has picked is a correct figure because if it is not the decision will do Australia irreparable harm. We have the Regional Employment and Development program which the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  proudly refers to as the RED program. Red indeed! This is a $20m proposal to pump money in to cure the massive levels of unemployment that have been created in a mere 20 months under this Government. 
As I said earlier- and I say again- when sectors of the economy are brought to their knees the rescue operations cost so much more than the cost of keeping the economy in some reasonable state of stimulation so that the problem does not arise at all. What about the Caucus committee which is dictating to the Government? The honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  walked into the House after dinner one night and announced that a certain tax announced by the Government in its Budget had been rolled. 
And he could not even say it right, as my friend from Chisolm points out. The honourable member for Chifley came in here and talked about $5,000 of property income when he meant $5,000 of taxable income. He could not even get it right when he came out fresh from that meeting which was undermining the Government's strategy. What are we going to see next? Government supporters talk about the advancement of the citizen. The Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant)  came in here this evening and talked about that. I ask the House to reflect for a moment on just what that means. How can we possibly advance the citizens if all the time the Government is chipping away at the basis of things, if it is destroying the social and economic environment in which these people live, if it is putting extra tax burdens and impositions on the people, if it is taking away incentives, if it is creating unemployment and if it is causing massive redistributions to the public sector from the private sector? How can the Government expect to be able to improve the lot of citizens? All that it is doing is creating some massive book entries which will be brought to account before very long. 
We are asked where cuts should be made in taxes and government expenditure. Everyone on the Government side says: 'Where would you make these cuts?' I will tell them where I would start and they should listen to this because it will be good stuff. I would start with the natural gas pipeline. I would cut that out and put it back into the hands of private enterprise where it belongs. What about the arts? What about the millions of dollars that are being blown on the rubbish that has been purchased overseas? We are talking about $4m that has been spent this week on statues and ceilings that will probably break up when they are moved. We have purchased the paintings 'Woman V and 'Blue Poles'. Where are we going to stop? This Government is blowing money down the drain and is trying to present some sort of avant-garde image to the world. What about unemployment payments? The Government having created unemployment is creating a system whereby anyone who vaguely looks as if he is unemployed is able to receive unemployment benefits. This Government is creating the greatest lot of bludgers and bums that this country - 
-I withdraw,  Mr Speaker.  The greatest lot of bludgers and loafers - 
I withdraw that one, too,  Mr Speaker.  Thank you ;or your guidance. This Government is creating the greatest lot of freeloaders that we have ever seen in this country. I would support some rationalisation of the unemployment benefits that are being handed over to these people. Anyone who is genuinely unemployed is entitled to a fair benefit. I would support the payment of these benefits to those people but I do not support the double payments that are being squeezed out of the Government and the Treasury by people who register in 2 places and people who will not take jobs offered to them. 
What about the 115 commissions of inquiry that have been set up by this Government and are wandering around the world and the countryside considering things which the Government probably will never implement anyway. Let us make some cuts there. Let us make some cuts in the growth of the Public Service. What about making some cuts in the overseas jaunts and junkets that are being made by Ministers of this Government? The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  are at the forefront of that list. Ministers travel in BAC 111 aircraft and hired jets all over the world. They are ripping it off the taxpayers. Because the jets cannot carry a large amount of fuel they have to stop in terribly unpleasant places like Bali and Singapore on the way through to Peking. What a strain on these men. My goodness, where is it going to stop? Let us start by making some cuts in public - 
Debate interrupted. 
-Last night I had the opportunity to make a 10 minute contribution to this Budget debate. Today 10 minutes of my speaking time remains. I am sorry that members of the Labor Party are not thronging into the chamber in their full numbers to listen to my speech because it will contain a bit of fresh thinking. Government members have sat opposite for the last week or two and have asked us where we would make cuts in proposed expenditure. Last night, I made reference to this and suggested a few areas where we might start. To pick up the threads of my argument, I will repeat a few of these points today. I suggested first of all - 
-No, it is not Jones. 
Sorry. 
-I draw the attention of the Minister for Transport to the almost daily occurrence of serious and fatal accidents on the Hume Highway, the Barton Highway and other highways in southern New South Wales. Is the Minister aware that these accidents have been caused by the appalling condition of the roads resulting from incessant rains this year and serious flooding of the Murrumbidgee and other rivers? Has the Minister been advised of the availability of a hot-mix process which enables the laying of a 5-inch surface over a 22-foot road at a rate of 2,000 tons a day, covering 100 miles over a period of 6 months? Now that the Minister has assumed responsibility for national highways is he prepared to investigate this process or any other process to enable an immediate start to be made on the resurfacing of the Hume Highway in the affected areas? Will he support the payment of grants to New South Wales for the restoration of other affected highways in southern New South Wales? 
-Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  and I thank the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh).  As a new member I am particularly pleased to take part in this Estimates debate. I think everybody has initial reactions when one comes into this place and, although one may become hardened by experience over the years, it is probably worth recording what those initial reactions are. The most noticeable thing that I found on coming to Canberra is the conditions that exist in Parliament House. I am one who supports the construction of the new parliament house and I voted for the Capital Hill site. I am very pleased that this site has now been agreed upon and I sincerely hope that planning will start very shortly for the construction and early occupancy of the new parliament house. The average member of Parliament probably spends something like 15 'A hours a day in this place, cramped into a very small room- sometimes sharing a room- and with not terribly adequate facilities. This often, and I think probably quite unreasonably, causes unnecessary hardship for members. As a younger member it does not concern me so much, but I am at least aware of it. 
The accommodation which members are given is far from satisfactory and the assistance that members are given is also far from satisfactory. I have heard a lot about what the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  has done for the back bencher. I do not have anything to compare it with but, insofar as I have heard those statements made, I commend the Minister for the improvements that he has been able to afford to back benchers in this Parliament. I think we have to take into account a number of things when the new parliament house is being planned, and adequate accommodation obviously must come fairly high on the list. I think that secretarial assistance also must come fairly high on the list. I do not necessarily mean that every member should have a secretary, but we ought to be able to devise a workable system whereby a secretary is allocated perhaps to every three or four back bench members. A similar comment would apply in relation to research facilities. It would be a very great boon to back bench members and it would certainly improve the standard of debate in this place if a little research assistance were made available to groups of six or eight back bench members. These are 2 things which should be borne in mind particularly by those who are given the charter to plan the new parliament house. 
Another thing that could be taken into account by the Government is the question of the expansion of the number of members of Parliament, both in the Senate and in the House of Representatives. This may be a touchy subject but it seems to me that the time has come, as the population continues to grow, when a sizable increase should be made in the number of members in the chamber. This is something which can obviously be planned in the light of the construction of the new building in which to accommodate the Parliament. I speak as a country member and as a country member who is facing a redistribution, and the comments that I make have some relevance to the fact that a redistribution is going on. My seat is by no means the largest seat in the Commonwealth; as country seats go it is not all that big- about 13,000 square miles. I have an enrolment in my electorate slightly in excess of 50,000 people. As I understand it, the quota will be 66,000 in this redistribution and, with the 10 per cent variation which the Government has imposed upon us, electorates will be drawn up within boundaries of between 60.000 and 72,000 - 
-The quota is 64,000; I thank the Minister for that. This will mean that the traditional argument will be applied to country electorates and country members will probably be rated at the top end of the scale when it comes to drawing the boundaries and allocating the number of electors. In a seat like Hume that is going to mean perhaps another 20,000 electors. 
Yes, at least. That is going to involve a significant addition to the size of the seat. 
-I will join the honourable member for Prospect in a minute, join him with pleasure. The point I am trying to make is that in a seat like Hume and in the adjoining areas where there are no significantly large towns it is going to involve the tacking on of a great number of small towns. This will vastly increase the geographic area in order to bring in the numbers of new electors that will be necessary, and that is assuming that the seat of Hume is one of those seats which is staying. The increase in electoral area is going to impose serious difficulties not only on the member but also on the electors. We have a situation in Hume where there is no centre for the electorate. There are about 12 towns which, broadly speaking, are of equal importance and if other towns are added this will add to the number of comparable sized towns. A member has to travel incredibly long distances now to serve an electorate of this size. I place on record for the information of honourable members that I have travelled 10,000 miles in 3 months, and that has been during a period when most of my time has been spent in Canberra. I hate to think what mileages will be involved when I am spending two and three months at a time back in the electorate. 
I raise this point because I believe the standard of representation is obviously going to suffer and the work load which is applied to individual members is also going to expand. I realise that there are differences which will apply between city and country areas. When I say that it may be time to think about increasing the number of members in this chamber and reducing the size of electorates, I say it with particular reference to country areas and also in the knowledge that there are many city electorates which cover vast metropolitan areas. It may be in the interests of the electors- and that it what it is about reallyand in the interest of a member being able to do his job more efficiently that there be an increase in the number of members in this chamber. 
The honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  drew attention to the subject of parliamentary salaries and allowances. That is a field in which I have little inclination to get involved, but I would mention the allowances section of it. It does seem to me that there are a significant number of members of this Parliament for whom $4,100 is merely a pittance when it comes to trying to meet the cost of running and getting around one's electorate in a manner over and above the use of those services provided by his eminence the Minister for Services and Property. I estimate that there are a large number of members who are probably exceeding their electoral allowance by 150 per cent. I do not think that it is at all reasonable for any member of Parliament, no matter what his colour, creed, race or nationality, to be penalised from his salary for the cost of his out-of-pocket expenses. I conclude on the note that when a charter is given, if another one is to be given, to the Remuneration Tribunal it be requested to take this matter into account and that we not be left in a situation in which, because of rampant inflation, the cost of staying at a motel and making a couple of telephone calls runs as high as $20 a night and in which members of Parliament are being penalised one against another according to whether they have a large electorate to cover and service adequately or the traditional pocket handkerchief size electorate which we know some members of Parliament do have. 
I listened earlier to the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman).  I am glad that he has returned to the chamber. I think f should suggest to him that he ceases being critical of the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  because the honourable member for Prospect is unable to speak unless he is on the slope. Many honourable members have idiosyncrasies, others have afflictions and yet again some are fairly normal. But the honourable member for Prospect is suffering from the big lean. That should in no way be taken as a comment either way on the member's weight. I ask: What prospect is there for Prospect? 
It is no reflection on the honourable member for Darling Downs and I should not like the Committee to think that there is any friction between me and my colleague and room mate if I take a different tack on the question of the Grants Commission. There are 4 shires in the electorate of Hume which received no grant from the Grants Commission. Obviously there was a degree of disappointment and on behalf of those particular shires I made representations to the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  who was kind enough to arrange for a delegation to meet with the Permanent Head of his Department and with officers from the Grants Commission. On Tuesday the Permanent Head and the officers of the Grants Commission received a delegation of 16 councillors, shire presidents and clerks. The meeting was most worth while and satisfactory and I place on record my great degree of appreciation of the Minister for arranging that meeting. It is a shame that there are not more Ministers opposite as competent and as keen to assist as is the Special Minister of State. 
Without wishing to beg the question of the Australian Council for the Arts I think it is worth pursuing some of the items related to it, particularly those raised in the report of the AuditorGeneral which was presented in this House on 26 September. In that section of the report relating to the Council for the Arts we find that expenditure in 1973 on support for the Arts totalled almost $14m compared with a figure in 1972-73 of almost $6.7m. This represents an increase of slightly more than 100 per cent over the previous year's expenditure. I nave no particular problems about art purchases. In fact, I like to think I understand some of these things. I know I get some enjoyment from them. 
-Indeed I am. What does concern me is the fact that there seem to be problems of administration and of handling funds provided under this particular appropriation, If we are to spend amounts of $ 14m in support of the arts I think the Government has a responsibility, and the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  as the Minister in charge, has a responsibility to see that these grants are administered in a fashion in which they cannot be criticised. 
-I am not suggesting that there will not be criticism about items purchased; what I am saying is that when money is spent, the way it is allocated and the way the grants are administered should be beyond criticism. If we spend amounts of $ 1 4m it is obvious that there is a need to see that there can be no questions about the way the money was spent. We do not want to see a situation such as that which developed in the Department of Aboriginal Affairs over the way lavishly provided funds were expended. I think this is not an unreasonable request to put to the Prime Minister and the officers responsible for administering the Council for the Arts. 
I comment now on a few of the points to which the Auditor-General referred. One of his comments was that the financial statements supplied by some organisations were inadequate as regards accounting for grants received. This is a matter of great concern because a lot of money is at stake and if we cannot ensure that the funds are being adequately administered and that the administration is beyond reproach we are heading for a dangerous situation. In another paragraph the Auditor-General says: 
There was also evidence that arrangements had been made with some grantee organisations for the expenditure of funds from the grant at the direction of the Council or a Board for its own purposes and not for the purposes of the grantee organisation. 
This is starting to smack awfully. much of the situation that developed in the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. It has occurred in other instances beforehand and I think we should all be aware of this factor and make every effort to ensure that it does not happen again. 
As a smaller example, and with due deference to my friend the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Sherry)  who is interested in the musical side of life, an amount of $27,000 was made available by way of grant to the Musica Viva Society for the purpose of paying the salaries of three trainee administrative and three secretarial staff employed by the Music Board. The AuditorGeneral states: 
The terms of the grant to the Musica Viva Society approved by the Minister were 'Training scheme for professional art administrators'. 
This is the type of area where we are starting to get into problems. In this instance the grant was $27,000. 1 dare say that in time, if things are not quickly brought into line, it will be $270,000, and other significant sums of money will show up as having been improperly administered. When we are talking about estimates I think it is important to keep in perspective just what are estimates. They are amounts of money made available to departments under specific headings. They are supposed to be administered properly. When they are being sought they have to be sought as a result of submissions and bids which are as accurate as can be foreseen in the circumstances. A fair degree of responsibility must be exercised by the departments, councils and other bodies which are in a position of receiving funds from the Government, to see that moneys are administered wisely and that no suggestion of criticism can be levelled against those responsible for them. 
-The honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  offers empty words in an unconvincing attempt to defend the Tasmanian members who have refused to participate in this debate on the estimates for the Department of Transport. There is only one way that honourable members and the people of Tasmania will be convinced, and that is by the actions of the members from Tasmania- not by any hollow words from other members on their side of the chamber. 
-Particularly members from South Australia 
-No, I do not want to bring that into it. This chamber and the people of Australia are entitled to know about the condition of country roads, particularly the roads in my electorate which are traversed not only by commercial vehicles but also by tourists who travel between Sydney and Melbourne, Melbourne and Canberra and Sydney and Canberra. 
I am here tonight to make a very brief plea to the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  for some sort of reality to be displayed in meeting the problems which are being faced by the people who use these roads. I am very pleased to be able to compliment the Minister on being able to take some action so soon after he assumed responsibility for the Hume Highway. Agreement has been reached on a program put forward by the Department of Main Roads and the New South Wales Government in conjunction with the Minister's Department to spend $2.5m on repairs to the Hume Highway between Camden and Albury. I probably have more of the Hume Highway in my electorate than any other member has in his electorate. Therefore it is perhaps appropriate that approximately $1.4m will be spent on patching up the Hume Highway in my electorate. The people of the electorate of Hume and other people who use the Hume Highway are grateful to the Minister for this assistance. 
But there are several other major roads in my electorate which are in need of significant assistance. Although these roads are not the responsibility of the Commonwealth, the Government has been able to hand out money to the States under tied section 96 grants and therefore it would be able, if it felt so disposed, to advance money through the States for the specific purpose of maintaining these roads. I ask the Minister Can there be anything that is more important than keeping commerce and people moving throughout the southern portion of the great State of New South Wales? The Olympic Highway runs through Cowra, Young, Cootamundra and Junee to Wagga. The Barton Highway, which everyone knows is an absolute disgrace, runs between Canberra and Yass. The Midwestern Highway runs between Blayney, Cowra and Grenfell. The Henry Lawson Way, which runs from Young to Grenfell, is a disgrace to the name of that great Australian. Significant diversions are now being made from the Hume Highway on to these other main roads which were not built to carry the type of traffic which they are carrying now. There is not a decent mile of public road in the electorate of Hume. 
A grazier from Wallendbeen, which is the dead centre of Hume, was reported in the media the other day as having said that his property had received 70 inches of rain in the 12 months ended this September. That is more than an inch of rain a week. I would like to be told how we can expect local government to maintain roads after rainfall such as that. There have been 3 major floods on the Murrumbidgee this year. Recently the river reached a level in the high twenties and earlier it reached 33 feet. That flood nearly wiped out towns such as Wagga. 
Finally I make a plea in the area of civil aviation. I will curtail my remarks because of the limited time which we have available to us. I refer to the air service between Temora and Sydney. This service needs a non-directional beacon. We have been informed that channels are not and will not be made available for the use of a non-directional beacon to enable aircraft to land at Temora at night. I have advised the Minister that there is a channel which is not being used and which could easily be transferred to the Temora aerodrome. I make that plea on behalf of Temora, and I make the overall plea on behalf of the citizens of Hume and the trade and commerce people who are dependent on the Hume Highway and the other major roads in southern New South Wales which supply Sydney, Canberra and Melbourne with so much of their basic commodities. 
I rise tonight to make some mention of the problems that are being experienced at the moment in the beef industry. In doing this I want to support and compliment my colleague the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Hewson)  who has repeatedly raised these problems in this place and also my own leader, the Leader of the Aus.tralian Country Party,  Mr Anthony,  who has undertaken initiatives today in speaking to representatives of the beef industry m trying to find a solution. But I specifically rise tonight because of a letter I received this morning. I think most honourable members are aware that there are serious problems being experienced in this industry at the moment. 
The honourable member for Mallee said that it is a disaster and he could not be closer to the truth. It is an absolute disaster. The figures that I will give here this evening will make so much clearer the extent of the problem that is being faced by beef producers. On Wednesday last a sale was held at Adelong in my electorate. Some 420 head of good quality grass fed cattle were yarded. Only 390 were sold and those at distressingly low prices. There was no shortage of buyers. In fact they came from Sydney, Blayney, Unanderra, Goulburn, Canberra, Melbourne and other parts of Victoria as well as from district retailers and local slaughter houses. So there was no lack of support from the buying public. For the benefit of honourable members I shall now give some of the prices that were obtained at that sale. The 390 head that were sold attained an overall average of $59.95 and the following is the break up: 105 cows and heifers were sold from $6.50 to $55, for an average of $43.51. I ask honourable members: Just how can a producer be expected to bring a calf to the stage where it is a cow, receive $55 for it and be able to make a living, let alone to do it for $6.50? This is the greatest crisis that has ever been experienced in this industry. At the sale 190 vealers and yearlings were sold from $25.50 to $72.50, to average $55.95, and 15 bulls were sold from $60 to $168, averaging $125.80. In addition 80 steers and bullocks were sold. These bullocks were from  Vh  to 4 years old, each having an estimated dressed weight of 800 lb, and they sold from $95 to a top of $ 102.50. 
The point that I am making is that the beef industry at the moment is experiencing prices which in the last couple of weeks have been at a 30-year low. Last week I think we had sufficient evidence before us to agree that prices have gone below those levels. I want to emphasise in this House that 30 years ago these prices, although low, may have been acceptable in money terms; today they are not. They cannot possibly be. Inflation is running at such an incredible rate and the costs to the producer are increasing at such an incredible rate that these prices- an average for 390 head of top quality cattle of only $60- are just not on. They cannot possibly be on if this industry is to survive. 
In Australia- I can speak particularly for my area in Hume- the vast majority of cattle producers have maintained on their properties the entire calf drop from last year. They have calved again and it is only because these producers are able, because of the particularly good season, to hold on to their stock that these calves from the last drop have been able to be held at all. I ask the House: What will happen when the feed dries up? What will happen when the bushfire season starts? What will happen when producers are forced to offload stock, because they cannot hold it indefinitely? If prices are not going to rise in the next month or so this vast number of young cattle will be forced on to the market. 
In my area, if not in others, we are also in a position where the abattoirs work on quotas. They cannot just say: 'Right, we are going to slaughter all the cattle you can give us. ' They are able to slaughter only a certain number each day. If this number of cattle comes to the market in a rush they will not be able to be slaughtered. There is no way abattoirs could handle them. This would create significant problems. It is very difficult to believe that, in this year of 1 974, when the Australian dollar has just been devalued and we are producing beef for something under a 30-year record low price, our meat cannot be sold somewhere on this hungry globe that we occupy. Somewhere there has to be somebody who is prepared to buy Australian beef at the prices that we are producing it for now. I think it is high time that instructions were given to trade commissioners to get out to get on the job and to do some selling. 
Absolutely. They should get off the cocktail circuit. With all due respect to our trade commissioners, they should get out and sell some beef. The Government should be able to offer to the world, through its trade commissioner service, Australian beef of certain quality at certain prices. I am confident that Aus.tralian producers would be prepared to start offloading on the basis that new markets would be opening up. I thank the House for the opportunity of raising this matter tonight. 
I wish very briefly to take what remains of the last minute of this adjournment debate to express to the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard),  who is in the chamber, my disappointment at the recent flooding of the Murrumbidgee River which has had a most serious effect on the Mountain Maid asparagus farms. Several requests were made to the Minister for assistance in the way of bridges and getting access to the asparagus farms - 
-Having heard the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan)  speaking on the Estimates for the Department of Agriculture last night I could not let this opportunity pass without informing the people of Eden-Monaro that their representative's views are not unanimously held. The honourable member for Eden-Monaro is blinding his electorate with science, with his usual academic jargon and high-flown ideas. He made reference in his speech last night to things like a national soil conservation scheme. And he is a member of a government which has taken away the tax concessions granted to enable primary producers to undertake programs of soil conservation. How much easier would it be to encourage, across the board in Australia, through tax deductions and other incentives, each individual farmer to apply his own program of soil conservation? What indeed would be the costs of administering something like a national soil conservation scheme? Yet our academic friend from Eden-Monaro talks about - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Luchetti)Order! The honourable member is not in order in reviving a debate. He may refer to the subject matter but he should not revive the debate. 
Thank you for your guidance,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  The honourable member for Eden-Monaro is the  Chairman  of the Caucus Resources Committee. This Caucus Committee recently recommended unanimously that $50m for carry-on finance for the beef industry should be made available through the Rural Credits Department of the Reserve Bank. I ask: What has the honourable member for Eden-Monaro done about trying to find ways and means of getting the Government to accept decisions of the Caucus Resources Committee which he chairs? There are many problems being faced by the rural community throughout Australia, particularly in the electorate of Eden-Monaro, but no concrete suggestions have been made by him or by the Government as to how these problems could be overcome. There is no doubt that the beef industry is in dire need of assistance. 
There is no doubt that the wheat industry is in dire need of assistance, despite the fact that its market prospects are among the most favourable in the rural community at the present time. It is true that the Labor Government increased by 10c the first payment on a bushel of wheat, but in terms of inflation which is in existence in Australia today the increase is entirely meaningless. The first payment on wheat should be increased to $ 1 .80. If that were done the effect on those people who are dual producers of meat and wheat would be such that they would have more cash in their pockets and would not be forced to off-load breeding stock and other cattle as they will be forced to do because of the current seasons and market conditions. 
In the time left to me in this debate I want to make particular reference to the beef industry. The Country Party leaders had lengthy discussions on Tuesday with representatives of the beef industry. Among the large number of people who came to Canberra for these discussions were representatives from all levels of industry, from the unions through to the producers, the cattle producers, councils, exporters, wool brokers and the beef agents themselves. Other people were invited but did not come. However, they did send in written submissions. I will refer to some of the points that came out of that meeting. This is a government which advocates a system of open government. We now have industry views on what should be done to alleviate the position and to alleviate the disastrous crisis which is now confronting this industry. I want to know what the Government is going to do and what it is prepared to do in the light of what the industry itself has said it needs. We have gone to the trouble of getting these people down to Canberra and getting them to express what they regard as the assistance that the industry needs. The Government now has the responsibility of assessing those requests and taking some steps towards providing the assistance. 
The suggestions that have been made are very reasonable. They involve carry on finance, and that is something which I do not think we can escape. A suggestion has been made that companies should pay their tax on a quarterly basis. This is something that will further severely restrict the liquidity that does remain in the rural industry, particularly in the beef industry. Companies should be allowed to defer the payment of tax and revert to the original basis of taxation while this particular crisis is upon them. We have a situation in which the Government has increased the meat export levy tax. This again is something which could be shelved until such time as there is increased liquidity and the beef industry is in a better position to be able to handle these problems. I would like to see the adoption of the suggestion that the Commissioner of Taxation use his discretion in respect of imposing penalties on those people who make mistakes and errors of judgment as to what their provisional taxation assessments might be. These people are being affected daily by the crumbling levels of beef prices which are now down to below 10c per lb. Nine hundred dollar bullocks are being sold for $90 and that is a tragedy in national terms as well as in terms of a return to the industry. 
-I am telling you what can be done about it. I am listing the things which your Government could do and which would not cost a great deal of money. It would keep a great industry on its feet. If the honourable Minister will listen to me in the brief time available to me in this debate I will run through a few more of them. We can increase the tax averaging scheme from $ 16,000 up to an amount of $32,000 which would enable many small producers to be able to adjust their income over a period of years so that they can cope with the peaks and troughs such as they are experiencing these days. We could suspend the meat export tax levy. I have already  mentioned that one. We could introduce some of the tax concessions which this Government has ripped off the rural community and which have had such a savage effect on liquidity. Let us, especially the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant)  who is sitting at the table, not forget the importance of liquidity in this industry as in so many others in Australia. But in this industry which is undergoing a particular crisis liquidity is vital and anything that the Government can do to increase that liquidity to alleviate the problems of the beef industry will certainly be well received by the industry. 
I want to know where in this debate are the Government members who should be standing up in this debate for the beef industry which so many of them represent. I want to know what the Government is going to do in terms of assisting and alleviating the problems of the beef industry in this country today. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I rise tonight because there is a significant problem which exists in over-the-border growth in that area to the west of Canberra. This is an area of Commonwealth-State dialogue; it must be so in this particular part of New South Wales. The national capital and Australian Capital Territory dominate this region. The huge increase in population, services and amenities available in this area resulting from the presence of the Australian Capital Territory have had significant effects on the surrounding area. Some of these effects have been good and others have not. It is to the not so good effects that I wish to turn my attention during this debate. The National Capital Development Commission has estimated that the amount of detached housing land available in the Australian Capital Territory indicates that there will be no land available for detached housing after about 5 years. This leads to an obviously expansionary outlook on the part of those responsible for the Territory, both in government and in administration. Expansion can mean only one thing, and that is over-the-border growth with implications for New South Wales that will be apparent to honourable members. Commonwealth-State relations rarely run smoothly, and this is particularly so when State lands are involved. 
With reference to the problems that are being experienced in the Goodradigbee Shire, the State Minister for Environment and Planning,  Sir John  Fuller, has recently been put into a position where he had little alternative but to raise the subdivision limit in that shire from 100 to 1,000 acres, and that is in the area immediately adjoining the Australian Capital Territory. This has been brought about by the continuing speculation in and subdivision of areas, particularly between Yass and Canberra. The whole problem was brought to a head recently over the application to subdivide the large Jeir station property in the Goodradigbee Shire which is close to Hall. The point at issue is that this area in particular, and perhaps the whole shire, needs to be planned, and this is an urgent requirement. It does seem inevitable that at some stage this area will become vital to the future growth and development of Canberra. It may be that negotiations between the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  and  Sir John  Fuller in New South Wales will lead to a joint development corporation to control the required area. It may be that the negotiations will lead to an extension of the Australian Capital Territory border so that areas of New South Wales become part of the Australian Capital Territory. I express no views at this stage on the possible outcome of these negotiations, but what I do want to say to the Minister is that unless negotiations are completed very soon a most unsatisfactory situation will develop in that area. 
There is little argument, even among the landholders in the Goodradigbee, that speculation and subdivision should not be controlled. If overtheborder growth is to proceed, as I think it must at some stage, it will be impossible if so much of the area has already been half carved up. I want to list some of the requirements which I regard as acceptable to both the Federal and State governments and to the landholders. I point out at this stage that there is such concern in the Goodradigbee and Yass areas that a meeting a few weeks ago of a couple of hundred landholders formed a Yass-Goodradigbee landholders' association and I expect that these people will be in touch with the Minister in fairly early course. I look forward to his co-operation with that group. 
The first requirements are for immediate planning. The areas which are going to be developed must be determined and those areas which are not to be developed must be determined. In this area there is obviously some fine agricultual land, some of the best in the State of New South Wales. Honourable members will be aware that Yass and its district is the hub of the fine wool industry of the world. We must also have community involvement in that planning. I would like to see, and I am sure that the landholders would like to see, that the planners live in the area and consult with the landholders of the area. Another requirement is that there must be adequate compensation where this is necessary. It is obvious that all of the shire of Goodradigbee will not be required for over-the-border growth and development, but only parts of it, bearing in mind that this shire runs down to the Murrumbidgee River. At this stage it is very difficult to see how the Commonwealth would be interested in land beyond Yass itself. These are practical points and I think that they could be complied with easily. 
I want also to list some of the problems being experienced by landholders while this 1 ,000-acre freeze is on. Firstly, there is a virtual nonnegotiability of land, and this applies in practical terms in the shires of Mulwaree and Gunning where, although there is no freeze, nobody in his right mind would buy an acre of land. Secondly there are the problems of people wishing to sell portions of properties to pay probate duty, for health reasons and for other personal causes. Finally, there are financial reasons; a man might be in a position where he has to offload land or some portion of land in order to meet his financial commitments. There are other problems being experienced by landholders during this period of uncertainty. They are more of a financial nature and they all revolve around the question of taxes. The first problem relates to capital gains tax, and there is a great degree of uncertainty about the value of the land while this uncertainty exists. The second problem relates to the development gains tax under which, as I understand it, if land is subdivided the whole of that profit increment is subject to tax at income tax rates. Finally, there is the Else-Mitchell recommendation that the community is entitled to receive any profit which is received as a result of zoning changes and changes in land use. 
The discussions and negotiations which relate to this over-the-border growth question were started by the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  in his capacity of Minister for the Interior. He initiated those discussions with  Mr Morton  in New South Wales, and I think it is to his credit that he saw the need at that early stage and did something about it. But there is still nothing concrete to show people. I do not think it is a question of being political in this area; I regard it as a human problem, and people's futures are at risk. It is a question of Federal Government agreement with the State Government and the matter affects the future of Canberra just as vitally as it affects the future of the Goodradigbee Shire. A decision is needed very soon on area zonings so that landholders- and I stress the fact that these are freehold landholderswill know where they stand. I realise that the Minister and the Government have no control over the New South Wales Government in this area, but I do appeal to the Minister for the utmost degree of co-operation, even if he has to bend a little, so that an early solution can be found to this serious problem of over-the-border growth. Let us start with the planning and let us start with it soon. Let us have some initiative from this Government, particularly from this Minister, in the field of co-operative federalism at a practical level. 
Before I conclude I should like to refer to a comment made by the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  that rural areas benefited more on a per capita basis under the recent Grants Commission recommendations. There were 8 rural shires in New South Wales that received no grant. Four of those shires were in the electorate of Hume and I would like to see how the honourable member - 
-They did apply, and they were asked for further information. I asked the honourable member for Shortland and perhaps the Minister to show me how the people in those 4 shires would in fact be better off than the rest of the State. 
I am very pleased to have an opportunity to say a few words in the closing minutes of this adjournment debate. The matter to which I want to direct my attention this evening is the problem being experienced by shire councils, particularly those in the country areas. It is no exaggeration to say that local government organisations in rural areas are suffering one of the most severe squeezes they have ever experienced in their long history of serving the people and providing amenities and basic services to the community. When estimates were drawn up for the current year, shire and municipal councils estimated on the basis of a 20 per cent increase in costs. At the time that appeared to be a reasonable margin to allow for increases and to take up the inflation which most people knew was imminent in the current 12 months period. What in fact has happened is that already, before the yearly estimates have run their course, the increase factor has been an average of about 35 per cent. This has cut into the programs, the responsibilities and the commitments of local government organisations and bodies. How can any local government body be expected to carry out its major programs of public works within the community that it serves when we are going through a period of cost increases of as much as 35 per cent? 
What options are open to shire and municipal councils? They can put up their rates. In fact it has been suggested in some of the reporting from the Grants Commission that a lot of shires should do so. However they are in the position of being answerable, as we are, to their constituents. They are facing a period in which their ratepayers are not able to afford an increase in rates. We have heard eloquent words this evening from my colleague the member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe)  and from the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  about the problems being experienced in the primary sector of our economy, and I also have drawn attention to this on several occasions. It just is not on to add further to the costs being experienced by farmers and primary producers by increasing rates which already are very high and are a very large cost component in their budgets. 
The Government has come forward with some suggestions. It has said that it will give some money through the Grants Commission. It said originally that this money when it is available would not be available for expenditure on roads. There seems to have been some weakening in this respect but the point I want to make is that of the 8 shires in New South Wales that received no grant under the Grants Commission recommendations, my electorate of Hume contains four. It is all very well to talk about the generosity of this Government but if it is going to appear to discriminate or if it is unable to find funds for specific areas, it is only fair that this should be brought before the House and before the Minister who is responsible. This Government has caused a situation in which staff layoffs are now becoming quite serious. Those who have not been laid off are facing that possibility in the very near future. Road maintenance programs are being shelved. Local government organisations are unable to carry on the program of keeping roads in good repair, let alone to commence any new projects which fall within the responsibility of local government areas. 
We have had the suggestion from the Government that under its manpower schemes we can use NEAT- the National Employment and Training system- but that is work orientated. There is no opportunity in country areas for people to be retrained for new employment because it just does not exist there. The RED scheme- the Regional Employment Development scheme- has been introduced but the money provided under that scheme is not available for use on roads. The Commonwealth aid roads grant is being cut to the extent that most shires will get between one-third and one-half less than they got before. The Government must clearly put its position in regard to local government. That position must be realistic. 
Has the Minister for Transport yet determined which highways in New South Wales will be designated as national highways? Will he inform me whether the Barton Highway and the Federal Highway have been or will be classified as part of a national highway? When can we expect the transfer of responsibility to take place so that the Federal Government can get on with the job of bringing the Barton Highway, which is so basic to my electorate, to the national capital and to the movement of trade, commerce and tourism in general, up to an acceptable standard? 
-What we are dealing with in this Bill is a question that has significant ramifications for the States, the rights of 
States and the whole financial relationship which exists between this Federal Government and the State system. I am seriously concerned at the direction that Federal and State relationships, in financial terms, are taking. I think that the time has come when we must have a total re-think on the whole question of Commonwealth-State financial relationships. I want to state my position clearly: I am a federalist. I believe in the federal system as does the entire Australian Country Party. We support strongly the system of State rights and there is no doubt about our position. We have stated it time and time again and we will continue to fight for it within this Parliament. 
At the moment we are faced with a situation where the Federal Government, under the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  is starving the States of money. There is no doubt in my mind that this is completely consistent with the philosophy of the Australian Labor Party that States should eventually be wiped out and replaced with a second tier of government which would be based on regional districts. This is the sort of action which will be eased and facilitated by the squeeze which has been put on State governments and which Bills like this Bill with which we are dealing tonight will also facilitate. As I said earlier we have to have a total re-think of the whole question of the Federal-State financial relationships. We cannot continue to operate on a system of piecemeal money given out here and there, adjusted for this and adjusted for that, with strings attached to it and with the different conditions that the Government here in Canberra wants to apply. We need to help and we need to put States back on their feet- States which are, in fact, on the brink of bankruptcy in many instances. We have to arrive at a revenue sharing formula. It is no longer good enough to have the States come with their caps in their hands begging to the big brother in Canberra for money with which to carry out the essential programs that they are elected to carry out on behalf of their constituents- just as we have our responsibilities to our constituents. It is just not good enough to keep this relationship going in this sort of fashion for much longer. 
I would be prepared to go along with suggestions that the States could have taxes collected on their behalf by the Government in Canberra. I think it would not be a bad thing, indeed, if the States were responsible to the people for the moneys which they spent. It seems to me that there is always a difficulty when the States have no responsibilities in the field of raising funds. As long as we keep the States in the position where they raise funds only from the charges that they make for their services, they will be in a position where they can blame Canberra for the fact that they have no money and for the fact that their programs cannot be implemented as they have promised. If, in fact, we do give some of this tax raising responsibility to the States, I think it might add overall to the stature of parliaments, treasuries and the methods by which money is allocated amongst the priorities which face ministries and governments. 
That is right. I am prepared to accept that. I am talking about a relationship which has to be changed in the future if, in fact, we are going to get ourselves on a sound footing between the Commonwealth and the State governments and if we are going to achieve any sort of rationale in a system which has completely changed because of the inflation that has been forced upon the economy by the absolutely irresponsible actions of the Government of which the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  is part. 
-The honourable member may care to disagree with that. I would be prepared to suggest that what I am saying is completely defensible. I said earlier that what is going on here in Canberra amongst the people who run government- the people who, outside government, have influence and exert pressure on the decisions that are made here- is that there is a philosophy in relation to the States which is that they are a damn nuisance and we have to do our best to wipe them out. That is the attitude that is taken by the Government of Australia today. It is that philosophy which is behind so much of the legislation that has come forward. This Bill, I suggest, is just another example to force the States into a more difficult and more humiliating financial position and to throw much more power, in terms of control over State affairs, into the hands of Ministers in Canberra. 
-Let us not talk about how much money they are getting out of it. Let us talk about the effects of inflation and the reductions that will be imposed on the State governments under this program. 
-The Opposition supports this Bill. The intention of the Bill is to strengthen the exchange controls of this country and to eliminate tax avoidance, particularly through the use of tax havens. I do not regard this Bill as being in any way a political Bill, but I think it is important that some of the ramifications of it be aired. I also think that in this atmosphere we should remember that the previous Liberal-Country Party Government had made moves in this direction. It was realised then, as it is now, that there needed to be changes in the taxation administration and in the controls over funds going overseas and that all governments have a responsibility to the community to see that these things are in fact implemented. I pay tribute to  Mr Snedden  and  Mr McMahon  for initiating these moves in the previous Government. I also compliment the present Government on carrying them out. 
Under this legislation the Government will be seeking to exercise its complete constitutional power over overseas transactions. I think that that is appropriate. It will do that by bringing under exchange control regulations all matters concerned with the flow of money and other financial assets out of Australia. I think that this is one of those powers which the Government has the responsibility to use to the fullest. Of course, it is in Australia's interests- short term, long term or any term- to ensure that we do have protection for the financial resources that exist in this country and that have accumulated within it. Under this legislation the Reserve Bank will be able to refuse applications for exchange control approval if in fact the applicants have not sought from the Commissioner of Taxation an approval which clears the particular transactions for tax purposes. It will require people who want to move money around the world from Australia to satisfy the Commissioner of Taxation that there is no ulterior motive in their doing so, that there is no tax avoidance motive in their doing so and that they are doing so in the normal course of personal or business financial transactions. 
It seems to me that events in recent years, particularly during the mining boom, have drawn attention to the need to tighten up the legislation of this nature. There can be little doubt, although there were significant abuses of the taxation legislation beforehand, that we now have a far greater degree of sophistication among our fellow Australians who are operating with big money, with hot money and with all sorts of money. The law definitely has been bent to fairly significant proportions. This legislation will have the effect of ensuring that Australian money is protected within Australia and that the professional rogues will not be able to shift money from Australia to tax havens or to salt it away in Swiss banks and things of that nature, particularly if there is a tax element involved. 
In this respect the actions of the Barton family come readily to mind. The Bartons, probably more so than anybody else, have abused the financial controls that operate in relation to the governing of the movement of funds out of Australia. They somehow managed to get out of Australia the enormous amounts of money which they had filched from the Australian investing public and put into their own back pockets. The significance of this has been borne out recently by the apparent decision to give the Bartons citizenship in Paraguay. I understand that, immediately that decision had been announced,  Mr Barton  made arrangements to purchase the largest dairy in Paraguay and also to take over a grazing property of quite significant proportions. There is no doubt in my mind, and probably no doubt in the minds of most honourable members in this chamber, that the money which is now being spent to purchase Paraguayan assets rightly belongs to small, medium and some larger investors in Australia. 
I think if we can achieve a situation- perhaps by the amendments proposed to this Bill- of ensuring that things like that cannot happen we will certainly go a long way towards protecting the assets of the Australian people and, naturally, of the country itself. There will always be people who are prepared to take advantage of loopholes in the law and people who will straight out set out to break the law to achieve their ends. By tightening this legislation we will have a position where it is more likely that the funds will at least be in Australia and that money gained by tax avoidance and by other illegal means, which so far has been going overseas, will remain in Australia. Perhaps there will be legislation providing for the recovery of that sort of money, if that should be required. If the money is still in Australia it will be that much easier to recover. 
A need for change has existed for a long time in this area of legislation and controls. Because of the sophisticated and increasingly sophisticated money markets throughout the world, and because of unscrupulous people who operate in this market, both within and without Australia, a great deal of pressure has been put on legislation as it exists. There has been much temptation for people to abuse the laws as they exist. It is a government's responsibility- we recognise it and the present Government recognises it- to see that the legislation which operates and gives power for these controls is kept up to a proper standard so that these practices are not allowed to continue. 
It was mentioned by my colleagues earlier in this debate that clause 39 is one of a quite critical nature. The Country Party wishes to support the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  and the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  in hoping that the changes to this &lt; section will be comprehensive so that there will not be loopholes or ways in which people can slip around the provisions that will prevail as a result of this legislation. I think it is perfectly obvious from the history of mankind that it is basic to human nature that when legislation exists people will always seek to find ways around it. 
I do not have very much doubt, once these amendments have been implemented and the legislation has been altered, unscrupulous people will find other ways of avoiding tax and of moving funds outside Australia, one way or the other. It is to be hoped that the Government, the Treasury, the Taxation Commissioner and other responsible bodies will keep an ear to the ground to find out what these new methods are and what loopholes have been created, and to ensure that these are again closed. If we are able to keep on making sure every time another discrepancy occurs or a loophole is discovered that we close it quickly, we should be fairly successful, I would suggest, in keeping for Australia what rightly belongs to Australia and also ensuring that the revenue itself is not denied contributions which should in fact be paid to it. 
It is Australia's financial resources that we are concerned about in this Bill. To a lesser extent, I suppose, the Budget also is involved. The amount of money which is involved is probably not significant enough to have a serious effect on budgeting but it is Australia's resources and the assets of Australian people, as opposed to the community and to the society, that are at stake when we are dealing with these unscrupulous company promoters and people of that nature. 
I suggested earlier- I say it again- that if we are able to keep these funds in Australia we will have gone a long way towards being able to recover them and to repay them to the people to whom they belong. I think it is worth pointing out also that this is a worthwhile proposal. The amendments are good and so long as the question about clause 39 can be answered satisfactorily they will certainly improve the position in Australia. But it should be mentioned that we have to take these moves, as with other moves, in the context of a total package or a total policy. We must be able to look at this tax measure along with the overall tax laws which exist. 
Although I commend the Government on closing these loopholes, action should perhaps be taken in the context of a total overhaul of tax legislation, tax rates and general tax laws. If this can be done I think we would again have gone a long way towards solving the problems that we face in this economy, of which tax avoidance and the movement of funds is only a part. We should be looking at the question of the total role of taxation in the economy- what importance it has to revenue, what effects it has both socially and economically on people- and seeing in what ways the total Australian tax structure and tax legislation can be revised and a situation developed whereby we are operating under a total impact policy. This extends, of course, right throughout the economy because as soon as we start getting involved in taxation we will become involved in supply and demand, company profits, personal earnings, expenditure, consumer price indexes, inflation and, of course, unemployment. 
I do not want to travel wide of this Bill. I would have thought that a significant number of occasions are made available for us to speak about the overall economic policy of Australia. But it cannot be stressed enough that we need to get away from the wishy-washy sort of approach that the Government is taking towards this particular policy at the moment, the patches and pieces approach to changing this and to changing that, with all the reversals of decisions that we have seen in recent months from the Government, Caucus and the Australian Council of Trade Unions. We need to develop a policy so that Australia knows what economic policy is operating, what taxation policy is operating and what loopholes there may be or may have been so that people have a total understanding of what they can expect to do with the funds that are at their disposal. I think this is critical to democracy. It is critical to free enterprise, whether or not the Government chooses to accept that phrase. It is critical to the whole gamut of Australian life. 
If we are not prepared to give people the ground rules under which they are operating and under which they can expect to operate for a significant period of time, we cannot expect the economy to be prepared to function on any sort of logical basis or on any sort of long-term basis. If in fact we are not prepared to exercise or to allow people to exercise their democratic rights and to exercise the control and the direction of the funds that are at their disposal, we are not doing the right thing by our people. We are living in a democracy and people do have the rights. It is very important to me and to most members of this Opposition- in fact to some supporters of the Government, which is to their credit- that people are made aware of the long term situation which surrounds all these different aspects of their lives. 
If we can say to people: 'You can operate with a fair degree of confidence on these guidelines for the next four or five years', that is going to make people content; that is going to allow people to make investment decisions, and so many other decisions, which will affect the livelihood of this country and the future of the economy. Taxation, about which we are talking under this legislation, is part of that. It is a very vital part of it because people have to make long term planning decisions in the light of the taxation liabilities they will have. They have to be able to make long term decisions in relation to investment, depreciation and payments back and forth between overseas subsidiaries, the parent company and associates. They have to be able to make decisions in the light of the fact that the amendments contained in this legislation will close taxation loopholes. 
We are not opposing the amendments; we are supporting them. I am calling on the Government and the Treasurer, whoever he may be at the moment, as soon as possible to give to Australian industry and to the residents of this country and to the taxpayers of this country a basic document, a basic statement, setting out the overall and total economic approach of this Government. We have to be able to give to the people the ground rules on which they will be able to operate on a long term basis. This in turn will have run through effects on the whole economy, because it will have an effect on employment and unemployment. If investment is able to start winding up again then jobs will be made available. It is only by doing things such as this that jobs will be made available. Such actions will affect the rate of inflation and the rate of government expenditure in this country, having in mind the relationship between the public sector and the private and ordinary tax paying sector. 
I appeal to the Treasurer and to the Government to look closely at all of these matters because by means of this legislation we are taking a step- I commend the Government for it- in saying: 'OK, this is a situation which has to be fixed; this is a situation which must be altered'. We are losing millions of dollars overseas every year in straight cash terms which are being used by ratbags like the Bartons to purchase assets in Paraguay. Because of tax havens the amount of money that is being lost to revenue is significant and growing. The Government has said: 'All right, we are going to fix this'. I compliment the Government for it. But let us keep the process moving. Let us say: 'We have done that and we are going to do this next, in the context of a total overall philosophy which we are prepared to lay down for the Australian economy'. We must have an agreement between the Government and its trade union support so that these things will be accepted and understood by the total Labor movement- its industrial wing and its political wing. 
The Opposition, for its part, is perfectly prepared to accept from the Government a statement of its total overall economic strategy and planning. I am not going to say that we will agree with it, but at least the Australian community, the Australian people and the Australian taxpayers will know where they stand. We cannot dispute- we do not have the numbers to disputewhat the Government might seek to impose on the community. The fact that we do not have the numbers has enabled the Government to introduce many pieces of legislation and regulations which have created so much chaos in this fine community of Australia. If the Government had not had the numbers, we could have guaranteed and assured the Australian people that all of these things would not have happened. There have been several reversals in government opinion and in government policy in recent months. We seriously and sincerely call on the Government to say: 'We have now fixed up this area of tax legislation; we have closed the loopholes and we are moving in the direction of seeing that the Australian legislation is able to operate on a satisfactory, sensible and rational basis'. The Government should then extend that action across the board to its other economic areas and policies. Let us have a total policy from the Government on how this country will be run, what the Treasury will dictate, and what will and will not happen over the next four or five years. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. I call the honourable member for Adelaide. 

 -Mr Chairman 

Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  put: 
That the question be now put 
It is absolutely incredible that one is subjected, when one comes into this, the National Parliament in Canberra, to the words of the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan)  on the 2 Bills we have before us relating to the wool industry. The honourable member for Eden-Monaro comes in here, opens his mouth and lets words gush forth like a waterfall. The honourable member has obviously been wigged. However, he should have been crutched. Judging by his impotence it looks as if something else might have happened to him when he was still a lamb. He comes in here with a totally academic approach. It is about time his electorate became aware of the fact that it is being represented in this Parliament by a man, if he be a man, who has no idea at all of the practical side of the business of wool. He has absolutely no idea at all. He has written a few books but he has been completely discredited so many times in this place that I am surprised that he is prepared to come back in here and show his face. 
The honourable member for Eden-Monaro would not know what foot rot was if he had it himself. He ought to be sent back into his electorate. He ought to be earmarked, branded as a failure and sent round to let his electors see exactly what sort of representation they have in this Parliament. The honourable member is so concerned about his seat and the redistribution, and what his own Government might do to him to get rid of the embarrassment that he is now supporting this legislation in terms of trying to secure for himself a job as the technical expert on the Australian Wool Corporation when the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  gets his legislation through this House, if in fact he is successful in doing that. 
That is all right, because the wallabies at least have something Australian about them, and that is a lot more than you can say for yourself, corning in here like that and distracting me from addressing the Chair as I should be doing. I am sorry,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  but I am being seriously provoked by members on the Government side. 
-I am dealing with the Wool Industry Bill, because that is the subject of the debate. 
I do not want to take too much time because I want to give the honourable member for McArthur  (Mr Kerin)  a chance to have a go and make a fool of himself amongst his people. We can see the basis on which this money is being given. The Minister for Agriculture on 20 November, after seeing what dire straits the wool industry was in, decided to come out with a statement to the effect that some wool users have wrongly doubted the Government's willingness to hold a floor price for the entire season. He said that some of the woolgrowers had doubted the Government's willingness. If that is not the greatest understatement of the year - 
That is right. In fact, all of them have no confidence in the Government. The Government has had the industry's arm twisted so far up its back that it has been broken. Now this Government has been forced to come out in order to maintain some sort of face and to say to the wool growing community that it is prepared to pay another $200m into this support scheme. 
-Only $200m. The point that has to be made in this debate is that this is a haphazard, stop-go, act now, don't act tomorrow policy of this Government. The Government has no conception of what confidence in an industry means. It has no conception of the importance of long term planning in an industry. The honourable member for Eden-Monaro and the Minister for sugar, who does not know anything more about wool either, have no conception of what it means. 
What we are concerned about here is the plight of the Australian wool industry which is still the greatest export earner in Australia today and would have continued to hold that position  if  this Government had not revalued our currency and made such a mess of the industry that it was not able to take the leaps and bounds that it normally would have been expected to take. By providing $150m this Government effectively undermined the marketing of wool to such an extent that overnight there was a fall in its price from 300c a kilogram clean to 250c a kilogram clean. Overnight, the price of wool fell by 50c a kilogram because of the miserable $150m that the Government was prepared to put into the industry. The Government is now contributing another $200m to the industry. What I put to the honourable members opposite is that if they had the guts to back the industry in the first place and to say that they would make $3 50m available to it, that price fall would never have occurred. 
That is the important point. This is what the growers of wool in this country today- those growers in my electorate and in other Country Party electorates-are concerned about. They are interested in their returns from wool. They are not interested in some academic government which is being advised by the honourable member for Eden Monaro who has no conception of what this means. Honourable members opposite have taken all their information from books. This is not socialism; this is an eveningout process that the industry has to go through - 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
With reference to the travelling exhibition of Australian modern art at present proceeding through South America, 
how many paintings are in the exhibition; 
which artists are represented; 
in which galleries or buildings has the exhibition been displayed to date, and at what cost; 
what are the names of the persons accompanying the exhibition; 
what has been the total expenditure incurred to date in respect of the exhibition; and 
f) what is the anticipated total cost of the exhibition. 
I rise tonight to draw the attention of the House to the situation which is developing in the world concerning the shortage of food. The failure of the 
United Nations Food and Agricultural Organisation conference in Rome to arrive at a solution to this particular problem I think highlights the necessity to pursue the discussions even further and to ensure that Australia, for its part, does continue to play a leading role in seeing that the world food shortage is attacked in a serious and responsible manner. The global level analysis shows the population growth still generates most of the additional demand for food and expanding at about 2 per cent per annum world population will double in a little more than a generation. If growth does not slow dramatically merely maintaining current per capita consumption levels will require a doubling of food production over the next generation. Many of us in this chamber will be alive during that period of time. It is a frightening thought when we look at the state of technology that has been achieved in the world as we know it today, the amount of land that is under crop and the amount of protein that is being produced, and then to say that within 20 or 25 years we will have to increase that by the same amount again if we are to keep the world alive. 
The conference in Rome did a lot of basic work on the problems and the concerns that arise from this shortage of food. The study which was prepared for that conference said that the steps needed to bring about an improvement in food production in developing countries are not startlingly new. But that paper put at US$5 billion the target for annual external assistance for agriculture in the developing countries alone as against the present flow of such assistance of about US$1.5 billion. So that in terms of the developing countries alone, and not taking any cognisance at this stage of the fact that developed countries will have to increase their output considerably just to take care of the finance that will be needed in the underdeveloped countries, we are talking about an increase in excess of 300 per cent in the amount of aid that will be necessary to those countries from external sources. 
I was interested to hear the honourable member for Berowra  (Dr Edwards)  earlier this evening talking in terms of aid and the possible improvements that could be made in this situation. I am very pleased to be able to expand on an avenue of that argument. The 'Canberra Times ' of a few weeks ago in commenting on this food shortage said: 
The belief that the world food crisis is not a temporary aberration but a persistent and worsening problem which already has overtones of disaster must focus attention on the little time we have in which to work out a solution. 
-I will come to that. Population policies and the introduction of widespread changes in patterns of food production and distribution are of necessity slow acting programs. I think that brings home the point fairly well that something needs to be done fairly smartly because of the time that will be involved in bringing such programs into operation. The failure of the food conference of the United Nations on 1 6 November was, I think, saved to some extent by the fact that Australia was one of a few countries which were prepared to increase their aid commitments in the interests of the starving world. The Australian aid is now going to be, I understand, $20m which in terms of figures like US$5 billion just to finance agricultural development in underdeveloped countries is quite frightening. The USA and Canada together control a larger share of the world's exportable supplies of grain than the Middle East does of oil, and this is something the importance of which should not go unnoticed in this House. My colleague the honourable member for Calare  (Mr England)  this morning at question time referred to the way in which consumption trends can be altered. The impact of rising affluence on the consumption of livestock products is evident in the US over the last generation. For example, the per capita consumption of beef climbed from 55 lb in 1940 to 1 17 lb in 1972- more than double. Poultry consumption rose from 18 lb to 51 lb during the same period. 
There is a great deal of evidence that there are avenues which can be pursued to try to change the eating habits of these emerging countries with enormous populations. We may be witnessing a transformation of the world 's protein market from a buyer's market to a seller's market, just as the world's energy market over the last few years also has been transformed. The world must have great awareness of the fact that this type of situation is developing, and that unless there is a responsible policy on a world-wide basis to ensure that the hungry countries, the starving millions, are not exploited by countries which are wealthy in the protein and grain products which those countries and people need. 
Australia must take a more responsible position in encouraging its producers to play their part in this world crisis. The Australian Government has a responsibility to ensure that the primary industry sector of our economy does have the necessary incentive and the necessary willingness to expand production so that we can offer to play our part in this crisis. I suggest that this is a situation which is not going to ease. It is not a cyclical thing which will result in a glut of grain, for instance, on world markets in a few years, because the consumption of these products is rising so rapidly and the population is rising so rapidly that any surpluses will either be able to be consumed or be stored for such a period as may be necessary. The world is coming, but not fast enough, to the conclusion that these storages must be provided and that there must be stabilised control of the world's grain and protein areas of production in particular if the needs of these developing countries are to be met. We must have from this Government positive action to encourage Australian producers to get on with the job of producing more. 
The fertiliser bounty which is due to be removed at the end of December costs a miserable $56m a year. The effect of that on the production of Australian grains and protein is enormous but when we talk about the billions of dollars needed to boost agricultural production in other countries an Australian contribution of $56m in this significant crisis is chicken feed. We have got to see that payments to wheat growers in particular are such that they are encouraged to stay in the industry and increase production. I call on and urge the Government to look responsibly at this problem so that Australia cannot only be seen to be but also will be playing a positive part in the solution of the world 's food crisis. 
I support the amendments. I must say that on reading the section of the second reading speech of the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson)  dealing with the market support fund I was completely amazed at some of the references that he made. He said that under the Bill levy funds which have been collected may be put to other uses in the meantime for the benefit of the industry. He went on to say that those funds can be used to purchase wool, to pay advances to growers or that those funds can be invested. To my way of thinking there is no way in the world that can be interpreted as meaning that there is a double risk involved to the growers' money. It is being collected on the one hand to cover losses and then on the other it is being used to buy more wool. I do not see any way that that is a satisfactory solution to the problem. I make that point strongly. I support the amendment. 
I will not detain the Committee in view of the time. I disagree with what the honourable member for Eden-Monaro said. I think that this is an eminent and reasonable amendment. It is the sort of amendment which it should not have been necessary to move. It is the sort of amendment which the Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson),  having had it drawn to his attention, should obviously accept. There has to be sensibility in negotiations. Changes that will affect the conditions in the industry will be far more fruitful if there is consultation between union organisations and the appropriate employer groups. I will not say anything more on this matter other than that I fully support the amendment that has been moved. Whilst speaking on the subject I should say that I think when one looks at the actions that have been taken against this industry there could very well be a clause in the legislation which states that the Government should consult with the industry when it is looking at things which will affect the industry. For instance, this would apply in regard to devaluations and matters of that nature. 
-This is another example, to my mind, of the ivory tower philosophy that the Government has. If proposed section 20a (2) is allowed to remain and proposed section 20a ( 1 ) stands as printed in the Bill the Minister for Agriculture will be in a position virtually to enforce upon the Corporation Government policy in relation to trade union arrangements and negotiations. The Corporation will not be able to represent the industry which it is there to represent and which elects members to the Corporation to carry out the responsibilities that they have. We will have a situation where the Minister will be able to say to the Corporation: 'This is the sort of industrial policy that we are following. You will have to toe the line on this policy. You have to negotiate with the unions on the basis that you are going to concede these different points. You cannot go and talk to the growers, and even if you could, there is no point in doing so because you are being instructed by me, the Minister, to accept the guidelines that I lay down. ' 
I do not want to take this matter any further than that. I merely say that this is another one of those situations where all wisdom is thought to lie with the Minister and where the industry will not have the opportunity to express a view through the grower member of the Corporation because the Corporation will have been directd by the Government to follow a particular line. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Transport. He will recall statements by himself and the Prime Minister that the Hume Highway would be re-routed to near Canberra, Tumut and Batlow. I draw the Minister's attention to an article in the 'Bulletin' dated 1 March which suggests that re-routing the Hume Highway would cost at least $ 1,000m and would cut only 15 kilometres off the existing route. Will the 
Minister comment on this report and indicate whether the proposed new Hume Highway is still a national priority? Will the Minister recommend the provision of an all-weather road from Canberra to Tumut in the event that the rerouted Hume Highway is not proceeded with? Will the Minister reallocate funds from the national highway program to rural shire road programs which presently are starved of funds? 
I also rise in this debate to speak briefly because I realise that the time that has been taken up in considering this matter has been lengthy and that there is very little of a fresh nature that can be added to the debate. In rising, I am very mindful of the responsibility that falls to me and to other members of this Parliament in trying to formulate our attitudes to legislation such as we are faced with at the moment. Also I am rather humbled by the fact that a vote which I may cast in this debate could have an effect on thousands and thousands of marital relationships in this country. For that reason, I have given this legislation a great deal of thought and consideration before arriving at the views which I feel I must support. 
In arriving at those views, I have been very much influenced by the position that the family holds in the society in which we live and by the position that the family has held over the period m which our civilisation has existed. To me, the family is the basic core unit of the society in which we have all grown up and which has existed for some centuries now. It is important that legislators do what they can to preserve that family unit. For that reason, I have looked at the legislation from the point of view of preserving and trying to strengthen that unit which I regard as being the prime and the central core of our society. 
When one looks at legislation which will affect families and family life and which will have an effect on children, the relationship between parents and the interdependence of one individual on another if a relationship is to continue no longer, I believe that there must be- and it is very difficult to escape from- a situation where fault is taken into account. The proposition put forward by people that there should be no fault divorce is, I think, idealistic, as is the belief that a relationship can be severed and dissolved without taking into account the causes for so dissolving it. It seems to me that, when we are looking at this legislation, we should be asking ourselves: 'Is this a realistic solution? Can you have a situation of no fault divorce?' To me, the critical issue is that we cannot and that legislators have accepted that we cannot because those framing the Bill have had to take into account that fault must be considered in looking at such aspects as the maintenance and custody arrangements to be entered into following the dissolution of a marriage. 
When we look at the question of no fault divorce, we must take into account these aspects. If the marriage is to be allowed to break up, this can be done in one of two ways. We can say we will be prepared to be cosmetic about it. We will be prepared to be artificial about it. What we will say is that, regardless of the reasons behind a marriage breaking down and no matter what stresses, strains or problems may exist, we will allow our legislation to contain a blanket provision which says that if a party to a marriage moves out for a year the marriage can be broken up. I do not really think that this gets to the core of the problem. I do not think that such a proposal does anything to strengthen the institution of marriage. As such, I think it follows that it does nothing to strengthen the society of which we are a part. 
On the other hand, we can say we will accept the problems. We will try to solve them. We will try to get to the root of the problems which cause marriages to break down. Although that approach is a lot less pleasant and a lot more difficult to achieve, I think that it at least presents an attitude of trying to grapple with the problem and trying to be realistic and rational about it. In my view, we cannot take a simplistic approach and say that no matter what the cause of the problem is, no matter what the burdens may have been or no matter what are the reasons for seeking to dissolve a marriage, all that one needs to do is to express that problem in the form of a separation for 12 months. To me, the Bill is a healing lotion, a balm, or something of that nature which smooths over the problems which exist in marital relations. 
To my mind, there are problems in the legislation between what the BUI says about the institution of marriage and what it seeks to do. Clause 43 of the BUI lists the principles which will be applied by family courts. It provides that such courts should have regard to: 
the need to preserve and protect the institution of marriage as the union of a man and a woman to the exclusion of all others voluntarily entered into for life. 
Clause 43 continues: 
the need to give the widest possible protection and assistance to the family as the natural and fundamental group unit of society, particularly while it is responsible for the care and education of dependent children. 
Those principles, as espoused in the BUI, are quite admirable. I would not seek to argue them. What I would argue is this: In this legislation, the need to preserve and to protect the institution of marriage and so on is not backed up. The BUI within 5 clauses- I refer to clause 48- goes on to provide that a marriage can be broken up simply by a separation for 12 months. I do not think that that is good enough. The whole question of separation is one which seems to me to be full of anomalies. A party to a marriage can move out of the marital home for a period of 12 months. At the end of that period, that party can apply to have divorce proceedings instituted. In that instance, a divorce could be granted. Alternatively, such a party can stay in the marital home. The BUI provides in clause 49: 
The parties to a marriage may be held to have separated and to have lived separately and apart notwithstanding that they have continued to reside in the same residence . . . 
That provision, to my mind, is completely wide open to all sorts of abuse. 
The questions of separation, habitation and cohabitation arise also, as I understand, in some social security legislation. In that situation, a woman who is separated from her husband, divorced or widowed and who has a man living in her house, whether she be having some relationship with him or not, finds that the Government and the Department of Social Security take the view that she should not be in receipt of a social security pension. That seems to me to be accepting one standard in one instance and a different standard in another. A woman may live with somebody and be regarded as separated in terms of divorce requirements, but she cannot live with somebody and be regarded as separated with respect to qualification for the receipt of a social security pension. That distinction seems to be a little bit difficult to follow. 
The fact that a man and a woman can live together in the same home and under the Act be deemed to be living separately and apart, indicates to me that situations can and will arise where a man and a woman in agreement about divorce can say: 'We will tell the court that we have been separated for the last 12 months. That means we can get divorced tomorrow'. I think there are problems in that area which tend to detract from what should be the philosophy behind the BUI and the philosophies expressed in clause 43. 
The questions that arise about maintenance give me great cause for concern. I have a fundamental belief- I suppose an inbuilt or inbred belief- that women have a position in our society and that they are the people whom males have a responsibility to protect and provide for. Women, in accepting the responsibility of bearing the children, take upon themselves a position which must be respected by the males in our society. It seems to me to be a harsh and unreal situation that, under the provisions of clause 72 of the legislation which is presently before the House, if a relationship dissolves the woman can be expected to return to the work force and may be expected and required to change the way of life to which she has been accustomed and which she has been encouraged to adopt over a lengthy period during the marriage relationship. That is a fundamental change which should not lightly be pushed upon the women of our society. 
The question of costs that arises in clause 1 1 7 is of similar concern. To my mind at least, an innocent party should not be required to be involved in the payment of costs under an action which has been brought by the other party, that party perhaps being the guilty party. It seems to me that a person who may not necessarily be in receipt of an income and who is put into a position where he or she is forced, as a result of a unilateral decision being taken by the other party to dissolve the marriage, would be put at a financial disadvantage. 
The Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  has said: 'That is all right, we have legal aid'. That is another argument which I reject because legal aid is not something which I as a taxpayer feel happy about supporting if it will alleviate the financial burden of one party who should be accepting the financial burden of the costs of a divorce which has been desired and instituted by that party. If a man seeks to divorce his wife on some grounds, then I believe it is his responsibility to foot the bill for that. He should not expect his wife to accept financial liability in that area, nor should he expect the general taxpayer to accept the financial responsibility for the satisfaction of his desires. 
To me the Bill is an unreal Bill. It tries to cover with a blanket the problems that exist in marriages and to replace the realistic search for a solution simply by saying: 'We will give you a period of 12 months'. One cannot get away from the situation where fault must be considered in any questions of dissolution of marriage. This Bill recognises that, and I think it is unreal to suggest that in terms of maintenance and custody it can be said: 'You must look at fault', but in terms of the actual grounds for the dissolution of the marriage it can be said: 'You do not have to look at fault'. To me that is not realistic. 
Some of the things which concern me about marriage and the marriage relationship and the dissolution of that relationship are matters which I do not think have been canvassed enough in the Parliament. Perhaps they have not been considered in the drafting of this legislation. I think what needs to be looked at is a situation where we remove many of the abuses that exist in a marriage dissolution. I think strongly that if a marriage has got to a position where it has broken down and there is a need for divorce, what should happen is that the divorce should be allowed to happen reasonably quickly, reasonably cheaply and without any personal- by 'personal' I mean in a public sense- display of the problems that have existed within that marriage relationship. 
In the Committee stage we should be looking at an arrangement whereby when there is consent, the marriage should be allowed to be dissolved within perhaps the 12-months period. If there is not consent by one of the parties, if it is only a unilateral decision to dissolve the marriage, I think the period should be longer, and I suggest that the 2 years which has been mentioned is perhaps a far more reasonable period. I think, however, in situations of adultery, or of extreme cruelty, or of incest, or of some other circumstances, immediate relief should be available as there is under the existing legislation. If a man comes home and finds his wife in bed with another man, he is entitled to go to the Court the next day and seek to divorce her, and vice versa. If a woman comes home and finds her husband in bed with another woman, she should not be faced with a situation where the only alternative is to pack her bags and move out of the marital home for a period of 12 months and support herself for that period, if she does not wish to subject herself to the ignominy of remaining in that matrimonial home for the 12-months period with that man who has done the wrong thing by her. 
I want to make clear my position on the Bill. I have given it serious and sincere consideration. I find I cannot support the Bill in its existing form. I will be voting for the amendment which has been moved by the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart).  I sincerely hope that in the Committee stage the House will be able to bring a series of more reasoned solutions to the problems which we, as sincere legislators, are trying to reach in the interests of Australian society as a whole, to provide Australian society with a system which is not harsh, but which at the same time does respect the institution of marriage, and instils something of value in our society, rather than something which detracts, as so many other things do, from the basic strength of the society in which we live. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes,  Mr Speaker.  In the 'Australian' newspaper this morning I was listed, among the members who were categorised as having voted against the second reading of the Family Law Bill. I wish to make it clear that I did not vote against the second reading of the Family Law Bill. I voted in favour of the amendment to the Family Law Bill. I voted in favour of the motion that the Bill be read a second time. It is my intention to support amendments to that Bill in the Committee stages. 
-The clause that is being considered by the Committee at the moment, clause 2 1, is one of the major clauses of this legislation. It is a clause which, to my way of thinking, is one which, on the surface, is not objectionable. But it becomes objectionable when it is studied in depth. It will be most difficult to disagree with the concept that people should know what parties candidates who are standing for election to Parliament represent. In the Bill, six or seven pages are taken to express the provisions of this clause. The burdens placed on the democratic system by this clause, I think, are completely unwarranted. There is a fundamental right- an inalienable right, I believe -for individuals in a community to be able to offer themselves for election to a Parliament. No barriers should be put in the way of people offering themselves for election or being associated with political parties. 
What concerns me is that people who are sincere in their intention to offer themselves to the electorate should be given that opportunity. People who are not sincere should have some restrictions placed upon them. A nomination fee does tend to discourage those whose candidature would be frivolous. I think that we have arrived at a situation in which at best the majority of those who do offer themselves for election are serious in their intentions. This clause will require a political party to field 12 candidates for the House of Representatives in New South Wales, 9 in Victoria, 5 in Queensland, 3 in South Australia, 3 in Western Australia and 2 in Tasmania to meet its provisions. This clause, I think, places a most severe burden on emerging parties. We must accept that there can be no restriction on the rights of people to group together, to form parties and, having formed parties, to offer candidates for election by the Australian people. If this Parliament legislates to make it more difficult for people to form together and to rally people to the same view, that will be a retrograde step. A basic freedom amongst Australians must be the ability for alternatives to be offered to the Australian people at elections. This is a fundamental right that must be protected. 
The proposal concerning the registration of political parties follows on from the provision that party affiliations are to appear on ballot papers. This is typical and representative of the attitude that this Government takes towards regimenting and registering just about everything which could come vaguely within its ambit under the Constitution. In my mind, there is an argument for saying that the voter should be informed and there certainly is an argument for saying that, at a polling booth, a list of candidates and their parties should be displayed, perhaps on the ballot paper. 
I am saying that I think there is an argument. What I am putting to the honourable member and the Committee is that in this legislation the manner of bringing about that situation is not acceptable to me. If the Government can propose a system by which, without going into registration and regimentation and without requiring six or seven pages of a Bill to set out the sub-clauses necessary, it can bring about a system under which voters may know what parties are represented in elections, it might be worthy of support. But the Government does not seem to be able to do that. The form in which this proposal is put forward is completely unacceptable. The registration question is one which has to be simplified if it is to be workable. There are a number of problems involved in this respect. I turn to proposed new section 58M which provides: 
A Party shall not have more than one registered name at any one time. 
-That is exactly the point. This is something which is occurring in the Australian Country Party at the moment. There is no reason to say that something similar will not occur in any other party at any time. Name changes resulted in the present party names of the Liberal Party and the Australian Labor Party. Political parties have a history over a period of changing their names. In the process of that name change, obviously there will be periods when duplications and things of that nature will occur. Although the principle behind proposed new section 58m is obviously a good one, there will be times when it will be really difficult for some groups to conform with that provision. 
Returning to the question of registration, I shudder to think of the complications which will arise from this legislation. What we must do is encourage democracy in Australia and to encourage the development of democracy in Australia. That is what is important. There is no logical end to what the Government proposes. For instance, the honourable member for Phillip may say: 'Okay, I want to put beside the name "Riordan" the party name ALP.' I ask the honourable member: Why should he not put beside 'Riordan- ALP' the further qualifications 'age 48' - 
-Or 'religion- Anglican '-that would be wrong too, I suppose- and add 'failed the Leaving Certificate, union representative' and a series of other matters which the electorate is just as entitled to know in formulating a view as to how it will vote. The fact is that that information is available to the electorate in the newspapers and through how-to-vote cards. To my way of thinking, the only people who are not informed when they vote are those who do not want to be informed. What the Labor Party is trying to do is to educate its own electors who probably do not understand, cannot read, and things of that nature. 
It is not. I was making the point that there is no logical end to the proposition that the elector should be informed about what party a candidate belongs to. There are a large number of details about a candidate which should equally be made known to the electorate, apart from just the party to which the candidate belongs. The fact is that party groupings are conventional; they are not binding. When a man is elected by the electorate and he comes to this place, he sits with a party. He is not bound to stay with that party. He may choose to - 
The honourable member for Port Adelaide has a consistent habit of stating what may be the obvious. But without wishing to drag down the tone of this debate, the fact is that that is the right of an elected member of this House. It is a democratic right and a constitutional right. It is a right that should not be interfered with. If I as a private member of Parliament am to be forced to make an association with a party which is binding and which will be represented on the ballot papers, and things of this nature, I think that this is something which should be taken very seriously and be looked at a lot more seriously than it has been. The basic point behind the argument I am putting is that it is democracy which is important in this instance. To my mind clause 21 seeks to tighten democracy, to restrict democracy and to develop a situation under the electoral laws of this country in which it will be more difficult for other than the established parties to contest electorates and it will be difficult to do anything to alter the political status quo in this country. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development upon notice: 
What is the average traffic flow passing through Hall on the Barton Highway on 
weekdays, and 
weekends. 
Of the total traffic flow on the Barton Highway, what proportion of motor vehicles are registered in the A.C.T. 
-Without wishing to bring any new material into the debate, let me say that it is apparent that the Minister has not chosen to - 
Motion ( by  Mr Daly)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 

 -Mr Speaker - 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
-The Australian Bureau of Statistics Bill which the House is considering at the moment is, to use the Minister's words, a Bill which will ' bring about a number of fundamental changes in the organisation of our statistical services'. For that reason I think it is a Bill that deserves some serious debate. This Bill seeks to establish the Australian Bureau of Statistics as a statutory body to fulfil the functions of a central statistical authority. It seeks to establish a statutory position of Australian Statistician and also to establish an Australian Statistical Advisory Council as a statutory body. The Government is seeking to make these radical changes in the structure of the statistical service as we have known it in this country to date. 
To me the Bill is another in a long series of Government Bills designed to remove from the Parliament and from the Government the responsibility that should rightly be with the Parliament and the Government to oversight things that are of importance to individuals who live in this country. It is a Bill which seeks to vest in a statutory body responsibility which, in my view, rightly belongs with the Parliament. 
-No, I am not opposing the Bill. I am pointing out what I believe to be the correct and philosophical position which the Government should be supporting. The rights of individuals in this country, a democracy, are important. Any statistical collection will be an invasion of the privacy of those individuals. I am one who believes that an amount of statistics must be collected in this country because that will enable governments and other interested parties to be aware of the position in different areas of the economy and of the life of Australia. There is no doubt at all that statistics are necessary. But a line has to be drawn- I think it is an important line- between statistics which are necessary and statistics which are being collected for the sake of collection. The Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  in his second reading speech stated: 
It has to be recognised that the demand for statistics and statistical services is insatiable and that only the most important requirements can be serviced. 
I think that the Minister in making that statement was referring us to a fact of which we should all be aware. There will always be demands by Government, by individual groups, by organisations for information which, in one view, should be available and which, in another view, to ask for it would be an invasion of personal rights. This is the principle which should be at the centre of any discussion on this Australian Bureau of Statistics Bill. I accept the assurance of the Special Minister of State that a Bill relating to privacy in the matter of statistics collection will come before this House. But I have some concern about this because although I believe the Minister to be honourable, if there should be a change in the ministry we could be in a position in which that legislation might not come before Parliament and we could be left with this legislation with no follow-up such as we have been promised. That is an important aspect of this legislation. I would far rather have had the Government wait until it was in a position to bring the privacy legislation into this House and then have discussed both Bills at the same time. The Australian Country Party has a strong view about the collection of statistics in the agricultural community and in the different industries that make up that community. 
-As it has in all matters. I thank the honourable member for Riverina for drawing my attention to that important fact. The problems which arise in rural industries are significant. The Taxation Office requires its statistics as at 30 June but the Bureau of Statistics requires its figures to be provided as at 3 1 March. That imposes a burden upon the primary producers of this country which I believe is not fairly placed upon them. There are great numbers of people who can ill afford this. They have to employ accountants to take out returns and figures to meet the Statistician's requests. In many cases the cost of this is a little difficult to bear. It also involves the mustering of stock which has to be put through yards in order to assess what the numbers might be as at 3 1 March, and an assessment has to be made of the births and deaths which have taken place since the last statistical count was made. These are factors which are artificial and which interfere with the normal management of rural properties. I believe this is a burden which is unfairly placed upon that sector of the Australian community. I can understand that the Statistician has a mass of statistical information flowing in following 30 June each year and that he seeks to spread his work load throughout the year, but I think that if this collection of information had to be set at a different time then perhaps the more appropriate time might have been 31 December. The arbitrary choice of the end of March for providing primary industry statistics proves to be a significant burden on the industries concerned. 
This Bill is divided into 5 sections. The first section deals basically with the definitional and other functional matters. The second section provides for the establishment of a statutory position of Australian Statistician and for the establishment of the Australian Bureau of Statistics as a statutory body with the functions of a central statistical authority. The point that needs to be made in respect of this is that Parliament is losing control over an important area of the Australian life style. There can be no doubt that in matters of this nature the Parliament should be responsible for and should be able to debate the matter. The Government itself should take responsibility for any odium which attaches to information it requests. If the Government is not prepared to accept that odium then it must face the people at election time and be judged on this along with the other issues of the day. It is a retrograde step in terms of the democratic development of this nation to pass off this responsibility to a statutory body which moves out of the scope of parliamentary debate. The statutory body will provide the 
Minister with another way of passing off responsibility. Today many honourable members are expressing concern at the replies they get from Ministers in so many areas. Ministers have said: 'I have referred the matter you have raised with me to the statutory commission, to the statutory corporation or to the  chairman  of something or other. He has undertaken to look at it and report to me. I shall inform you of his reply'. To my way of thinking and to the way of thinking of a lot of honourable members in this chamber, that is not a satisfactory position. The Minister and therefore the Government is being absolved of the responsibility of making decisions and of facing up to the results which those decisions must inevitably bring. 
The third part of the Bill relates to the establishment, functions and composition of the proposed Australian Statistics Advisory Council. This to me is another clouding of the issues. Rather than the Minister laying down what should be looked at and what statistics should be collected, he is passing to another body the function of determining what should and what should not be included in statistical collection programs. I think the comments I made in relation to the second part of the Bill apply here also. We are getting a movement away from the Parliament into advisory councils and statutory bodies of the responsibility which rightly belongs in this place. The Minister in any of these situations is in a position where it is very difficult not to accept the advice which is given by these statutory bodies, advisory councils and bodies of this nature. If a Minister chooses not to accept the advice, then the question arises why there is the necessity to have an advisory council at all. Again this relates to the important point that the Parliament must be supreme in these matters and that these things should be debated. 
The fourth part of the Bill provides for annual reports to the Parliament by the Statistician and by the Council. This is commendable but it goes only part of the way because rarely are honourable members in this place given an opportunity to debate these reports. They are tabled and they seem to go into oblivion in the stacks of paper which surround the conduct of the chamber and adequate debate never ensues on reports from councils and statutory bodies. It is an effective way of canning the whole responsibility and moving it out of the area of the Parliament. One of the amendments which the honourable member for McPherson  (Mr Eric Robinson)  will move at the Committee stage reads: 
After clause 6, insert the following new clause: '6a. Each new proposal for the collection and compilation by the Bureau of Statistics and related information shall be laid before each House of the Parliament before its implementation.' 
Although I am unhappy about many aspects of this Bill, that amendment which will be moved by the honourable member for McPherson goes a long way towards bringing back to the Parliament the responsibility that should properly lie in this place. It brings back to the Parliament the responsibility for imposing new demands on people for the provision of information which is required by government and by the Australian community. 
I said earlier- I want to make it perfectly clear- that I am not opposed to the collection of statistics. What I am saying is that a line has to be drawn between how much statistical information is needed and how much is asked for, that that matter should be the responsibility of the Minister and the Government, and that what that level of information should be should be debated in this Parliament. It is not good enough, in my view, that we should be able to pass off the whole question to a statutory body and to an advisory council which will be able to make recommendations of which this Parliament may not be aware, and it is not good enough that statistical information can be sought in such different ways that costs and burdens can be imposed on sections of the community which do not rightly belong there. I think that we ought to take those things into account, and I think that the principal amendment which will be moved by the honourable member for McPherson is one which should be supported by the Government. I believe it is one which will allow for adequate debate. I believe that the responsibility for those policies which the Government seeks to place on the Australian public should lie with the Government and the Parliament, and I believe that the Government should see that that responsibility does stay in this place. 
-We have listened again to another tirade from the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan)  who finds it impossible to control himself in debate in this chamber. He continues to come into this place and make speeches which are full of invective and often he says nothing constructive. He is the man who believes that religion is on the way out. It is this Labor Government led by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  which is on trial. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Fraser)  has made it clear that the responsibility for this nation is in the government's hands. There is now no threat of an election. The Government's term has another 2 years to run. In that time it has to face up to the problems which it has created in the economy. There is no point in going back into history. There is no point in going back into what the previous Government did. In this debate we are looking at what this Government has done to the economy and asking what the solutions are to those problems. 
It is the current mess which has to be considered in this Parliament. We have to sheet home the responsibility where it belongs. It belongs fairly and squarely with this Government. The honourable member for EdenMonaro should make his position clear. We know how he voted in relation to the Phosphate Fertilizers Bounty Bill 1974 which was brought in late last year. He voted against the continuation of the superphosphate bounty. Yesterday in this place we heard a member of his resources committee- the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)-  saying that that committee was trying to back-track on that Bill and put something forward which would allow a superphosphate bounty to be paid to people who used up to 30 tons. The honourable member for Wilmot informed the House that that would cost $50m. Yet in the full year prior to this when the superphosphate bounty was paid to all users of superphosphate the total cost was $58m. So there will be a $8m reduction. 
The honourable member for Eden-Monaro has done nothing for beef. He has ignored his electorate and the needs of the rural producers. He has become the honourable member for Queanbeyan. Let us not talk about the cuts that we want to make. This Government can expect to introduce at least 2 more Budgets into this place before the policies of the Opposition will be put on trial. We have had 20 months of the honourable member for Eden-Monaro and nothing constructive about the economy. We have the greatest problems in generations facing our economy and yet we have heard nothing constructive from that honourable member. These Supply and Appropriation Bills come into the Parliament at a time of great difficulty for the Australian economy. We are faced with heavy unemployment. The number of people who are presently out of work represents about 4te cent of the work force of this nation. Inflation is running at a high rate. The predictions and expectations are that next year the rate will rise as high as 30 per cent. Where are the causes and responsibilities for these problems which face the economy? They lie in the mismanagement of the economy by the Whitlam Government. 
In 1973 we saw a Budget introduced at a time when the Government had an opportunity to tighten up the economy. But it blew that opportunity. It introduced an expansionary Budget and allowed the economy to continue to run riot. This Budget has to be followed by a tight money period. I ask the House: 'Who has felt the effects of that tight money period which followed the 1973 Budget?' The burdens were borne by the young home buyers, the people who are supposed to be represented by this Government, the people who are on fixed incomes, the superannuitants and the pensioners. The burdens were borne by the people who have their assets in financial form rather than in property form. Those people saw significant reductions in the value of their assets. The burden was carried by companies which were forced to narrow the margins of profit and to absorb increases in costs. We have seen the burden borne largely by those people who are in the position of having to pay interest. 
This period was followed by another Budget in 1974 which led to further expansion and, at this time, it has finished up with a Budget deficit which is running in excess of $3,000m. At the end of the financial year the deficit is expected to be about $ 1.8 billion. What is the scene which faces the Australian people in the next 12 months? Enormous problems face Australia in the next 12 months because of the crude Keynesian policy which the Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  is pursuing. It is only likely to increase further unemployment and inflation in this country. If inflation runs at only 15 per cent next year there will be significant problems in Government programming for the Budget. We can expect a relative reduction in the growth of taxation receipts next year. Company profits are going down. The vast rake-off which Treasury will take from company profits next year will be down. 
There can be no doubt that the taxation incidence in rural industries will also be significantly reduced. There will be some sort of crisis which will have to be faced up to by the Treasurer. Where will he get the money in the next 12 months to run the programs which have an inbuilt expansionary aspect? It can only be from further deficit financing of the economy over this period. The Australian people will not be faced with a Government which is prepared to offer restraint and to put the policies which should result in the economy being put back on to a more stable footing. The Government will continue to print the money and to run the economy in order to appease its constituents. Any meaningful economic program in this country or in any country implies a control over the money supply. It implies a control over the increase in Government spending and some control over the increase in the tax burden which accrues to the Government as a result of the built-in inflation in that system. 
These are difficult times. But this Government is creating a rod for its own back. It is looking around for excuses. The excuses are not there. It must be prepared to accept the responsibility for its actions. It must accept the results of the policies which it has been responsible for introducing. The Government has failed to learn from the experience of the last 2!6 years it has been in power. There is no indication that it is prepared to change its heart and to introduce a Budget later this year or to introduce Supply and Appropriation Bills at this time which give indications to the Australian people that there is an air of responsibility about the economic management of this country. We have noticed in the economy a significant collapse in private investment, in new investment and in capital investment. This has been largely brought about because of the uncertainty about where the Government is taking our economy. 
Nobody, whether he be a steel manufacturer, a small factory owner, a primary producer or a shopkeeper, is prepared or indeed able to commit himself for new expenditure and new investment when he does not know from day to day or from month to month, because of the economic climate, over what period he will be able to depreciate that asset. He does not know what will be the likely effect of other Government policies on his operations. This uncertainty is something which must be removed. Guidelines must be put down and guaranteed over a period so that industry knows where it stands and so that people will be able to invest with confidence. Interest rates have been extremely high and nobody is able to guarantee that new investment which has been financed by money at high rates of interest will be able to earn at a rate sufficient to cover that interest. In industry money has been tied up in stocks which have been building up because of the slow-down in the economy and, until recently, the lack of desire on the part of consumers and manufacturers to spend. We have been through a period of profitless prosperity, and that has been followed by our entry into a severe recession. The Treasurer's belated recognition of private enterprise and the need for profit to fuel growth and activity is recognised. However, the Government's actions do not bear out the stated philosophy of the Treasurer. 
The Government's measures have brought about the problems, but they have done nothing to remedy them. There have been a few palliatives, such as the reduction in company tax by 2'/2 per cent and the increase in the depreciation rates over a short term. But those palliatives are by no means sufficient to enable industry to have the confidence it needs to invest and to prime the economy in the way in which it ought to be primed. The Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  told the House this afternoon that the Regional Employment Development scheme has been a significant factor in the Government's stimulation of the economy. The RED scheme in fact is an artificial scheme. It is not bringing about stimulation in the economy in those areas where it is needed. The only solution for Australia today is to prime private enterprise and private industry so that they may invest and pick up the slack that exists in the economy. The Government and the Treasurer stand condemned for their mismanagement of the economy- an economy which should be going from strength to strength. It is apparent that the Treasurer is a man who listens to the person who spoke to him last. 
I rise tonight to add something further to the debate on Vietnam and the situation which exists in that tragic country at the moment. This Government is not doing all it should be doing to alleviate the human suffering which is being experienced in South Vietnam and Cambodia. I urge the Government to do everything in its power to see that an international presence is maintained in those Communist controlled areas of Vietnam and Cambodia to ensure that a level of sense is made to prevail, particularly in the case of the political situation that will follow the military situation that exists at the moment. Australia presently has diplomatic representation in Hanoi and Hanoi has diplomatic representation in Australia. The Australian Broadcasting Commission news tonight reported that the Australian Government has already recognised the Khmer Rouge, which has now taken control in Cambodia. The government with Prince Sihanouk as its titular head seems to be in control of that country at the moment and Australia, within hours, has recognised it. But we have that representation with Cambodia and tomorrow the Ambassador who has formerly represented the Lon Nol Government, will raise the flag of the Sihanouk Government in Canberra, and a representative of the Australian Government should be on his doorstep when he opens for business tomorrow morning. The Australian Government should be there to seek an international presence in Cambodia. 
In the interests of humanity, it is important that there be international supervision and control in those areas which are now under communist control. At the moment a military situation exists and obviously tragedy and human suffering surround that situation. Unnecessary slaughter is going on on a large scale in those communist controlled areas and in the areas that are under military dispute. A political situation will follow the military situation. We are experiencing now the tragedy of war and we will be experiencing soon the tragedy of what will be called a peace. At the moment we have the problem of war orphans, of those who are suffering and of those who are seeking to leave those areas which are under communist control. We recently saw the situation in Da Nang where thousands and thousands of orphans and potential refugees were allowed to die while waiting for their allies, as they thought them to be, who failed to go and get them- who let them down in their most desperate hour of need. The air forces of Australia and of some of our other allies have been prevented from going into that war torn area to bring out the people who are the innocent victims of the crisis. We seem to have an air force which will not go anywhere where it might be put at risk. I put it to honourable members that in these circumstances one has to be prepared to accept losses if one is to be able to offer any significant assistance at all. 
The tragedy of the peace- the so-called peace- that will follow the wave of military activity which is now taking place is something which concerns me greatly. In 1955, after the Geneva Accords of 1954 during the 300-day cease fire and after that cease fire, the world saw the greatest slaughter that has ever been seen in a situation of that nature. 
In 1955-56 the North Vietnamese engaged in a program of land reform. In North Vietnam then a wealthy landholder was one who had perhaps three or four acres, and there was a need to satisfy the supporters of the North Vietnamese regime and to provide them with land. What was done in that country was a disgrace. Kangaroo courts were set up by local people who were prepared to stand up and swear crimes against those landholders who held those small acreages in that country. They trumped up charges against them and had them executed. The estimates of those executed range in number from a minimum of 15 000 to in excess of 100 000. That was done by a government which is still the government in control of those areas of North Vietnam and which is behind the Vietcong who are pushing down further and further into South Vietnam. That is the Government which is being supported by the Whitlam administration in Australia today. That is the Government which we are not allowed to offend. That is the Government with which we must be more than evenhanded in our international dealings. 
The situation of countless thousands of people being slaughtered in the past will obviously occur again under the same administration. Australia has a responsibility as a country which has representation at the United Nations, in North Vietnam as well as in the new Cambodian regime of the Khmer Rouge and Prince Sihanouk, to see that it does what it can to establish an international presence in those countries, to see that the Red Cross organisation is there, that United Nations representatives are there and that peacekeeping forces are in those countries and in the troubled areas during the period of what will be termed peace- and peace it will be indeed. I suggest more people will be slaughtered in that political settlement that will follow the military situation than there have been slaughtered in the military forays that have been occurring in the last 20 years. 
We will see a revolution of monumental proportions in what we now know to be South Vietnam. This Government has a responsibility to go into those areas and to do everything it can in the international forums to see that this does not happen. The Iron Curtain will be brought down, the journalists will be put out and wholesale slaughters will take place. We will not know about this until years to come when the news will filter through to the free world. We have to see that this does not happen. This is a situation in which humanity is concerned and where individual liberty is at stake. If this Government is prepared to stand up and support these sorts of principles it has to go out into the world forums and argue for them and fight for them. We have to support the United States and the  President  in his present efforts to see that the American presence is maintained and that American aid continues. We have to see that these people are not allowed to be shut behind an iron curtain and subjected to wholesale massacre and slaughter. 
The instances that I spoke of earlier of the land reform that took place in North Vietnam will be repeated. It is this Government's responsibility to see that we do not allow it to happen. The ambassador who formerly represented Lon Nol in Australia will be opening up under a new flag tomorrow morning. The Department of Foreign Affairs should be on his doorstep at 9 a.m. putting the Australian Government view, which the Australian people support, that we should be providing in Phnom Penh at the moment international forces which will supervise what will be called the peace, the international presence which will see that wholesale slaughter is not allowed to continue. 
We have to see that this Government takes a much more rational approach to the whole question of what is happening in the South East Asian forum at the moment. Our  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  is prepared to make public statements in support of a government which is in the history books as one which has carried out wholesale slaughter. Members of that government are Stalinists and they operate on the same principle that Stalin used in the purges in Russia. The land reforms and the slaughter that were involved in that situation in 1955 and 1956 should open the eyes of Australians and the world to the type of administration that is in control in that country. 
Before my time expires I make this final plea. Australia should do everything it can in the world forums, in the United Nations and in the South East Asia forums to which we have access, to see that it plays its part in maintaining a presence to ensure that the innocent people in South Vietnam and Cambodia are not subjected to wholesale massacre and slaughter such as occurred after the Geneva Accords of 1955-1956. 
-The legislation that is being considered by the House is not complex and, as indicated by the honourable member for McPherson  (Mr Eric Robinson),  it has the general support of the Opposition. An amendment will be moved in the Committee stage and that amendment will have my support. It has been pointed out by previous speakers that the concept of a grants commission goes back some 40 years and that over that period the Grants Commission has served a very valuable purpose in applying funds to certain States to ensure that those States did not operate at standards much below the standards that could be achieved in the more wealthy States. I think that has been a very valuable contribution made by this Commission to life in Australia. Last year the Government decided to extend the role of the Commission to the area of local government. This was a departure from previous practice and it has met with differing reactions. In the report of the Grants Commission last year, an amount of $56m was recommended for distribution to nearly all of the 900 local government bodies in Australia. Some councils did not receive any money; but, by and large, money went to most of these organisations. 
The point that interests me in relation to the Grants Commission is this: Is this the right method of going about local government financing? A situation exists in Australia today where $56m has been allocated in the current financial year by the Federal Government for distribution to local government organisations under section 96 of the Constitution. It is an ad hoc payment of money and it is something which is not guaranteed in future years. In local government areas significant problems are occurring. Savage reductions are being made in the amounts of income available to local organisations, particularly shires, which are virtually dependent on allocations of road construction funds for their operations. If those allocations are cut, then the shires face serious difficulties in maintaining their work forces and in maintaining the standards in their areas. Similar problems arise in municipal councils. There have been reductions of moneys allocated from various sources and these moneys have been replaced by ad hoc payments. We have the Grants Commission in the first instance, and under the generous hand of the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  the Regional Employment Development scheme has blossomed and is providing vast amounts of money to local government, also in questionable circumstances. The Federal Government also has introduced the area improvement program. A part of my electorate is covered by a pilot scheme under that program. Similarly, the Riverina region is a pilot area for the Australian Assistance Plan, and parts of my electorate are involved in that proposal. 
The point I wish to raise in this debate is that these ad hoc payments which are being made to councils are making it impossible for them to plan. There is no guarantee of any continuity. A proposal is put forward and it is either accepted or not accepted. The resulting payment to councils may be made this month, but from then on no money may be received. In my view, local government is becoming an indirect arm of the Federal Government. Under section 96 of the Constitution, the Federal Government is using local government as an agent in the implementation of certain Federal programs. I think it is fanto say that local government is being used to a large extent in this area. The uncertainty which faces councils on the question of where thenfunds are coming from is serious. I do not think we can allow to continue indefinitely a situation in which the pressure that is applied to councils as elected bodies to keep rates down can be offset by funds coming from sources which are other than assured and definite. The situation is now arising in certain local government areas in which councils are deferring programs or projects in the hope that under the RED scheme or some other program a grant might be approved which will save those councils expending thenown funds and allow them to provide a facility that might be needed in the town at no cost to the areas themselves. This is another example of the way in which local government bodies have had their whole system of operations fragmented and to a large extent overturned. 
-Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  There is no doubt in my mind that, in the absence of guaranteed finance for local government authorities, the Grants Commission is in fact something for which we are to be thankful. I support the provision contained in this legislation for the appointment of an additional member to the Commission in order to make the work load of the Commission somewhat more even, and to enable it to undertake the massive task of interviewing the 900-odd local government bodies throughout Australia and finding out exactly what are their needs. 
I raised the point earlier that I do not consider this method to be necessarily the right method of doing so. It is in relation to that aspect that I have been speaking. I am concerned about the growing dependence of local government on the Federal Government. The Grants Commission will be perhaps seeking to expand that. There is no doubt that the aim of the Government is to regionalise areas of local administration in the 
States. What concerns me is that a governmentany government- is likely at some stage to withdraw its support for local government through the Grants Commission, through the RED scheme and through other schemes and to reallocate those funds on a regional basis. We are building up a system in which local government is becoming totally dependent - 
-Speaking in the debate on Vietnam in this House on 8 April the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  stated: 
For 20 years there has been a kind of tragic inevitability about the events now taking place. The great chance, the great opportunity, for a political settlement, for peace throughout Indo-China, was given in 1954 by the Geneva Agreements. The chance was lost; the opportunity was thrown away. The Geneva Agreements provided the 2 basic ingredients for a political settlement- re-unification after free elections. If such elections had been held they would almost certainly have resulted in the power over a unified Vietnam under Ho Chi Minn. Rather than face this prospect the regime in Saigon, urged on by the then United States Administration, refused to hold elections. 
I believe there were other significant factors which operated in Vietnam at that time. I want to draw the attention of the House to some of the circumstances. I intend to quote from 3 separate sources on the subject. These are authorities which have been constantly cited by the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  in his writings on Vietnam. Fear was the trump card held by Ho Chi Minh. The proposal that free elections could be held was a farce. Who would have been prepared to stand for election with the knowledge that if the other side won he would almost certainly be eliminated? The ruthless methods of Ho Chi Minh are well documented and leave no doubt about the fear which existed in Vietnam in 1955 and 1956. Bernard Fall, in his book 'The Two Viet-Nams' states that 860 000 people fled from the north to the south at this time. What of those who stayed? In Fall's book on the subject of land reform he wrote: 
One of the most difficult problems of the consolidation period (19SS-S8) was that of land reform. As already has been pointed out, this reform in North Vietnam was not so much designed to establish a more equitable land distribution pattern (since land was by and large held by its tillers) as to become a key vehicle for social change . . . The first step in the reform process was a 'Population Classification Decree', issued on March 2, 1953, which, according to its own preamble, made it possible to 'distinguish our compatriots (from each other), to separate our friends from our enemies, (and) permit the unification and direct the struggle in the sense we want '. 
These formulas established the social 'rank' or 'class' of the individual, with the whole population of the D.R.V.N. classified into five categories, ranging from 'landlord' to 'agricultural worker'. 
With the extreme narrow-mindedness that seems to be the hallmark of the Viet-Minh low-level cadre (can-bo), the decree was applied throughout the D.R.V.N. with utmost ferocity. Local Party officials began to 'deliver' veritable quotas of landlords and rich peasants even in areas where the difference between the largest and the smallest village plots was a quarter-acre. Special 'People's Agricultural Reform Tribunals' began to mete out death sentences to individuals who in any case were not landlords, and who in many cases had loyally served in the war against France or had even been members of the Lao-Dong. By the summer of 1 956, the Lao-Dong was for the first time confronted with a severe internal crisis: A menace to life and property from whose arbitrariness no one any longer felt safe produced a wave of disobedience and outright hatred for the Party cadres throughout the country. While it is obviously impossible to give precise figures, the best-educated guesses on the subject are that probably close to 50 000 North Vietnamese were executed in connection with the land reform and that at least twice as many were arrested and sent to forced labor camps. 
Joseph Buttinger records the atrocities of the land reforms in his book 'Vietnam: A Dragon Embattled. Volume 2 Vietnam at War'. He states: 
Nothing in the history of Communist persecutions can equal the scheme contrived in North Vietnam to get rid of as many peasants as possible who owned more than 2 or 3 acres of land. As a prelude to the ugly spectacle of publicly trying and punishing these people, a hate-campaign was organised among the poor against the 'rich', under the direction of specially trained Party cadres. Trial and punishment were not left to existing qualified courts but to People's Agricultural Reform Tribunals created for this purpose. They consisted of all the poor and landless of a village, and the trials became mass meetings dominated by people whose chances of obtaining land increased with every new conviction. This entailed classifying as many landowners as possible as landlords and rich peasants, and finding as many as possible guilty of crimes against the people and the state. But the trouble was that the North had always had few real landlords, and most of these had long been expropriated as 'traitors'. More than 60 per cent of all land was in the hands of peasants owning around 1 acre, and the number of 'rich peasants' was bound to be small, unless those with 2-3 acres were classified as 'rich'. There was an embarrassing dearth of landlords. In many regions, therefore, the cadres could deliver the necessary quota of victims to the Agricultural Reform Tribunals only by promoting owners of as little as 2-4 acres to the status of 'landlords'. And in order to obtain enough sentences, either to prison or forced labor or death, crimes had to be invented and charges leveled, even against people who had always supported the Vietminh. There were of course many landowners who had cruelly exploited and mistreated the poor, but the Party was not interested in justice. Its aim was the eradication of a social class, and to this end it mobilized hate and greed, and the desire for personal vengeance. The entire procedure was designed not only to gain enough land to make distribution worth while, but also to make the poor peasants and the landless accomplices of the regime in the crimes committed against the ' rich '. 
The land reform exercise spread fear of possible control by the North in Vietnam. Diem knew that this was no atmosphere for elections. In no way could elections held in such a climate be regarded as free. I wish to quote now from an article by Philippe Devillers 
That is all right. The article appeared in a publication entitled 'North Vietnam Today' which is edited by  Mr P.  J. Honey.  Mr Devillers  stated: 
By taking up the Communist challenge, by coldly refusing to lend himself to the electoral game provided for at Geneva, Diem had clearly freed the Southern populace from the fear complex which had been Hanoi's master card. The dangerous cape of the summer of 1956 was weathered calmly, without incident to the astonishment of almost everyone. Diem 's position was futher consolidated the following autumn by the public revelation of the terror reigning in the North, by Giap's own recognition of the 'errors' committed in the course of agrarian reform, and of the cruelties which had accompanied it. 
The sources that I have quoted state clearly the methods of the North- the same North that is steadily occupying the South at this moment. These sources are also quoted by the  Deputy  Prime Minister quite freely in his writings. The Prime Minister, with the resources of government at his disposal, has not given the full story on the circumstances existing in Vietnam in 1955 and 1956. 1 want to put these facts to the House and to point out in so doing the calibre of the people who are in control in North Vietnam- the Government which is favoured by the Whitlam Labor Government in Australia, a government that we as a nation are not permitted to offend. 
-Will the Prime Minister put on public display all of the gifts received by himself and his wife on all his overseas trips to date? Will he say whether he regards these gifts as belonging to himself personally or to Australia? 
I have not risen previously to speak during the Committee stage of the debate. I think I made my position quite clear during the second reading debate. I want to speak to this clause because I think it is important. I support the amendment which has been moved by the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  In my view this Parliament has downgraded marriage. It is my intention not to vote to support the downgrading of women. I think this is something which is completely separate in this clause. In my view the fact that marriage can be dissolved after 12 months is something which the majority of members of this Parliament wanted. I rather hope that the majority of members of this Parliament are prepared to vote in favour of this amendment to ensure, if in fact there is some doubt about it, as I believe there is, the rights and the protection of women under this new Family Law Bill. I commend the amendment to the Committee and I entreat all honourable members to take it very seriously. 
-I direct my question to the Acting Treasurer. Will he confirm that all trading losses borne by the Australian Wool Corporation are funded by woolgrowers from the 5 per cent levy on wool sales? Can he give the House an estimate of the loss which would be incurred on the 1.6 million bales presently in the stockpile and which would be funded by the woolgrowers? Would that loss amount to about $75m? 
-I should like to refer briefly to clause 3 of the Bill which relates to the definition of maximum retiring age. I ask the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  to explain the definition to the House in the light of what he has just said. The definition of 'retiring age ' in the Bill states:   in relation to a person who is, or has been, an eligible employee, means the age of 60 years or such lesser age . . . 
That to me implies that that is the maximum age. It is not the minimum age. I would be grateful if the Minister would clarify that particular point. 
-This is quite a crucial clause in the whole framework of this Bill. I think it needs to be said that the Public Service itself has to realise what the implications of this provision are. The Opposition's proposed amendment will provide public servants with a far better scheme than that to which they are subscribing at the moment and if the Government is allowed to introduce the proposals in this legislation it can only be done at a cost. I think it must be understood by everybody that if this provision is introduced the extra cost that is part and parcel of it must be reflected in the Government 's program and will also be reflected in the higher taxation that public servants and everybody else in the community will have to pay. I think that this is a point that must be brought home when we are considering this clause. There can be little doubt that there is justification for upgrading the Commonwealth superannuation scheme. The amendment that has been proposed to this clause would certainly improve it. But the Service itself and the Government should be aware that there must be a cost attached to the provision of any improved benefit and the cost of that will have to be borne. I submit that, when taxation rates are increased and when taxation collections are increased, this legislation will have been a part of the cause of that action. 
-The honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Riordan)  comes back into the chamber with his weak and soppy arguments to try to put the Opposition under some sort of threat of what may or may not happen in the other place. There is no dispute- it has previously been said in the debate- that the schemes of the State governments to which the honourable member has referred have been introduced in anticipation of this scheme being implemented by this Government. If these proposals had not been put forward by this Government, those schemes would not have been introduced in the States. 
The fact is that a significant proportion of public servants are still employed in the Commomwealth Public Service. The cost of this proposal which will provide an increase of 414 per cent in the present widow's pension will be $138m. Every day, the honourable member for Phillip comes in here whingeing about where cuts are to be made, where expenditure will be saved and asking what the Opposition would do. I put it to the honourable member that what the Government ought to do to be responsible is to consider making cuts in the proposals that are in the Bill. 
What the BUI proposes is more than generous. These proposals are far and away better than anything honourable members Will find provided in public enterprise. Yet this Government proposes to spend $ 1 3 8m to provide through this legislation payments over and above what can be regarded as being fair, adequate and reasonable. This proposal will add to the budgetary problems that the Government has already. It will add to the taxation bill that the nation as a whole will have to meet. It will add to government expenditure. It will add to every conceivable thing . The Government must take a responsible approach to the way in which it presents legislation. By its action, the Government is dangling a carrot in front of private employees in this country. This will cause industrial unrest- that is what this legislation will lead to- because people in private industry Will say: 'We want what they get in Canberra'. The way to cause that reaction is demonstrated in this clause where $ 138m in expenditure Will be required to meet a one-line provision in the Bill. 
Do not talk to me about capital costs. This money will come out of Con.solidated Revenue in the next Budget for the financial year 1975-76. It Will come from taxpayers' money; there is no dispute about that at all. 
It will be a good clause if the Opposition's amendments are agreed to. I believe that public servants would be perfectly content with the provisions that are in the amendments that the Opposition is putting forward. Members of the Public Service are entitled to a superannuation scheme, but as has been pointed out several times in this debate- this is the crux of the Opposition's argument- there are bad flaws in the present superannuation scheme and members of the Public Service are entitled to major improvements in that scheme. What we propose by our amendments is a scheme which would be infinitely better than the scheme which now operates. The Government is trying to go even further than what the Opposition would like to see in respect of this scheme. The Government is being irresponsible. We are not being obstructive. We are being reasonable. 
As I have already pointed out, $138m will be required by the provisions of clause 83. A great deal could be done in this country if that $ 138m were allocated to other areas. An awful lot could be done with that money. The next time honourable members opposite talk in this place about where to cut expenditure and how the devil to do something about the $3,000m deficit, let them cast their minds back to the extravagances of this legislation. 
-Along with the Opposition, I am not going to support the legislation as it has been introduced into this chamber. It seems to me that some problems certainly exist in the Commonwealth superannuation scheme as it now stands and that there is plenty of scope for improvement in the scheme. To my mind the benefits provided under the existing scheme are quite satisfactory. Problems arise when contributions in the latter stages of a public servant's career become quite unbalanced. There is also no provision for a lump sum payment on the retirement of a member of the Public Service. I believe that these are aspects of the current scheme which could stand scrutiny and which could be improved. Any moves to improve these aspects would certainly be supported by the Opposition. 
We are looking at a Bill which has been based to some extent on the report of Professor Pollard and  Mr Melville.  The Government has not accepted the report in its entirety. To my mind it has taken the parts of the recommended scheme which appear to be more generous and has left out the parts of the recommendations by the actuaries which would have sought to have brought some moderation into the scheme. There can be little doubt that this scheme will be a pace setter. Despite what may have been said by other honourable members on the Government side in this debate that it would not be a pace setter, we have it from the mouth of the Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  that in fact it would be. 
It has been put that some of the State schemes which have been referred to in this chamber today have been brought in in anticipation of the scheme which is being debated in this chamber at the moment and that, had this scheme not been proposed, the States would not have taken the steps which they have taken in respect of their own superannuation schemes. This scheme will pose significant problems for the private sector of the economy. In this Bill we are talking about 250 000 public servants. A considerably greater percentage of the work force is engaged in private enterprise and private employment. It is those people who will have a carrot dangled in front of their noses in the form of this scheme. 
Without any doubt, it would be the most attractive scheme operating in this economy for a significant number of members of the work force. About 250 000 people would benefit from the provisions of this scheme. I do not believe one should argue that the Defence Force Retirement Benefits scheme or the Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits scheme are better than this one and, therefore, the rest of the Public Service should be brought up to that standard. I believe that the arguments for the DFRB and the DFRDB schemes are valid. Those men were prepared to put their lives on the line for this country. As a result, I believe that they are entitled to some extra consideration from the community. I do not think that there is any resentment towards the serving men who gain a benefit which is in excess of what would normally be regarded as reasonable in the community. 
Reference has also been made to the parliamentary pensions scheme. I do not mind saying that I would be prepared to swap my security for the security of some of the beneficiaries under the scheme that is being debated at the moment. Without doubt, the scheme before the House is an over-generous scheme. It will put pressure to a large extent on private enterprise, particularly at a time when private enterprise is not able to afford those pressures. It is a difficult time for industry, when inflation is running at extremely high rates, when investment is running down and when people are being laid off to try to maintain the bare existence of corporations, companies and businesses. It is a time when profits are being squeezed, when Government policies are applying pressures which have hitherto not been experienced in that sector. At the same time to impose upon the private sector a requirement to compete with another major sector of the economy in a fashion such as is laid down in the provisions of this legislation I think is totally uncalled for in the present climate. 
A series of relative standards of retirement benefits under different types of superannuation schemes has been drawn up. I think it is worth taking a few minutes of the time of the House to run through some of these standards and to see where the proposed Commonwealth scheme stands in relation to those standards. Under the different schemes the retiring age varies from 60, 62, 63 to 65. Those are the generally accepted retiring ages under differing schemes which are in operation in the community. The greatest number of people who are covered by these schemes retire at the age of 65, and some at 63. Where does the Commonwealth's scheme stand in this respect? It stands at the top of the list, in position No. 1 , with a retiring age of 60. 
The standard of maximum pension formula ranges from 55 per cent plus 20 per cent for 40 years service down to 50 per cent for 40 years service with differing standards in the middle such as 66% per cent for 40 years service and 60 per cent for 40 years service. Again the Commonwealth comes at the top of the list. Three different standards of salary for pension determination have been used in the example I am looking at. They are the final year's salary, the average of the last 3 years and the average of the last 5 years. Most of the people covered in private funds have their pension determination based on the average salary of the last 5 years, but the Commonwealth's scheme works on the basis of the final year's salary. The list goes on to updating for the cost of living. There again the Commonwealth's scheme is the best scheme available. The standards range from automatic consumer price index adjustments to adjustments with certain percentage maxima for any one year, to ad hoc yearly increases or ad hoc increases on a 3-yearly basis. 
I do not intend to argue in this debate that the public servants are not entitled to a good and satisfactory retirement scheme. There can be no doubt that they are entitled to it. We in this House are familiar with a large number of dedicated public servants who serve this chamber. I think that those men and their colleagues are certainly entitled to a good scheme. I have been a public servant myself and I have certainly been impressed with the dedication of a large number of public servants. The argument is not about whether or not these people are entitled to an adequate superannuation scheme; the argument is about the cost to the community of an over-generous scheme, the cost to private industry of a pace setter scheme being brought into operation. Nobody denies that public servants are entitled to a first rate scheme. They are, but they are not entitled to a scheme such as that proposed in this legislation whereby, on any standard at which one chooses to look, the Public Service scheme shapes up as being the best of any comparable scheme that is available. It is a scheme in relation to which the Government has not accepted, as it tends to do in other instances, in toto a report which has been submitted to it. It has selected from the report those provisions which are most acceptable to the Public Service and has rejected other parts of the report which have not been acceptable. 
I have in front of me a communication from the Professional Officers' Association of the Commonwealth Public Service dated 20 September 1974, which is about 8 or 9 months ago. The Association was putting forward an argument in favour of the proposed scheme. It said that the Treasurer's proposals do 4 separate things: 
Simplify and rearrange the scheme for existing contributors tothe Superannuation Scheme. 
Provide for current contributors to the Provident Account to be admitted to 'The Treasurer's Superannuation Scheme'. 
Extend the scope of eligibility to include more temporary employees. 
Extend the scheme to Semi-Government establishments not currently included in the present Superannuation Scheme. 
Nobody would dispute those principles or guidelines. They are agreeable. The dispute arises on meeting the situation that is arrived at. The Professional Officers' Association give some comments on these 6 recommendations of Melville and Pollard. The Association lists all the recommendations and states that after detailed study it regards all these 6 recommendations as being unacceptable. It did not like any of them. Yet, the Government is going to introduce some of the measures and we, as an Opposition, are suggesting that others be introduced. But it seems to me that the Professional Officers' Association was not happy with the situation that the Government is putting forward in this Bill. 
-Perhaps they are. It is time that people in this country came to realise that there is a limit on the amount that can be offered to any sector- 
-I will tell the honourable member a thing or two about wool growers, because the wool growers are in a position in which they are prepared- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MartinOrder! Interjections will cease. 

-The Government is faced with a massive budgetary problem. During the months of June and July when the Parliament is in recess the Cabinet will be meeting in Canberra to thrash out what the size of the deficit for 1975-76 will be. The Government will have to take a rational approach to what it will do with the limited amount of resources that are available to it. That is exactly what the 27 Ministers that the Labor Party has elected will be doing during the Cabinet discussions on the Budget in July. The Government has a situation before it in which it has an ideal opportunity to update the present superannuation scheme to provide the 250 000 Commonwealth public servants with a better than adequate scheme without going overboard in so doing. Yet, the Government has opted to go overboard with these proposals. As a result the scheme that has been proposed under this legislation will cost literally hundreds of millions of dollars more than is necessary. 
It is right. This has been documented in the report of Melville and Pollard. There is no dispute about this. Yet, when the Budget is introduced the Government will say that it is prepared to cut down on expenditure in other directions. It was not prepared to support the wool price. The Government is not prepared to do other things unless they are forced upon it. But the Government is prepared literally to throw away hundreds of millions of dollars in a way that is not necessary. All I am doing is suggesting to the Government that it should give some consideration to restraint in this situation. The Government is calling on everybody to show restraint and it ought to start showing this restraint in regard to its own officers. There is no question about this. 
The Opposition will put forward an amendment that the retirement age for public servants should be at 65 years. As we understand the position at the moment, 40 per cent of public servants pay higher contributions to have the option to retire at the age of 60 years and 60 per cent of the contributors currently retire at the age of 65 years. It has been put forward that the cost of the benefits to retire at the age of 60 years is 30 per cent more than it costs to retire at age 65 years. The report of the Hancock Committee on national superannuation, which the Government commissioned, agreed that, based on cost and based on social grounds, 65 years of age was the proper age at which members of the community in general could be expected to retire. If it is good enough for Hancock and the rest of the community, why is not it good enough for public servants? Sixty per cent of them are perfectly happy to retire at 65 years of age now and there are some who are prepared to pay a significantly high amount in order to retire earlier for some private reasons. Yet, the Government is not prepared to be consistent in the application of a principle as to the retiring age. 
That is true. I may as well draw the attention of the House to that interjection. The honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan)  has said that it is a political gimmick. The Government is advancing this proposal because it knows that the Opposition will not be able to support it as a responsible Opposition. The Government knows that we will be forced to vote against it. Therefore, the Government will be solidifying and strengthening the support that it receives from the Public Service organisations. I say that it is very difficult to refute that argument. We have a situation in which Melville and Pollard recommended against the consumer price index adjustments in regard to superannuation payments. The Opposition will move an amendment to the legislation to provide that the CPI adjustment will apply only on the Government portion of the pension. This is another area in which the Government has chosen not to accept the report as it has been put to it. The Government has taken parts of it. I submit to the Government that the parts that it has taken and accepted have been the parts which have tended to be more generous rather than less generous. 
I will not detain the House any longer. I know that there are other honourable members who would like to speak in the debate in the brief time that is available. I submit that the Opposition has no objection to public servants in general and any public servant in particular being adequately catered for in terms of retirement provisions. We have no argument about that. The dispute that this debate revolves around is the dispute about the over-generosity of the provisions of the legislation that is under debate at the moment. This is simply the point at issue. We have a responsibility as an Opposition to see that the Government it not allowed to make payments to run to excess. That is why the amendments which the Opposition proposes to move in the Committee stage will be moved. I will support them. 
Will the Minister for Social Security give the House the latest estimate by his Department of the cost of Medibank? Will he say whether this estimate includes hospital participation in Medibank by all States? Will he also inform the House whether the cost estimate includes the administrative costs of Medibank? 
-The legislation that we are considering at present relates to the continuation of the 5 per cent levy on sales of wool for the next season. It is all tied up with the fiasco over the floor price which was decided upon by Cabinet only about 10 days ago and which was overturned a week ago by the Caucus. I think last week's fiasco over the wool price showed the Australian rural community just how much consideration they are being given by the Government. If it had not been for the economic sense that was apparently argued in the Caucus and which resulted in a defeat for the Ministry, wool growers would have been left with 200c as the wool price support level. 
Since the election of this Labor Government in December 1972, the primary industries have borne the brunt of the change in priorities and the redistribution of the nation's wealth. A long list of hard-won incentives and productivity policies have been withdrawn. The currency was revalued to such an extent that our export commodities are extremely difficult to sell on overseas markets. The Government's wages policy has been a prime reason for the rise in farm costs of over 35 per cent in the last 12 months. It has long been apparent that there is little sympathy within the Government towards the primary producing sector, but the decision to cut the wool floor price by 20 per cent to 200c a clean kilogram came as a complete shock. 
Over recent months the wool market had shown healthy signs of improvement. The price had risen to above 275c, well above the floor price, and the Australian Wool Corporation had not been required to buy more than a few per cent of offerings at these recent auctions. For the first time since the early 1970s, the prospects for wool looked reasonable. Regardless of the reversal of the Cabinet decision to drop the floor price, a great deal of damage has been done. Australia 's credibility as a stable supplier of wool has been damaged. The world's buyers of wool now know that the Australian Government is in two minds over the support that should be made available to this industry. 
It is trite perhaps to say that stability of price is the key to the future success of the wool industry, and as a result of the decision by the Cabinet and the subsequent reversal by the Caucus, the wool sold at the next sale fell by 8c a clean kilogram. The fact that it did not fall further was an indication of the underlying strength that exists in the market, but it has certainly given the confidence of the buyers of the Australian wool clip a severe shake. It was not more than a couple of weeks ago that the Minister for Agriculture (SenatorWreidt) was saying that he was concerned that the price of wool was going to go through the roof again, that this would be a bad thing for the industry, and that what was important was stability. Yet, within days he was confronted with a Cabinet decision which was going to drop the support price for wool overnight by 20 per cent. 
I believe that it will take some time to overcome the Government's expressed lack of confidence in the wool industry. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has refused on 2 occasions to make an unequivocal statement that his Government will continue to support wool at 250c. The only conclusion that can be drawn from this refusal by the Prime Minister is that next year we will experience a similar argument and more lack of decision when the support level for the following season is to be set. Last season the Government agreed to provide $150m to enable the Australian Wool Corporation to support the price of wool at 250c. 
This money was made available to finance the stockpile- that is, the Corporation's purchasesthat was necessary to stop wool falling below 250c. At the same time the Government legislated for a levy of 5 per cent of the gross value of wool sold to be paid into a market support fund. In the financial year 1974-75 this levy amounts to about $40m. As the market continued to be depressed during the year a further $200m was allocated by the Government to the Corporation to continue to support wool at 250c a kilo. This brought the Government's commitment to $350m. The significant points are that the $3 50m provided by the Government is a loan to the Wool Corporation. Interest is charged on that loan at 1 1 per cent per annum and in a full year the interest bill would amount to $38.5m. 
I refer honourable members to the fact that the 5 per cent levy is expected to raise only $40m. So the bulk of that money will go in interest in any case. It is good to see the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson),  who represents the Minister for Agriculture, come back into the chamber to participate in this debate, a debate which is of vital importance to the wool industry and a debate which he has totally boycotted to date. 
He was gagged by his own Party. The losses, if there are any, plus the interest and storage charges are met by the growers themselves out of the 5 per cent levy on wool sales. The Government is not at risk with any of its money. It is secured by the stockpile and all losses and charges are paid for by the growers. These are the facts. The Government is not making a grant to the industry; it is involved in a normal business transaction and it is being paid interest at commercial rates with full security for its loan. In fact, the Corporation would have preferred to borrow the money from the banks but the Government would not agree to that. The industry owns the stock-pile; the Government does not own it. The industry will bear any losses incurred or benefit from any profit that might be made. It is important that these facts be understood. 
At present about 1.6 million bales are in the stockpile. The cost of acquisition of that stockpile is of the order of $360m. If the price of wool had been allowed to fall to 200c a kilo the industry would have suffered a loss of about $75m arising from the reduction of the value of the stockpile. This Government should realise that it is dealing with Australia's largest industry, one which is still one of our largest exporters. Such an industry deserves better treatment than that shown by the irresponsible attitude taken by the Cabinet last week. The effects, not only on the industry itself but also on the country towns that depend directly or indirectly on a profitable wool industry, would have been disastrous if the Cabinet's proposal were agreed to. The Opposition is not opposing these Bills that are before the House, but we take this opportunity to draw to the attention of the Government the implications of the irresponsible actions that were taken a week ago and to impress upon the Government the importance of maintaining stability in the price of wool. This great industry should not be allowed to go to the wall. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bills together read a second time. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1) With reference to the Women and Politics Conference, what was the total cost to the Government of the Conference. 
What was the cost of travel and expenses of visiting speakers and guests of the Conference. 
How many papers were submitted for delivery at the Conference and who submitted them. 
What are the names of those who were selected to deliver papers to the Conference. 
-The Australian Labor Government recently passed its first 1000 days in office- 1000 days and 1000 nights. There can be little doubt that the 1000 nights were the occasion for 1000 nightmares for the majority of the people of Australia. Having achieved 1000 days I think it is fair and the time is right that we try to put into perspective some of the actions and some of the policies of this Government. This Government came to office in December 1972. It promptly moved to revalue the Australian currency. It promptly moved unilaterally to slice 25 per cent off the tariffs that operate in this country with disastrous effects both internally and externally. This decision was unilaterally taken to the detriment of Australia's position in organisations such as the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade and the multilateral trade negotiations. This Government went to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission supporting large increases in wages in the national wage case. It used the Public Service as a pacesetter. It supported huge wage rises in the Public Service. It introduced 4 weeks leave, a system of maternity and paternity leave, a 17&amp; per cent leave loading and flexitime. It is now putting forward proposals for a new superannuation scheme. 
All of these actions have been taken by the Government by using the Public Service as a vehicle. They have added significantly to the cost of Australian industry and of the private sector in this country and have raised the standard beyond that which can reasonably be afforded. The Government introduced the report of the Coombs Task Force shortly after it came to office, and before its first Budget, which deliberately set out to destroy the worthwhile things that had been set up over a generation. It destroyed the incentives which were made available to industries to produce and to improve their productivity and to add to the tax base that the Government has at its disposal to carry out the works that the community needs. The Government changed the administration of the unemployment benefit. It provided a system whereby in many cases it was more profitable not to work than it was to work. The effects of these policies have all been disastrous. 
Why did the Government introduce these policies? It did so to reverse 23 years of what it saw as imbalance and 23 years of what it thought was exploitation. It wanted to improve the lot of the working man. It wanted to improve the lot of the people who supported it. What has it done? It wanted to introduce and experiment in social democratic reform, but it had no research and no back-up. It did not think through the effects and implications of what it was doing. It encouraged every vested interest group in this country, except the people who produce the wealth. It raised the expectations of the community. It offered everything. It offered pre-schools. It offered support to authors and artists. It offered support to every community group that it could find- to sporting groups, to local government bodies and to the pensioners. It removed incentive for people to work and to provide for the things that they need and want. It then promptly dashed all those expectations which it had raised because the money had run out. The Government could not afford to introduce those policies. It had to backtrack on the pensioners, on its pre-school policy and in just about all those areas of glamorous reform that it offered to the Australian people. 
The tragedy is that this Government has failed to recognise that it is only a healthy, prosperous, thriving and growing economy that can afford to provide these improvements in the standard of living and in the quality of life. It cannot be done when the share of gross domestic product going to profits falls from 16.1 per cent to 9.5 per cent. It cannot be done when the gross domestic product itself is negative. The Government has destroyed the capacity of the community to provide the improvements that the Government sought to provide. The Government encouraged people to acquire a taste for champagne when the people could afford only beer, and now they may think twice about the beer. It is not only irresponsible but also unfair to hold out the promise of the Government's providing all these improvements and of reducing the need for the individual and the community group to provide for their wants, and then informing the nation that it can no longer be done. Let us not forget that what has been done and what can be continued today is being achieved only at the cost of a deficit of $2.5 billion last year and $2.9 billion this year; that is if we can believe the figures. 
I ask the Government how long this massive deficit financing may be expected to continue. I point out that we still have had no economic policy laid down by this Government. There has been no White Paper, no assessment or analysis on where the economy is going and how the Government proposes to handle and to direct it. I can see no possibility of this Government ever achieving a Budget surplus. I can foresee only greater increases in the size of the deficit. How can it be otherwise. Is the Government expecting to be able to achieve a net reduction in expenditure of $3 billion in the next Budget? Does the Government expect profitability and taxation levels to provide another $3 billion? I despair. We are faced with a government with an insatiable desire to spend way beyond the rational limits imposed by income. The continuation of the Government's programs will of necessity mean growing deficits without taking into account any new policies that are on the drawing board or that may have been deferred for this year's Budget exercise. Even allowing for desirable improvements in our living standards the Government has failed to discriminate between wants and needs and between desires and necessities. 
The Government has failed miserably to allocate the funds available to the areas of real need. What is more important- good roads or the arts, the alleviation of poverty or increasing the bureaucracy, welfare housing or payments of $120 a week to unemployed Regional Employment Development scheme workers? To my mind we can only provide for the arts and the like after we have provided for the needs of the community. The Government's system of priorities is beyond understanding. It is a sad reflection when a government suspends introduction of a new education triennium system and fails to honour its promises on the means test, but still provides money for a pipeline, for overpaid Regional Employment Development scheme workers, for the arts and for a wide range of obviously less important things. 
Let us look back over the record of this Government. The total tax take, the amount of money the Government has raised by taxation, has increased from $8,453m in 1972 to an expected take this year of $ 17,608m, or an increase of over 100 per cent. The income tax take or the net pay as you earn tax take has increased from $3, 161m in 1972-73 to an estimated $8,683m in 1975-76. That is supposed to represent tax relief. There has been an almost 3-fold increase in the amount of tax payable on wages and salaries. In 1972-73 wages and salaries amounted to $22.3 billion. The income tax take on those wages and salaries was $3.1 billion. The Australian Government took in tax 14.1 per cent of the total amount of wages and salaries. What have we seen happen in 1975-76? We have seen wages and salaries increase to almost $44 billion and pay as you earn tax increase to $8.68 billion. What percentage of that income is the Government now taking after the introduction of its so-called tax relief? We find that 19.8 per cent of wages and salaries is being taken in tax. That is 19.8 per cent in this year, as opposed to the 14.1 per cent in 1972-73. The increase in Government outlays in the 3 Labor Budgets has been 115 per cent. The increase in receipts in those 3 Labor Budgets has been 102 per cent. Income tax collected by this Labor Government under the 3 Budgets it has presented has increased by 142 per cent. That is the Government's record of which it can be proud. 
What are the economic statistics? What has the Government done to the economy? We all know about inflation and unemployment. But how many people stop and think about some of the underlying economic statistics that are available? Gross domestic product in the year to March 1975 was down by 3.2 per cent. Gross non-farm product in the year to March 1975 was down by 4.4 per cent. Non-farm employment in the year to March 1975 was down by 0.5 per cent. Non-farm productivity in the year to March 1975 was down by 4 per cent. The figures are unarguable. That is the Government's record. The percentage share of gross domestic product at factor cost going to wages in 1972 was 59.9 per cent and in March 1975 it had risen to 69.3 per cent. The share going to the gross operating surplus of companies in 1972 was 16.1 per cent and in March 1975 it was 9.5 per cent. The Government cannot expect to bring about a reversal in the amount of profit that is available to industry and expect industry to be able to provide the tax revenue to enable the Government to carry out the schemes it wishes to introduce. 
What has the Government done in regard to interest rates? In December 1972 the long term bond rate was 6.0 1 per cent; in June 1 975 it stood at 9.5 per cent; and now it is almost 10 per cent. In December 1972 the interest rate on trading bank overdrafts was 7% per cent. In June 1975 it had increased to 1 1  Vi  per cent. Yet the Government talks about costs increasing. The Government went to the people in December 1972 as the friend of the unions. It professed to have a contract with the unions; it professed to be able to deal and negotiate with the unions. It said that it could show the Australian community how we could have fewer strikes. In December 1972, 2 billion man days- a lot of days and representing a lot of production and a lot of wages- were lost due to strikes. In 1974, after a couple of years of the Labor Administration- the friend of the unions- 6.3 billion man days were lost due to strikes. The number of man days lost increased from 2 billion in 1972 to 6.3 billion in 1974. 
The Australian Labor Party came into government and destroyed one of the basic Westminister system principles. It destroyed the nonpolitical career Public Service. It did so on an ad hoc basis. It was not prepared to debate the matter and it was not prepared to talk about it in the community. It just did it. It removed permanent heads of departments and put its political puppets in their places. It destroyed the established standard and principle built up over many years, a system of a career Public Service, a nonpolitical Public Service. What are the ramifications of this? What will happen? Will the incoming government do what the Labor Government did, namely, replace its political appointments with career public servants and revert to the traditional and proper system; or will we do what the Labor Government did, namely, replace its political appointments with our political appointments? It is something that has to be thought about seriously by honourable members on both sides of the House. It is something that has to be discussed in the community. We have achieved, on an ad hoc and undiscussed basis, a change from the Westminster system to a system approaching the American system under which when governments change the Public Service leadership changes. If that is what we want and if that is what we are to have in Australia, it should be done deliberately, rationally and in the full knowledge of what we are doing. But, if we want a career Public Service, then the Government stands condemned for the actions it has taken since its election to office. 
The effects of this Government's policies in rural areas are nothing short of disastrous. Two years ago at a sale of 18-month-old, on average, weaner steers at Adelong the average price paid was $140 a steer. Last year, at a similar sale with the same type of stock, the average price paid was $90 a steer. This year, at a similar sale again with the same stock and the same vendors, the average price paid was $38 a steer. Costs have increased by in excess of 36 per cent in the last 12 months. The wool price has been maintained at a floor level of 250c a kilogram clean. Everything is militating against the profitability of the rural sector. The Government now has introduced this Budget which places more imposts upon that important sector of our economy. Transport costs will rise. Any farmer who sows a reasonable amount of wheat will pay in excess of $500 and in many cases $1,000 more for the diesel fuel to run the tractors to sow that wheat. The Government had the opportunity to introduce the recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission in regard to tuberculosis and brucellosis, the superphosphate bounty and income fluctuations; but the Government squibbed it. I support the amendment which has been moved by the Leader of the Opposition. I recall the comment made by  Mr Peter  Walker, a former Minister in the Heath Government in England, who said: 
What Wilson has done to the British economy took talent. 
What Whitlam has done to the Australian economy took genius. The Labor experiment has failed. It is time this Government stepped aside. 
It is always interesting to listen to the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  who comes in here perpetrating this holier than thou attitude and asserting that the Opposition is the one that breaks conventions. 
It seems to me that this Government is probably responsible for breaking more conventions and more traditions than any other Party in this Parliament or in any other Parliament. The record is long. It is also on the record that if the Labor Party had had the opportunity in the Senate in earlier years it would have rejected Supply also. 
-The Labor Party did not have the opportunity. That view was expressed by  Mr Justice  Murphy of the High Court as he now is. He said that if he could have mustered the numbers in the Senate when he was a senator he would have rejected Supply to a Liberal-Country Party Government. The honourable member for Blaxland comes in here with this holier than thou attitude, trying to put across the message that the Labor Party is the pious Party in this Parliament 
I have risen in this debate primarily to direct some questions about the Medibank aspect of the Budget and to seek some clarification from the Acting Treasurer  (Mr Crean).  I am seeking detail of some of the figures that are involved and the relationship of those figures to the overaU deficit that has been projected in this Budget. The Treasurer  (Mr Hayden),  with his knowledge over the years of developing and seeing through the Parliament the Medibank proposals, is probably the man most familiar with the costing of the Medibank scheme. The figure that he has produced, and which one assumes has the blessing of the Department of the Treasury is an amount of $ 1,400m. In that $ 1,400m is a sum of $822m for the hospital side of Medibank. 
The documents tabled with the Budget Speech reveal that that $822m does not include any figure for the hospital side of Medibank in respect of the States of New South Wales or Queensland. This was because at the time when the figures were drawn up those 2 States were not participating in the system. New South Wales apparently is going to participate in the hospital side of Medibank and I understand that Queensland will also. Those 2 States will bear part of the cost of the hospital side of Medibank in the financial year which we have entered and for which these estimates are relevant. So it is apparent that the $822m contained in the Budget estimates will fall far short of the overall cost of the hospital side of Medibank alone. 
I would be very pleased to hear some explanation from the Acting Treasurer as to the view of the Department of the Treasury in this regard. I would imagine that there are probably enough hospitals in New South Wales- let alone New South Wales and Queensland combined- to involve the Government in additional outlays of as much as $822m, which would bring the hospital contributions from this Government to the Medibank scheme to an amount in excess of $ 1,600m. If this is to be the case, I think that the Government does have a responsibility to lay those facts before the Parliament and the people. 
The other aspect of Medibank and the figures which have been presented in relation to it and to which I wish to refer is that, to my knowledge, we do not have any understanding or idea of what the costs will be in a full year. The costs on the medical side, I am sure the Government would suggest, are a fair estimate of the costs of Medibank in that area. But, on the hospital side, the dates on which the Medibank operations commence vary from State to State. In the 12 months period that we are presently considering, the entry dates of the States into that side of the scheme will be different. Obviously, the figure for the cost of the hospital side of Medibank must be very conservative. I think that the Treasurer does owe a responsibility to the Parliament and to members on both sides of this Committee to give some explanation of just what the overall cost of Medibank might be in a full year on the basis of all the States participating in the hospital side of that scheme and perhaps in the light of the usage factor that has developed in the number of claims being received on the medical side. 
In relation to this aspect, it is interesting to note the comparison that has been drawn between the system which operates in Canada now and the Medibank scheme in Australia. The figures which have been used and which I accept and believe to be right show that in the current year the Canadian Parliament has budgeted for an expenditure of approximately $A7,000m for its equivalent of Australia's Medibank scheme. That expenditure will cater for a population of 22 million people. Working on very rough figures, we can see that the cost of the scheme in Canada, which is pretty much the same as the Medibank system in this country, will be approximately $300 per capita. It seems to me to be totally unrealistic to suggest that the Australian Medibank equivalent of the Canadian system can be financed at a cost of $ 1,400m for 13 million people which is approximately $100 a head of population. Are we correct in assuming that the Treasurer puts before the Australian people the suggestion that in this country we can run Medibank at a cost of approximately $100 a head although in Canada the cost of running an equivalent scheme is approximately $300 a head? How realistic are the figures which we have been given in relation to the whole Medibank proposal? 
A number of questions need to be answered in this area. I have raised some specific ones. They are: What are the costs estimated by the Department of Social Security, by the Treasury or by some other government authority as to the cost of Medibank in a full year on a basis of all States participating in the hospital side of that scheme and with the benefit of the knowledge of the number of claims which have been lodged in the first few months of operation of the medical side of Medibank. I think that the Australian people are entitled to know the answers to those questions based on estimates and experience. 
The other aspect which I wish to raise briefly in the time available to me is this: I would be pleased if the Acting Treasurer would give some consideration as to what the prospect may be for Australia to reduce the deficit and in fact to reach a surplus situation. I find it very difficult to believe that there is the remotest possibility that an Australian Government Treasurer could introduce a Budget which would be able to reduce the deficit in any way significantly. 
How would this be done? It would have to be done by the Government either getting an enormous increase in the revenue available to it or making some drastic cuts in its expenditure program. In simplistic terms, that is basically the situation if the deficit is to be reduced. I do not see any prospect of the Government obtaining revenue over and above increasing costs- let us say of the order of $2,000m- which would be sufficient to reduce the proposed deficit to $800m, which the Government regards as being a reasonable deficit. I would be interested to know whether the Acting Treasurer has any thoughts in that respect. 
We must bear in mind the cuts that were made in the original departmental bids for funds and the number of programs which have been deferred by the Government. I mention as an example the progressive elimination of the means test on pensions and the lack of availability of additional funds in a number of areas including pre-school activities and tourism and recreational needs. We assume that appropriations for such proposals will come into operation next year or in the Budget the following year, if the Government is in a more healthy financial position. Having regard to commitments of that type which the Government has, as well as the many ongoing costs of running its programs, I ask: Is there a possibility that this country can ever look forward to a reduction in the deficit or is it committed to an ever increasing deficit year after year, Budget after Budget? 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Lucock)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
In view of the importance of the Medibank estimates to the overall Budget deficit, will the Treasurer inform the House what the cost of the hospital part of the Medibank scheme is estimated to be in New South Wales this year and what it is estimated to be in a full year, this provision not having been included in the Budget as the agreement was not signed? Does the Treasurer agree with his colleague, the Deputy Prime- Minister, that the costs of Medibank in Australia could reasonably be expected to rise to approximately the Canadian figure of $300 a head per annum, involving the Australian Government in outlays of about $4 billion in a full year? 
-The Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  has recently issued an interesting Press statement dated 1 1 September. It contains information on the population growth changes that has recently become available to his Department. It states: 

 Mr Uren said that the non metropolitan areas of Australia had increased their share of national growth, and in 1973-74 had experienced a rapid rise in absolute population growth. 'The latest data available for analysis by the Department of Urban and Regional Development suggest an increasing exercise of preference for locations away from the major metropolitan regions of Sydney and Melbourne',  Mr Uren  said. 
He goes on to say: 'In 1966-71 Sydney absorbed 73.2 per cent of the State's population growth, and in 1 97 1 -74 this fell to 63.3 per cent 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The time allotted for the remaining stages of the BUI has expired. The question is 'That the Bill be now read a third time '. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
BUI read a third time. 
-During my remarks in the second reading of the Bill I make reference to a Press statement issued by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  in which he said: 
The latest data available for analysis by the Department of Urban and Regional Development suggest an increasing exercise of preference for locations away from the major metropolitan regions of Sydney and Melbourne. 
He continued: 
It is also significant that despite the high level of population growth in Queensland in recent years, the share absorbed into the Moreton area and Brisbane actually declined after 1971. 
This indicated substantial increases in population in nonmetropolitan Queensland. 
The Minister went on to say: 
The relative performance of Sydney and Melbourne suggests a changing pattern of social preference and relative attractiveness which is favouring non-metropolitan areas and the smaller capitals. 
It is interesting in the light of information which is available to the Department of Services and Property and presumably to the Distribution Commissioners and the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  that all the country electorates, with the exception of Farrer and New England, are rated above quota. In the case of Calare the figure is .22 per cent above and in my own electorate it is 4.56 per cent above. This is the pattern in other country electorates. 
The electorate of Hume, which takes in part of the growth centre of Bathurst-Orange, has the largest enrolment in the State of New South Wales, 65 625. This gives some indication of the confidence that the Government has in its decentralisation proposals. That is one point that I wanted to make in this debate. The other point is that if we look at the situation that exists in the United States of America, it is interesting to note the results of a survey of congressional districts taken in the 1970s. Each State in that country is divided into a number of congressional districts and each district within each State is held very, very closely to the same size within the State. Let us look at some of the figures of variations between the States. In the State of Connecticut, for instance, the size of the electoral districts is about 505 000. In Idaho the size of electoral districts is 356 000; in Oregon, 523 000; in South Dakota, 333 000; in Utah, 530 000; in Montana, 347 000; and in North Dakota, 618 000. In Washington D.C. itself the size of electoral districts is 757 000; in Alaska it is 307 000. 
-This morning I want to raise some points in relation to the Australian Government capital grants for government schools and particularly in relation to the effect that these have had on a proposal to build a high school at Harden in my electorate. It is a matter of some concern in Harden that this proposal has been deferred because it has been on and off the drawing board for a very long time. 
There have been problems within New South Wales as to the availability of land. When these problems were overcome the question of funds, finance, and things of that nature had to be faced. The fact is that the new school at Harden is very sorely needed. The existing buildings accommodate the infants, the primary and the secondary schools, while the senior students have had to move to the old shire offices in Harden, which are in a very dilapidated condition, simply because there is not room for them on the campus. 
In 1974-75 the Australian Government provided $72m to New South Wales as capital grants for government and non-government schools. That figure is shown in Budget Paper No. 7. The capital grants estimate for 1975-76 is $48m, which represents a reduction of some $24m in actual money terms. Assuming that there is a 20 per cent inflation rate, the Australian Government would need to provide $86m in the current year to maintain the money value of last year's $72m for capital grants to New South Wales for government schools. It could be argued that in terms of bricks and mortar the real reduction in capital grants has been $38m. The Schools Commission report for the triennium 1976-78 recommended $157m plus $40m under the States Grants (Schools) Act, giving a total of $ 1 97m as capital grants for Government schools in New South Wales in the triennium. The report recommended $29m plus $12m for the States Grants (Schools) Act, a total of $41m as capital grants for non-government schools in New South Wales in the triennium. I mention those figures simply to indicate the split-up between government and nongovernment schools which is not readily available from other figures that are published. 
The total grants recommended are $197m plus $41m under the States Grants (Schools) Act, making a total of $238m for capital grants for government and non-government schools in New South Wales in the triennium. This is shown in table 18.3 of the Schools Commission report. Accepting the approximate ratio of grants for government schools and non-government schools as 5:1, the figures for 1974-75 would be $60m for government schools and $ 12m for nongovernment schools. In the 1975-76 Estimates the figures would be $40m and $80m respectively. If those figures are approximately correct New South Wales is receiving $20m less in money terms than last year for capital grants to government schools. On the basis of inflation it would be a reduction of $32m. The Schools Commission report for the triennium 1976-78 would have indicated about $65m in each of the 3 years for capital grants to government schools in New South Wales. If in fact New South Wales were planning on the basis of $65rn it would have been severely disappointed to learn that the grant was only to be $40m. This has resulted in cuts being made in New South Wales. 
It has been argued, and probably correctly argued to some extent, that there have been big increases in the untied grants to New South Wales and that, if it so desired, New South Wales could allocate moneys from the untied grants in line with its priorities. I think it is worthy of note that the untied grant in 1974-75 amounted to $737m. In 1975-76 it is $980m, which is a fairly big increase. However, there is a formula for the yearly adjustment of the untied grant. Under that formula New South Wales was entitled to an increase of 23.7 per cent. This would have indicated an untied grant in 1975-76 of $9 12m, that is $737m plus a 23.7 per cent increase. So the actual increase in untied grants that is available for allocation by New South Wales is $68m. 
If New South Wales were to supplement the Australian Government grant for capital grant purposes to government schools to maintain the 1974-75 purchasing power without any increase, it would need to allocate $32m from that increased amount of $68m which is available in the untied grants. That is a fairly heavy proportion of those grants. New South Wales itself does spend heavily on education. The capital expenditure by the New South Wales Government from its own funds in 1974-75 was $70.2m. That information comes from table 4.18 of the Schools Commission report. So, New South Wales will need to increase its own expenditure also. 
In the triennium 1976-78, New South Wales will be involved in a capital expenditure program on government schools of $4 12m of which the Australian Government, according to the report, would be providing $179m and New South Wales $2 15m from its own resources. The Government of New South Wales is by no means falling down on the job of providing for education, at least not in the area of capital grants. New South Wales will have to find an additional $14m from its own resources to boost its own capital expenditure on government schools alone, from $70m last year to the same real value figure of $84m this year, assuming a cost increase again of 20 per cent. This is in addition to the $32 m which it would need to find to keep the Australian Government contribution at last year's level. I know that it can be argued properly that the $14m that New South Wales will have to find to increase its own figure to keep that expenditure at the same level should properly come from the increase in the untied grants and from its own other sources. This is why, I understand, the untied grants are indexed. The $14m would presumably be covered in that, but the $32m is not. The Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  has suggested that New South Wales should assess its priorities and that if it believes that the construction program has a high priority it should allocate from the untied grants the money that is involved. 
To sum up in relation to capital grants to government schools in New South Wales, the State of New South Wales received an estimated $60m for that purpose in 1974-75. It will receive an estimated $40m in 1975-76. The Schools Commission report recommended $ 1 97m for the triennium, say $65m in each of the 3 years. New South Wales will need to find $32m from its own funds to keep the level of Australian Government contribution up, plus $ 14m to keep its own contribution up; but that would be only at last year's equivalent levels. The real increase in untied grants to New South Wales in 1975-76 has been $68m. That $68m has to be applied to a wide range of New South Wales Government programs, apart from this specific area of education. 
I have spoken to the Minister of Education about this matter, admittedly briefly. I hope that what I have said will promote a bit of discussion. Personally, I would be happy, in the interests of seeing that the construction program in New South Wales is not as badly cut as it is proposed to be, to have my arguments demolished. In fact, in its Budget introduced yesterday, the New South Wales Government did increase its expenditure on education. At this stage, I do not know the details. I do not know what it may have allocated for an increase in government grants. I put the view in good faith. It is the position as I see it. I do not guarantee my accuracy. I hope that the Minister at a later date will give some thought to the matter. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
With reference to the 4-page advertisement in the Canberra Times of Saturday 23 August 1975 relating to the extension of the A.C.T. border, how much of the total cost of the advertisement was borne by his department. 
What was the total cost of the 4-page advertisement. 
3 ) Did any other departments, authorities or bodies share the cost of the 4-page advertisement. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the purpose of the traffic survey being conducted at Hall on the Barton Highway near the A.C.T./New South Wales border. 
2 ) Will the results of the survey be made public as soon as possible. 
Will he incorporate the contents of the questionnaire in the answer to this question. 
asked the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
With reference to the press statement of the former Minister for Agriculture dated 19 September 1975 entitled  Sheep and Wool Research  1 975-76, how much of the $ 1 8.2 million for sheep and wool research programs is being provided by (a) the Australian Government and (b) the woolgrowers. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
How many Regional Employment Development Scheme projects have been approved since the inception of the Scheme in each Electoral Division in Australia, and what has been the total sum approved for projects in each Division. 

 -Mr Speaker - 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  put: 

 -Mr Speaker, I would like to make some comments in relation to the Grants Commission proposals as they affect my electorate. 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
My question, which is directed to the Treasurer, is supplementary to the question asked by the honourable member for Ballaarat. Did the Government obtain all the Supply it requested from the Parliament earlier this year to cover the Government's services and commitments until the end of November? Is it a fact that many line items are already fully expended and that no funds are available for many programs and services as a result of over expenditure by the Government? Is it a fact that this bankruptcy is totally unrelated to the question of the passage of the Budget? Will the Treasurer confirm that, regardless of the passage of the Budget, this Government is actually out of funds in a range of areas due to its own mismanagement? Is the Budget issue a massive cover up for the Government's own financial problems? 
It is often my privilege to follow the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  in debate in this chamber. The trouble about following him is that it is very hard to stay awake and to get the call when he sits down. 
-The honourable member for Wilmot obviously needs a great deal of assistance when talking about matters relating to primary industry. 

 -Mr Speaker, I am sure the courtesies of the House allow me a slight introduction. 

 - Mr Speaker, I make no excuse for the fact that I am on my feet this afternoon to speak about this Bill and to make clear to the Government my views about the way in which it has been handling the wool industry. For almost 3 years now the Government has been responsible for bringing the wool industry, which has been the backbone of the Australian economy for over a century- in fact for one and a half centuriesvirtually to its knees. It is responsible for deliberately bringing about a situation in rural Australia whereby the people who live in that part of this great country are being deprived, to a large extent, of the necessities of life. This Government has 2 attitudes towards country people. The first is to reduce their voice in the Parliament by wiping out country seats by means of electoral redistributions; the second is to bring them to their knees financially by cutting off whatever money they may be able to earn in an honest fashion. The Government believes that by doing these 2 things it will be able to reduce the people in non-metropolitan Australia to a peasant population. That is the intention of this Government. 
That is perfectly clear from all the actions that the Government has taken since it came to office. We can think back to the period when the Government set up the Coombs inquiry which listed 101 separate items in relation to which it could withdraw hard won incentives to rural industry. The Government has worked on ways and means of bringing a total section of the community to its knees. Since that time this Government has been systematically introducing the recommendations of that Coombs inquiry. Today the Industries Assistance Commission has enough confidence in the wool industry of this country to be able to say in the superphosphate production tariff revision report of 2 1 August 1975 that the future price of wool will fall from an index of 100 in 1972 to an index of 80 in 1976. It expects that the cost of superphosphate will rise from an index of 100 to an index of 277. In case honourable members do not understand the significance of those figures I will repeat them: The index for the price of wool will fall from 100 in 1972 to 80 in 1976 and the index for the price of superphosphate will rise from 100 in 1972 to 277 in 1976. 
The honourable member for Riverina said that I should throw in shearers' wages. There are 101 things that could be thrown in to illustrate the effect that this Government and its colleagues in the unions are having on this great industry that in 1975 is still important to Australia and which must be allowed to continue to be important to Australia. The introduction by the Government of a Wool Marketing (Loan) Bill, an amending Bill, and its juggling of the figures relating to the funding of the floor price scheme so as to put the onus on the private sector of the financial market rather than on the Government sector, is a very weak reed in the total spectrum of what the Government is doing to an industry which is vital to the Aus.talian economy. 
There are a series of things that this Government should be doing for primary industries if it has the interests of country people at heart. I suggest that it does not have their interests at heart. We have heard nothing from the Government but calls for report after report. It started with the Coombs report. It followed that with its Green Paper. Then followed a series of references to the Industries Assistance Commission. With the exception of the Coombs report, none of these has been acted upon and I wonder why. Is there any secret about the way in which this Government is approaching the people who live outside the metropolitan areas? The Wool Marketing (Loan) Bill is part and parcel of a scheme introduced into the Parliament a year or so ago to set up the floor price structure for the marketing of wool. It is the only concrete thing that the Government has done for this industry in its term of office. In fact, if the arm of the Government had not been twisted behind its back by what is left of the rural rump in its Caucus this would never have happened. 
The Labor Party is dominated by city union people and by ex-Labor Party executives and campaign directors who come into the Parliament and expect to be able to legislate in a responsible fashion for one of the largest industries in this country. It is represented by ex-bank managers from Newcastle who cannot even get their preselections sorted out. They come into the chamber but cannot rise to the occasion. 
-The suit I am wearing is 100 per cent wool. The Government has a very sorry record in dealing with the wool industry. In fact it has a very sorry record in dealing with rural industries as a whole. There can be no doubts in the mind of any thinking Australian who is in any way aware of what is happening in the country just what this Government is doing. As I said earlier, there is a decided and deliberate attempt to bring country people to their knees. The Government will do this economically and politically. The Government will wipe out country seats and force the people of rural Australia to live in a peasant economy. I do not have a great deal of time in which to speak this afternoon and I do not intend to keep the House in debating a matter which is of minor significance in the overall context of what is happening. 
Minor significance in terms of the overall context of what is occurring in the great wool industry, in the great pastoral industries of Australia. The Government has to get on to its feet and do something constructive in these industries. It is not good enough for it to present a Bill in this place, the only Bill in respect of wool that we have seen this year; the only Bill on wool that we will see for a long time from this Government. 
There are a series of things that have to be done. The Government can start off by implementing the recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission and get the superphosphate bounty back on so that something can be done to contain the costs which are rising at a rate in excess of 35 per cent in the rural economy. Despite the figures on inflation that the Government is putting out to the Australian people this is the sort of rise in costs that we are seeing at the moment. The Government should ask the farmer and the man on the land what is happening to his costs. It should ask him what is happening to shearers' wages, to the price of drench and to the price of superphosphate. It should ask what is happening in respect of the price of fencing materials. Fencing now costs $1,500 a mile. The Government cannot expect people to run their farms economically when costs are rising at this rate. 
The Government has a significant responsibility to do something constructive for the wool industry. It should not come in here with a half baked Bill and tell us that a few dollars will be raised from this area as opposed to another area. We welcome the fact that the floor price plan is to be continued. I guess that credit must be given where credit is due and the industry is grateful for that. But the Government has a long way to go if it is to bring back some confidence to the rural economy of this country. It is showing no indication of being prepared to do anything about restoring that confidence. It is doing nothing at all about showing the vaguest willingness to look after this sector of the economy. It is no surprise to me, and I am sure that it is no surprise to the Government, that support for the Government in rural Australia is at zero level. We challenge the Government to go to the polls to see how many rural seats it will come back with because it will not come back with any. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
In  Committee 
The Bill. 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister. I know how keen he is to preserve conventions of a parliamentary nature. I ask the Prime Minister. On how many occasions has a motion of censure against a government not been accepted immediately? 
-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-Yes. During question time I felt that the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  and yourself,  Mr Speaker,  without any reflection upon you, treated me rather harshly. There is no doubt that the Treasurer last week out of his own mouth admitted that the Government had been out of funds for the Regional Employment Development scheme for some time. Today he suggested that as a result of the Opposition's action in the Senate country people and country local government are amongst the first to suffer. 
My personal explanation is that the Treasurer severely provoked me as a result of the statements which he made last week. I think in the light of that some consideration should have been given by the Chair. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I first offer my congratulations to you on your election as the  Deputy Speaker  and  Chairman  of Committees in this chamber and ask you to pass on my congratulations to  Mr Speaker.  Tonight we have heard the first of the maiden speeches to be made in this Thirtieth Parliament. They are a credit to the men who made them and to the Parliament as a whole. We are very fortunate that we have a large crop of what is obviously very good talent in this Parliament. I hope that all of these members are able to spend a long time in this Parliament. I would like also to express my sympathy to the honourable member for Darling  (Mr FitzPatrick),  who preceded me in this debate, with particular reference to the problems he has with floods in his electorate. 
To a lesser extent I know the problems that floods can cause. I have large stretches of the Murrumbidgee and Lachlan river systems in my electorate and we have had significant problems from time to time, particularly last year, with flooding. Of all the members of the Australian Labor Party in the chamber the honourable member for Darling is the one who probably would earn the most respect on this side of the House. Certainly that is true as far as I am concerned. It is a tribute to him that in his electorate a very small swing occurred against him. I am certainly not going to say that we were not trying to win that seat or that we will not continue to do so but I think we will have to wait until the present member retires before we are really in the hunt. 
The suggestion made by the honourable member for Darling that the Parliament should give greater consideration to members of electorates concerned in times of crisis should be taken a great deal further. There is no doubt that members in large rural electorates have a stronger personal association with their constituents than do members from city electorates. This is important to the people and at times of crisis the member has a responsibility to be in his electorate and the Parliament and the Government should make available such facilities as are necessary to a member in such circumstances. Members of the Opposition who have spoken so far in this debate have tended to hark back to the past. They cannot seem to drag themselves forward into 1976 and probably the next couple of years in this Parliament will be spent by these members continuing to bring forward the constitutional questions which arose towards the end of last year. I do not believe that they are doing this Parliament or the country any service by continuing to pursue that line. 
One of the important things about the Parliament and democracy is that there should be a strong and effective Opposition but if there is one thing we will not have in this Parliament it is a strong and effective Opposition whilst Opposition members pursue the line they have taken today. It obviously will be a key part of their strategy over the coming weeks and months, if not years. The honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage),  who is trying to interject, has finally come into the chamber. He is a couple of speeches late. I think he appeared on the speaker's list before me. He is incapable of doing anything correctly. I do not understand how he can retain an endorsement in a seat such as he has - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! I suggest to the honourable member for Hume that the remarks I made to the honourable member for Port Adelaide also apply to him. I suggest that the honourable member not continue his speech on that same line. 
-The tragedy of the election of 1975 was that a number of reasonable men in the Labor Party lost their seats. A number of members probably deserved to lose their seats but did not, but that is the fault of the pre-selection system which the Opposition has. I was pleased to have been here this afternoon when the former Treasurer and  Deputy  Prime Minister, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  spoke. He spent a great deal of time in my electorate during the campaign and I was very pleased that he did. I am sure that he contributed greatly to the result in that seat. In my view the Opposition has a need to develop new policies to put forward to the Australian electorate at the next election. This is what the period it is about to go through is for. I am not one who is going to hand out a great deal of advice to the Opposition but I suggest that it give some thought to coming up with something constructive for the next round rather than living in the past. We have heard a great deal from the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  about the deceit and the lies and things of this nature which allegedly have been forthcoming from this Government since its assumption of office last December. 
One would never recognise it. I think it is probably well worth going back to the election campaign before last when many people will recall the full page advertisements sponsored by the Australian Labor Party and showing photographs of its leader at that time, the man who is still the leader, and saying in very bold type: 'Only Whitlam can reduce inflation by a third. ' This was the man who presided over the quadrupling of inflation in Australia, yet members of the Australian Labor Party come in here and talk about deceit by our coalition in the election campaign. That sort of thing just does not wash at all. 
I think there is a strong argument that the Opposition men, shadows thereof, should spend some time being constructive if they are to contribute to the parliamentary session into which we are now entering. Our side of the Parliament has a legacy of 3 years of total mismanagement and of gross inability to handle the Australian economy. The tasks that are facing this new Government are immense. The response that we have taken to the situation that we have inherited has been quick and it has been taken decisively. I sincerely hope that the Government will continue to give thorough and deliberate thought to the redress of the imbalance that exists in the economy and then to act decisively to do something about it. There is no doubt that there will be no progress in our economy until the problems of unemployment and inflation are overcome. 
We have introduced two basic additions to the economic structure of Australia in recent weeks and we have been criticised on both counts. I refer to the reintroduction of an improved investment allowance and also to the reintroduction of the superphosphate bounty. I think it is worth putting these things into perspective because from the way that the Opposition argues these cases one who has not kept up with events perhaps would be inclined to think that there are some points worthy of consideration in its arguments. Looking firstly on the superphosphate bounty situation, I think it is well worth recalling that in 1972-73, which was the financial year of the last Liberal-Country Party Budget, there was something in the order of $ 1 82m available to the rural industries by way of grants and subsidies. These were all items which had been built up and which had been provided for specific purposes over the years to encourage agriculture and to provide for the unpredictability of the weather, the markets and things of this nature. In the 1975-76 Budget, the last Budget brought down by the Australian Labor Party, that $ 1 82m had been reduced to a figure of less than $30m. What has been done by the Government in recent days has been to provide merely another $30m, which brings the figure up to about $60m, which is still $120m behind the 1972-73 figure. That is not taking any account of the downturns in markets and prices and a number of other things which to a large extent can be laid at the door of the previous Administration. 
The industrial sector in Australia also suffered very severely at the hands of the former Administration. One had only to recall the effect upon industry in Australia of things like the arbitrary 25 per cent tariff cut and of decisions concerned with the valuation of the Australian dollar. The provision of the investment allowance will go only part of the way towards restoring the confidence that is needed in the manufacturing, the industrial and the private sectors of the great or potentially great Australian economy. This is the reality and this is the perspective. The Government which is now in office has a massive task in restoring the sort of atmosphere that ought to prevail in our economic sector. We have a lot of imbalance to redress. We have to create a better economic situation in Australia, which is something which the Opposition is incapable of even understanding. We have a responsibility to get back to the business of creating wealth rather than just redistributing wealth. 
The Opposition did nothing in the last couple of years but find ways of digging extra money out of people and redistributing it amongst its chosen causes. It did nothing at all about the serious business of creating additional wealth. Gross domestic product was going down under the previous Administration when it ought not to have been going down in a country which is as rich, as resourceful and with as much potential as the country which we are fortunate enough to occupy. We have great responsibilities in Australia. The previous Government abrogated them. It is our responsibility now to pick up the shreds of an economy which the Opposition left behind and to try to do something about creating an atmosphere in which Australian business, Australian commerce, Australian people in general, can get on with the job of utilising the great wealth and great resources with which we have been blessed. 
An atmosphere of confidence is basic in the Australian economy. The coalition parties will set about quite deliberately re-establishing that atmosphere of confidence which is basic. We had a situation in Australia in which the redistribution was so paramount in the minds of the then Government that not only did industry suffer but even the recipients of the redistribution, the recipients of the handouts, were not appreciative of them, were put into an uneasy position, by gross mismanagement, by the handout mentality which was encouraged by the former Administration, and they will now find themselves in great difficulties. I do not think it is fair to any sector of the community, even though it comprises the weak and allegedly oppressed, that a government for a short period of time should offer them the world and do this for them and that for them and give them this and give them that in a quite irresponsible fashion when it is perfectly obvious that such a situation cannot last and that the next government will have the task of saying: 'We are terribly sorry but this just cannot be continued'. 
Obviously expectations and hopes are raised which must in all responsibility be brought back down to some sort of reality. The Opposition has a lot to answer for because of the way in which it built up expectations over a period and the way in which it took away from people the incentives and the abilities which they had developed over a long period of time. I talk about things at a very mundane level like the tuckshop committees and the parents and citizens associations in the schools which worked for years and years and held fete after fete to provide television sets for classrooms in their schools only to find, 6 months later, the Government sending them half a dozen. Where is the sense of value in this sort of expenditure, in this sort of waste? Where is it in areas in which the mothers used to bake cakes and go out and sell them on the street corners on Saturday mornings to raise money to build a preschool, only to find that in the next year if they had waited they could have had a massive handout from the Government to build themselves a pre-school? We are going to get a situation in which because of the requirements of a rational economic policy we will have to get back towards that sort of activity. I do not believe it was. fair and reasonable approach for the former Administration to do the sort of things it did. 
-Yes, I will send mothers back to baking cakes because I believe that the mothers and the children themselves appreciate it a great deal more when they know that there is their own blood, sweat and toil involved in providing the sort of facilities that they want. If we have a situation in which the cost of providing those pre-schools and those colour television sets in schools is 400 000 unemployed and an inflation rate of 20 per cent I think that the mothers will be very happy to bake cakes and to go out and do something on their own. This Parliament will have to consider a lot of things in the course of the next 3 years. I think that we can look forward to a lot of changes which will be beneficial to Australia and which will set Australia back on the course to recovery and growth. A couple of things which I should like to see happen are the solutions to the massive problems facing local government in Australia. I believe that the coalition, with its new federalism policy, is already a long way on the road towards seeing that the problems that local government faces will be sorted out. I hope that the figure of 2 per cent of the taxation pool mentioned by the Premier of New South Wales will be able to find its way to local government. I think there is a great necessity on the part of this Parliament and this Government to realise that there is a great deal more work that needs to be done in the area of rural roads. It is all right for those honourable members who live in cities with their pocket handkerchief electorates; they should come out to the country and realise just how bad some of these roads are. If the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  who is continually trying to interject, keeps behaving like that, he will make me make statements about him that will cause the  Deputy Speaker  to call me to order. I do not want to be put in that position. 
There has to be a reassessment of the national roads policy and a significant redirection of funds back into the area of rural local roads. Another point on which I wish to speak very briefly in the time left to me is the question of telephones and improvements. I know that there are parts of Australia that do not have telephones at all. For the benefit of the honourable member for Chifley I remind him that the situation is common where we have eight to ten people sharing a party line in areas not very far from major country towns. Reports have been filtering through in recent times about the further computerisation of telephone services in the cities, the introduction of push button telephones, of telephone services that will tell the caller when a number is engaged and will ring him back when the number is not engaged so that he may make his call, and things of that nature. I admit that they are very desirable improvements in telephone technology and will obviously be of benefit to the telephone user. But these things should not be considered until such a time as everybody in Australia has a decent and adequate telephone service. I think we have to make sure that everybody in this country is adequately served before we get into expenditure of a great deal more money on a sophisticated system that is largely for the benefit of people in the cities. I hope that this Parliament will be able to take steps forward in the question of over the border growth in the Australian Capital Territory which affects my electorate and the electorate of Eden-Monaro. There are significant problems in this area and I hope that the local governments- which I think is a very important aspect of this- and the New South Wales State Government and this Government will be able to do a lot to solve those problems about Canberra's growth and the effect that it is having on the surrounding region. Finally I think that it is proper for me to go back to the point where 1 started, that is to say to - 
It is often my lot to follow the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  in this debate and usually I find it a pleasure to sit here and listen to his coherent contribution and the free flow of his words.  His  delivery tonight may be excused because he has not been in the chamber for the last three or four months and I hope that he soon regains his fluency. The honourable member on my left, the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King),  has suggested that we should ask the honourable member for Prospect what he would like us to do when he passes on. Perhaps the answer is that we will all throw our hats in the air. 
Tonight I wish to raise a matter of significant importance in my electorate, a matter which I believe probably reflects very much on the general state of industrial relations in Australia today. It is probably a problem which is approaching flash point in a lot of industries. The experience we have had recently in Cootamundra may be of interest to the House. Last Thursday the management of Conkey and Sons, which runs an abattoir in Cootamundra employing some 400 to 500 people, closed its doors. The tragedy of the closure of Conkey and Sons abattoir should bring home to people everywhere the knife edge situation that exists in Australian industrial relations today. Despite the highest levels of unemployment since the depression, there are still union leaders who will push management to breaking point. I think it is worth nothing that the election which was held as recently as 2 months ago was fought largely on the basis of security of employment and the extreme hardship which has been caused by the highest levels of unemployment since the depression. Even in that atmosphere unions are still prepared to push management to take decisions such as the one taken in Cootamundra last week. 
In a country town such as Cootamundra the situation is aU the more serious because there is no alternative employment for those who are out of work. The decision to close the abattoir was not the result of government action, it was not the result of the loss of markets for the company's products, it was not the result of financial mismanagement. It was the result of a final confrontation by a militant union. The closure is the culmination of a long period of industrial unrest at Conkey 's. I should point out that an industrial order which was granted in Sydney only 1 9 days before the final closure of those works was breached 12 times by the union in that period of 19 days. The management was put into a position in which it was not worth carrying on operations. My understanding is that the bulk of the union's decisions is made or influenced by the union executive in Sydney. The decisions are not made in Cootamundra. I wonder whether the Sydney unionists understand or care about Cootamundra and the members of the union who worked at Conkey 's. I do not know how many of the employees agreed with the industrial action that was being taken, nor do I know whether they realised that last week's action would be the straw that would break the camel's back. I do not know whether secret ballots would have helped. I do know- I am vitally concerned about thisthe effect that the closure of Conkey's will have on the town of Cootamundra. 
Conkey's is not only an abattoir, it is Cootamundra Transport, which is a huge transport business that does all the cartage of the meat, both live and in carcass form. Conkey's is Skin Processors (Aust) Pty Ltd, which takes the hides from the abattoir and treats them. It is a $40,000 a week pay-roll which circulates among the town's business houses, clubs and hotels. It is supplier of fuel and materials, and it provides a lot of work for a lot of tradesmen. Conkey's is all of these things on which the economy of Cootamundra depends. But basically, and more importantly, it is people- hundreds of families who could not live in Cootamundra without the work provided directly or indirectly by Conkey 's. The question everybody must ask is simple: Has it all been worth it? Has it been worth all the personal and financial hardship that will follow for hundreds of families? Has it been worth destroying a thriving town that will quickly become a shadow of itself without its principal employer and industry? 
People must come to realise that industrial activity is a partnership. It should be a partnership between employer and employee in which each benefits from the other. While unions have an important and a proper place in the partnership I believe, and unionists should realise, they must be careful not to abuse the responsibility and the power that they undoubtedly have. The final decision whether an industry will continue must ultimately lie with the man or the company who has put up the capital and whose money is at risk. It is fundamental to economics that a satisfactory profit be earned on capital, otherwise that capital is better invested elsewhere. People must realise that although an industry should operate to the mutual benefit of both the owners and the workers it is not a charity, nor is it a bottomless pit of benefits for one side only. Industrial unrest is just as damaging to business as are excessive wage demands. Unfortunately, Cootamundra has come to learn that lesson very much the hard way. 
There is now an urgent need to negotiate a permanent arrangement which will result in the re-opening of Conkey's. The management is resolute that there will be no operations at the abattoir until firm guarantees are given that working conditions will be accepted and industrial orders observed. What will be the response of the Sydney based union? Will it be in the best interests of Cootamundra? I am rapidly coming to the conclusion that what may be good for Homebush is not necessarily good for Cootamundra. I believe that members of the Australasian Meat Industry Employees Union in Cootamundra and in other country areas should give serious consideration to breaking ties with that union if the union executive is responsible for the present situation. Perhaps the time has come for a country meat industry employees union. History is full of instances of governments which would not surrender when defeat was apparent. The bloodshed continued, as it does often in the industrial arena. These governments were replaced by others whose first action was to surrender. I use this analogy simply to demonstrate that the unionists in Cootamundra should not accept a situation in which they become pawns in the power game of a Sydney based executive. 
I would like to think it would be possible for the decisions which affect Cootamundra members to be made in Cootamundra. I wonder whether we have the leadership. Do we have the leadership in Cootamundra which will demand the secret ballots for which so many unionists express their support in private? Have we the ability to negotiate the long term solution which must be hammered out if Conkey's is to open again? If we can achieve a re-opening of this abattoir, have we the intelligence to stick to our word and to honour our agreements? I fear that the union in Sydney will be allowed to dominate and that the situation which will then exist will not result in a satisfactory agreement being reached. Those who want to work in this town and in this industry face an enormous challenge. It is in everybody's interest that that challenge is accepted and overcome. 
I wanted to bring the attention of the House to these matters this evening because I believe other industries in other towns and in the major metropolitan cities are probably close to the same situation which we have experienced in Cootamundra. For the benefit of Australia's economy, for the benefit of those who work in industry and for the benefit of those who invest in the industry, I hope that very soon there will be a realisation that there must be harmony on the industrial front and that all sides have an important part to play in reaching that harmony. After the event it is of no use saying: 'If we had done this or if we had done that things might have been different'. There needs to be an atmosphere of co-operation paramount to the framing of an industrial policy which is acceptable to all parties and which will prevent the occurrence of tragedies such as the one in Cootamundra at the moment. 
Before I conclude I point out to the House that the honourable member for Port Adelaide would look absolutely magnificent hung up by the calf, on a meat hook, going through those works. 
I rise tonight to make some preliminary comments on the Green Paper on the Australian Assistance Plan brought down today. It is my understanding that no specific motion was moved in relation to this report and therefore it will not necessarily be debated in the Parliament. I have for some time had views on the Australian Assistance Plan, particularly in the light of the Government's expenditure restraints. I want to make some early comments on this subject, although I must admit that at this stage I have not read the report as thoroughly as I would like to have done. 
I think it is necessary to put the Australian Assistance Plan into some sort of perspective and to point out the extent of government outlays that are involved in social security and welfare as functional groupings in the Budget. It is interesting to note that in 1972-73 the Government allocated $2, 102m to social security and welfare and that in 1975-76 this amount had risen to an estimated $4,772m, which is an increase of over 100 per cent. The estimated total government outlay in 1 975-76 is $22 billion. This amount of course will be significantly higher because our allocations for social security and welfare are running at a rate of about 20 per cent of our total Budget. That is not necessarily a bad thing and I make no comment about it, but I think it is worth putting the overall social security system into that context. 
It is also interesting to note that the Budget Papers reveal that about $87m of the almost $5 billion allocated for social security and welfare is to go towards the cost of salaries and administration of the Department of Social Security. In that respect the administration of the social security system is not inordinately high. 
When one turns to the area of the Australian Assistance Plan one notes from the Budget papers that an amount of $4.2m was provided in 1974-75 and $7.4m in 1975-76. When compared with the amount that has been spent on social security, this is a minimal figure of $1 1.6m since the introduction of the Plan, admittedly on a pilot basis. Of the $ 11.6m which has been allocated for expenditure under the Australian Assistance Plan, according to the Green Paper, by taking a summation of the figures provided in the tables at page 154 and following pages, approximately $4.7m had been allocated up to October 1975. 1 am concerned about the necessity for an Australian Assistance Plan, its position in relation to priorities in terms of the expenditure problems which the government of the day has and also the significant costs of administering it. According to the report the cost of administration and salaries of each region within the Australian Assistance Plan is based on a figure of about $66,000 in a full year. It appears that community development offices which cost about $ 12,000 a year are extra. It seems from the report that at the moment there are about 34 regions. This means that about $2.2m is being spent in the administrative and salary structure of the Plan. In a Budget allocation this year of $7.4m we are spending $2.2m on salaries and administration, or 40 per cent of the allocation. In other words it is costing something like $2.2m to hand out $5.2m. The conclusion at paragraph 10.2 of the document shows that there are 61 regions which have been or are being established. At a cost of $66,000 each that will total $4m. Ultimately 76 regions will be funded. That will cost $5m on the basis of $66,000 although recommendation 20 says it will cost about $6m in administration. There are significant administrative costs in implementing the Australian Assistance Plan. 
I want briefly to refer to the administrative structure. It is interesting to read pages 138 and 139 of the report because those pages contain details relating to the Western Australian situation. Admittedly it reveals an incredibly complicated system of communication running from the 
Commonwealth Government to the State Minister for Community Welfare, to the State committee for the implementation of the Plan, to the social planning secretariat thence to advisory committees and regional councils which in turn deal with local committees or projects. That is the line of communication. Funds go from the Commonwealth Government through to the State Treasury, then to the State committee for the implementation of the Australian Assistance Plan and finally to local committees or projects. Significant costs must be hidden in the system as a result of all those bureaucratic factors. 
I intend to refer to recommendations in this report but first I should perhaps mention the breakdown of some of these administrative costs. For each region there is an executive officer costing about $15,500, a project officer costing $11,000, an administrative officer costing about $ 1 1 ,000 and a secretary-receptionist costing $7,500. There are on-costs of $5,680 and administration costs, which include a car and all sorts of things amounting to $15,000 plus, making up the $66,000. I point out further that another $12,000 is allocated for community development officers who are not incorporated in this. 
The recommendations in the report ask the Government to commit in the 1976-77 Budget $ 13.5m, rising to $39m for the full implementation of the program in 1980-81. This is a significant amount of money. I should point out that the $13.5m which is recommended would include administrative costs of $6m, according to the report. So it would cost $6m to hand out $7. 5m. On those figures I think that we seriously question whether the plan is worth continuing. 
I direct attention to the minority report of Professor Harris. He disagrees with the two basic principles on which the Australian Assistance Plan is founded. The first was the need for regional social planning and the regionalisation of welfare services. He says that he now supports the approach based on the localisation of welfare services and social planning. In his very well argued minority report he also disagrees with the second principle underlying the Australian Assistance Plan- that is, to establish what is in reality a new statutory regional advisory organisation. A lot of areas need to be looked at in terms of social security and welfare in Australia. 
I do not want to deprive Australians of an adequate social security system. I believe that we ought to be looking at it in the terms which have been laid down by the Liberal and National Country Parties in their campaign policy. This covers areas such as a uniform income benefit, inquiring into proposals for a minimum family income, looking at ways and means of wiping out the multitude of individual programs which now exist in the social welfare system and implementing a single program for which people could qualify in a multitude of different ways. 
Today the Government is faced with a massive problem brought about by the mis-management of the former Government. We have to do something about the enormous deficit, in the interests of bringing down the inflation rate and doing something about unemployment. I am suggesting tonight that the Government should look seriously at the recommendations in the report of the Social Welfare Commission on the Australian Assistance Plan. It recommends the provision of $ 13.5m in the next Budget. That amount will rise to nearly $40m in the next few years. Whilst not significant in the total context of government expenditure, these amounts are significant when compared with the other cuts which are being made. If we are looking at fairly small cuts in the light of the Government's financial activities then I think that these amounts should be looked at seriously, because I do not believe that any government could accept the recommendation in a report which asks for administrative expenses of $6m in order to hand out to people an amount of $7. 5m. 
It gives me a great deal of pleasure to take part in this debate. I am surprised, I must admit, that it came on at all. My view was that the Opposition would not wish to enter into an economic debate in this Parliament. We heard from the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  this afternoon. He is the Australian Labor Party's fourth spokesman on economic matters in 4 years. The Labor Party has been through 3 Treasurers. Now, in Opposition, it has elected to put yet another man in the position of economic spokesman. 
-The feeling is that next week the Opposition's present economic spokesman could find his position usurped by a former Treasurer who has deigned to come back to the front bench, at the behest of his Party colleagues. 
-I support the honourable member for Hindmarsh. It should not be likely, because the problems that Australia is facing today are as much the result of the policies of the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  as of those of the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  and those of the man who was in the middle of the two of them, the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns).  I hope that the honourable member for Adelaide will produce on behalf of his Party a more coherent policy which can be considered seriously by the Australian electorate. 
The record of the previous Government was disastrous. It was not disastrous in any minor way. It affected every sector and every home in Australia. It was felt by the manufacturing sector. Its policies affected the minerals sector, the rural sector and even the consumers. The previous Government proposed policies and altered policies during the period of its administration in such a way that there was no certainty in economic policy at any stage. There was uncertainty. There were no guidelines as to economic policy. In fact, there was no policy at all. It was changed  ad hoc,  at whim and with the changes in personnel in the Treasury portfolio. I instance only a few examples of the  ad hockery  and mismanagement of the former Government. We could look, firstly, at the wages policy and the use of the public sector and government employees as a pacesetter, not only in terms of wages but also in terms of superannuation. I instance also the tariff changes, the revaluations of the Australian dollar, the alterations in sales taxes, the alterations in the level of company taxation, the introduction of the payment of tax by companies quarterly, the rising costs caused by inflation and the squeeze on profits, which was mentioned by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports. I point out to him that profits' share of the gross domestic product in 1971-72 was 15.4 per cent. In 1972-73 it was 15.9 per cent. In 1973-74, with the Labor Party's policies beginning to work, it fell to 14.8 per cent. It still was not disastrous. In 1974-75 it fell to 1 1.8 per cent. It went to a low of 10.6 per cent. The honourable member says that it has risen by 10 per cent; it is 1 1 .9 per cent. So it is. It ought to be, historically, about 15 per cent or 16 per cent. 
If there is to be any incentive to the great producing sectors of our economy, if there is to be any incentive for people to provide the jobs, there must be a reasonable degree of return on investment To members of the Opposition I say that that means profit. They do not understand that. All they are interested in doing is feathering the nests of their unionists and improving the conditions of their workers. They do not understand that by doing exactly that they are reducing the opportunities for employment. There is no alternative, because the cake is only so big. If they want to cut a greater slice of that cake and give it to one sector, they do so at the peril of the other sector, because of the partnership arrangement. 
I appreciate the compliment from an eminent rabble rouser of long experience. I cannot put too strongly the point that there must be an understanding between both sectors- those who employ and those who work- because each is offering something and each expects a return. The worker expects a fair return for his labour. I believe that he should get it. I do not believe that his return should be exorbitant; nor do I believe that the profit of the employer should be exorbitant. The Opposition, when in government, did not understand that and was set upon redressing what it saw as the imbalance as a result of 20 years of LiberalCountry Party suppression of the workers. It was just not on. Free enterprise balances. When governments interfere with free enterprise there is a price to pay. This Government's philosophy is about withdrawing and getting the dirty fingers of government out of the lives of people and out of the management of the economy, in terms of the private sector and its relationships with the other sectors. I believe that in doing that, with the minimum intervention by the Government, we will get the best response and we will get the greatest benefit to the economy. The greatest benefit to the economy means that everybody gets a greater share. 
The previous Government laid great emphasis on the world situation and the effects that was having on Australia. It has been demonstrated, I believe, beyond doubt that certainly an inordinately high proportion of the situation that existed in Australia was brought about by that Government. Our responsibility now is to redress the imbalance of the last 3 years and to see that our economy is put back on its feet. This Government does not believe that its prime concern is to redistribute the wealth of Australia. The prime concern of this Government is to see that the wealth of Australia is increased. The Labor Party in government could not see beyond the redistribution of the country's wealth and it lost track of the creation of wealth. In fact, despite the arguments put forward by the respected honourable member for Melbourne Ports, who was a former and the first Treasurer of the Labor Administration, gross domestic product in the last financial year was down in real terms, and the figures show that it was down. There is no argument about it. That Government ought to have been concerned not with handouts, not with that redistribution, but with the creation of a stronger economy. 
We are talking about the GDP at real cost. Of course, if we have got 20 per cent inflation all the figures are going to be distorted. In his statement the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  pointed out that over a generation $100-1 think these are the figures, but in any case it was a very interesting calculation- will become worth a cent if on an annual basis the inflation rate continues at 14 per cent. That is the sort of thing which people on the honourable member's side of the Parliament are prepared to accept; we do not. We want to do something about the situation. The first thing that has to be done if we are to do something about it is to accept restraint. We have got to have a situation in which the Government is prepared to look at its own expenditure. The first thing that this Government did when it came into office was just that. The Bland Committee is looking into this matter. Honourable members opposite will not like its report, and we will not like it very much either, but it has to be accepted by this Government, because if it is not accepted we will never be able to curtail the involvement of government in the community. 
You had a fair go this morning,  Mr Cameron;  you had an excellent go. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! I suggest that the honourable member address the Chair. 
-The Government of the day has to create an environment in which everybody can participate- in which workers can work, in which producers can produce and in which growth can take place. That is what our philosophy is. We do not want to create a system of dependence of individuals in greater and greater numbers on the Government, firstly for work and, secondly, for handouts. We are not interested in that. We take the view that a certain sector of the community has to be protected and that another sector of the community has to be restrained. However, one fact that has to be accepted is that by and large, and as far as possible, the individual has to accept the responsibility for himself, and the Government has to accept the responsibility for as few people as possible. The Government of the day has to recognise- I think this is the crux of the federalism policy which we will be introducing- that there are States and that those States have got massive responsibilities in the areas of health, education, Aborigines and a whole range of things, and that those States' governments are charged with the responsibility of looking after those areas. The 
Federal Government should not have to dabble too much in those sectors of the administration of the nation. The Federal Government's responsibility, in my view, is to co-ordinate, to see that there are not great disparities between different States. I think that is something which ought to be accepted and understood. 
If we can accept that, we can disband 85 per cent of our Department of Education; we cannot have a significant Department of Tourism; we can break down Federal responsibility in the administration of Aboriginal affairs; and we can reduce Federal responsibility in so many other areas, because there is no requirement for duplication of administration. If honourable members opposite want to argue that the Government in Canberra is the one that does all these things, then they have got to wipe out the States. If that is the argument they want to put up, then they should put it up. But we cannot have a system in which everybody is climbing over everybody else, in which everybody is competing with everybody else, and in which everybody is spending unnecessary fortunes in administration costs because of duplication in those administration costs. This Government, I hope and believe, will take giant strides in the removal of duplication, in cutting down the unnecessarily large size of the Federal Public Service and the enormous costs related to it. 
I believe that there has to be a very close look- the Government has already expressed that this is its view- at the priorities and the programs of the previous Government. Although, in individual and in isolated terms, people are prepared to accept that the National Employment and Training scheme is good, that the Regional Employment Development scheme may have had some benefits, that the Australian Assistance Plan and the Australian Improvement Program may have had some intrinsic value in view of the economy of the time and the difficulties that are faced by the economy of the time, these things may have to be deferred. They may, indeed, have to be eliminated. 
I believe there has to be a very close and detailed look- I know that the Government intends to undertake that detailed look- at so many of the expensive programs which, although they may be worth while in themselves, cannot be justified in the present economic climate. I think the important aspect of the Government policy, as was pointed out so ably by the honourable member for Berowra  (Dr Edwards)  is that we have a philosophy. We are prepared to lay down the guidelines. We are prepared to have them debated, which is something the Opposition, when in government, never would do. We are prepared to have them discussed but, above all, we are desirous of saying to the business community, to the private sector, to the wage earners and to everybody who is involved in our economy: 'We are trying to set you guidelines which will continue and which will be consistent for a period of time in which you can make your economic decisions in the knowledge that those economic decisions will not be changed next week, next month or some other time.' We, at least, will offer the most important thing that the business community and the economy could ask for- that is, consistency of policy. If we can achieve that, we will have done a great deal for the Australian economy. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I do. About 15 minutes ago  Mr Deputy Speaker  Lucock pointed out to the House that on 3 occasions yesterday I had taken a point of order without having risen from my seat. My point of personal explanation is that on one occasion yesterday, which is recorded in  Hansard  at page 985, without rising from my seat I asked the Chair to protect me. I did not wish to take a point of order and it was only when  Mr Deputy Speaker  Martin did not ask for a withdrawal of words by an honourable member that I was required to stand and take a point of order. 
-The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  has come into the chamber this afternoon again clutching at straws. In the midst of all his own personal problems over his leadership, over the bankruptcy of his Party's policy, philosophy and financial situation, I suppose, he has come in here and tried to build up his own confidence and his own position by clutching at what he regards as an indefensible action by this Government. The man comes into this chamber and talks about moral bankruptcy, distorted priority and- I quote him- a grotesque sense of social justice. He spoke of a waste and an extravagance to the extreme and a handout to the handful. This man is the past master of the handout. I say 'past master' with a great degree of confidence because there is absolutely no chance that the people of Australia will give him the opportunity of being the master again. Now, with his tail between his legs, he leaves the chamber. 
For the duration of what is one of the most significant debates for a large section of the Australian community one member of the Australian Labor Party has been in the chamber, that member being, at the time the debate started, the Opposition spokesman on agricultural matters. The debate has progressed, and at this stage he is now the shadow Minister representing the shadow Minister in another place who, during the suspension of the sitting, was endorsed as the Opposition spokesman on agriculture. I refer to that man with a magnificent and unsurpassed knowledge of rural industries,  Senator Gietzelt. 
It is true.  Senator Gietzelt,  the fledgling member of the shadow Executive, has been given the significant responsibility of agriculture, which was beginning to be understood by the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating). 
-I can make that claim. I will challenge you to a debate on these matters at an appropriate time. The former Prime Minister came into this chamber with a speech which had been prepared for him by somebody else on a subject that he does not understand. He had to have a quorum called to get one or two members of his Party into the House. He had the hide to come in here and accuse this Government of having distorted strategies and of making handouts. This man introduced the Regional Employment Development scheme and presided over the National Employment and Training scheme. This man presided over the greatest handouts to Aborigines that this country has seen. This man introduced more allowances, more schemes, more systems of getting something for nothing and gave away more free lunches than any other Prime Minister. This man presided over the increase of the deficit in this country to a figure of $4,500m in a year, and running higher. This man had the audacity to come into the House and tell us that the $30m, which is honouring an election promise, is a grotesque sense of social justice, that it represents moral bankruptcy and distorted priorities and that it is a waste and an extravagance. 
I ask the Australian community to put this matter into some sort of perspective. Despite what the Leader of the Opposition might think, despite the fact that this man told us a couple of years ago that we had never had it so good, the rural industries, with the exception of a couple of sectors, are without doubt in one of the greatest depressions ever. They still represent the second largest force in the Australian economy, behind the great mining industries. By and large, 100 000 wool producers, a significant number of cattle producers, the fruit producers and the rice producers in the electorate of my colleague the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan ) are about to go out of business. Those who are in a reasonable financial position in the rural industries in Australia today are very few. We must bear in mind the policies which were introduced by the Government which was led by the honourable gentleman who has just spoken in the debate and who has since disappeared. The policies over which he presided did more than any other policies at any other time to cripple the industries that we are discussing today. This man reduced the assistance to the industries in one way or another from over $300m in a financial year to less than $30m in a financial year. That is his record against an industry which has done more than any other industry to make Australia the country over which he was able to preside and bleed for his own ends. 
For the benefit of the honourable member for Blaxland, I think it is worth pointing out that it was demonstrated in the House this morning that the Leader of the Opposition was responsible for the expenditure of $1,520,000 in the last couple of years on his own overseas junkets. He had the hide to come in here and accuse us of extravagance. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  revealed yesterday that this man was responsible for the expenditure of $250,000 in one financial year on the maintenance of his 2 official residences. He comes in here and says that we have been extravagant and have our priorities wrong. 
I appreciate your opinion,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  We are discussing significant legislation. I want to be associated with it. The former Prime Minister on behalf of a bankrupt Party was the greatest champagne purchaser of all times. He was prepared out of public funds to subsidise the champagne industry. 
-That is right, but he is not prepared to support the greatest industries in Australia. The bankruptcy of the Opposition in rural matters is made perfectly clear by the fact that it has 3 speakers in this debate as against eleven from the Government side. It is important that the people of Australia and the Parliament understand the priorities of the Opposition. We all realise the actions it took when in government. 
The Leader of the Opposition specifically said that it was the first time in history, as far as he was aware, that a specific benefit had been conferred upon 6 members of the Cabinet by a decision of the Government. The former Minister for Administrative Services, in the dying days of the Labor Government, changed the rules about who could have Commonwealth cars after they left the Parliament. This was for the benefit of a minority in the Labor Cabinet. We were forced to change the position in the interests of equity, justice and seeing that the Australian taxpayer's dollar is spent in a proper manner. 
The legislation is important. The industry to which it refers is important. The Leader of the Opposition showed arrogance in making the speech he made this afternoon. I suggest that his speech has done more for the continuation in office of the present Government than has any other single factor that he may have influenced or in which he had a part in recent years, including his original statement that farmers had never had it so good. I would have liked to give him an extension of time. I will ask  Hansard  whether it is possible for me to have a thousand copies of his speech for distribution in my part of the country, because I believe there is a responsibility on all of us to make sure that the people in the countryside understand and appreciate the Leader of the Opposition and the paltry numbers of supporters that he brings back into this chamber with him. 
One of the major criticisms levelled at this legislation is that it will benefit the wealthy grazier and, to use the Leader of the Opposition s words, the Pitt and Collins Street farmers who make up the majority of the farming community. Certainly a benefit will accrue to graziers with larger properties but also an indisputable benefit will be given to virtually every producer in this country, because to some extent everybody uses superphosphate. That extent depends on the size of the investment. I think it should be understood by members of the Opposition that a man who gets $5,000 by way of subsidy first has to buy something like $30,000 worth of superphosphate. That superphosphate has a permanent benefit to the Australian soil and to productivity. It is ludicrous to say that a man with more acres making a bigger investment should not benefit. In my view there is no argument about it. A man with a small acreage buys a small amount of superphosphate, but he will get exactly the same percentage benefit as the man with more country buying more superphosphate. 
It is specious to suggest that the legislation is being introduced in the interests of the big farmers, because everybody who uses superphosphate will benefit. This argument, of course, comes from the side of the House that says that Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd is terrible because it makes a couple of million dollars profit. Honourable members opposite never relate these things to the amount of investment involved. The fact that BHP makes about 0.06 per cent on its invested capital is not mentioned. If BHP were able to make a decent return on its capital its profit would be significantly higher. I trunk the same argument ought to be advanced in relation to superphosphate. Sure there are big fellows who will benefit, but they have enormous investments. They have multi-million dollar businesses, but they are making very small, if any, returns. Most are making a loss. I ask the honourable member for Darling  (Mr FitzPatrick),  if he wishes to enter the debate at a later stage, to talk to us about the broad acre western leases in his part of New South Wales. Sure some people have a lot of land, but they have to put out a lot of superphosphate, and they cannot afford to do it. These people are making a marginal profit if any profit at all. The Leader of the Opposition's insult to the intelligence of this nation by saying that a man with a big property will get a big bounty is absurd. 
The legislation is important. I have only one regret about it. I would have preferred the timing of its introduction to be a little different. I think we have honoured our promise. We have brought in the bounty as we said we would. It will have significant benefits for the Australian farming and cropping lands. There is no doubt that it is needed. Conditions in rural communities today are by and large disastrous. We all have a responsibility to understand and to do what we can as legislators for what are undoubtedly the important sectors of our economy. 
The honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Sainsbury)  made an intelligent contribution to this debate. He made a point that not many Australians understand. This Opposition which talks about priorities, subsidies and things of this nature, when in government, introduced arrangements under which there is a $4,000 subsidy for every man and woman working in the motor vehicle industry in Australia. I ask honourable members to relate the number of people involved in the rural industry, the production of rural industry and the miserable government support given to it to the handouts that became so prevalent under the Labor Government, which had no understanding of priorities, which thought that money was as much in over supply as wheat unfortunately was a couple of years ago, which thought that the solution to everything was to keep spending. The principal offender was the then Prime Minister, who for his own personal edification spent $1,520,000 travelling the world with his troop of journalists and offsiders and who spent $250,000 in one year running the 2 residences that he maintained. As has also been pointed out, he was giving serious consideration to establishing another residence for himself in Melbourne in case he - 
-I direct a question to the Minister for the Capital Territory. I refer to a recent statement issued by the Minister in conjunction with  Sir John  Fuller. The Minister will be aware that, despite the acceptance by the New South Wales Government of the recommendations of the Holmwood report on the matter of the extension of the Australian Capital Territory border, there is still great uncertainty among land holders in those regions of New South Wales close to the Australian Capital Territory border. Is the Minister able to give a categorical assurance that there will be no extension of the Australian Capital Territory border into New South Wales? In addition to clearing the air on the border question, does the Minister have any further information on the strategy plan proposals for the joint development of the overtheborder region? 
I give notice that I will not be taking up my full time in this debate. I just want to make a few points and then give the members of the Opposition plenty of time to speak. I am pleased to be following the honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry)  in this debate. Having listened to his speech one could be excused for being left with the impression that this is the most disastrous superannuation scheme that could ever be foisted upon any group of public servants at any time. I, as previous speakers on the Government side of the chamber have done, point out that this scheme is basically what the Public Service has asked for and is basically what the Public Service wants. 
-You just spoke for 20 minutes and you made absolutely no contribution to the debate. You did nothing but complain, moan and whinge. You represent 20 000 or 30 000 public servants. You should be making a significant contribution to this Parliament on their behalf, as is done by the honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem)  and  Senator Knight. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member will address his remarks to the Chair. 
-The honourable member for Fraser said that this legislation is a poor substitute for the legislation brought in last year by the Australian Labor Party when it was in government and that the legislation introduced at that time had been callously rejected by the then Opposition. I want to point out that it was generally accepted by most people and by most reasonable public servants- most public servants are reasonable- that the scheme proposed by the Labor Government at that stage was indeed over-generous. That legislation contained provisions that had not even been recommended by the Melville-Pollard inquiry. By and large that scheme was one which put public servants as a group into a privileged position in our community. As I said earlier, I have a lot of respect" for public servants. I for one do not want to deprive them of any benefits to which they are entitled and do not want to deprive them of any scheme. 
-They are our employees. They are the employees of the Government. I can only assume that the honourable member for Fraser placed an advertisement in the newspapers asking everbody who has a complaint about the proposed scheme to come forward as I think that he gave every conceivable example of who would be disadvantaged by the scheme. He did not give any credit to the Government for the fact that the thousands and thousands of public servants will benefit significantly from this proposal. The major part of his speech was taken up with making excuses and pointing out every possible deficiency. He finished up with the proposition that we are going to have a less efficient Public Service as a result of the introduction of this scheme. 
I do not accept that. I believe that the introduction of this scheme Will make life a lot easier for the vast majority of public servants. It will put money back into the weekly or fortnightly pay packets of the vast majority of public servants. It will do a great deal to improve the retirement benefits ultimately received by the majority of public servants. I do not think that it is possible to introduce a scheme in any area of government administration that does not provide some degree of disadvantage for some members of the community. I am prepared to acknowledge that there may be a few public servants and some groups of public servants who will not be completely advantaged by the implementation of this scheme. I have just taken the view that I could not let the honourable member for Fraser sit down, and I am sure that he would not expect me to let him sit down, without making some comments on his contribution. 
The main point that I want to make in this debate before I resume my seat is that in my view there is a need for an overall look by this Parliament at the Public Service and its structure, administration, responsibilities, relationship with the Government and a whole range of other aspects. As we know, a royal commission under the chairmanship of  Dr Coombs  is presently inquiring into the Public Service. We also know that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has appointed  Sir Henry  Bland to look into other aspects of the Public Service and the administration of this country. There is no doubt that there is a need for reviews of this nature to be done from time to time within the Public Service and that there is a need for the Parliament to give serious consideration to the results of those reviews. I trunk that we are very fortunate in this instance in that we have two inquiries looking at different aspects of the same subject. I think that we probably will be in a better position than most parliaments in that we will be able to look at the findings of two separate inquiries into various aspects of the Public Service. I hope that we will be able to view the results of those inquiries with a degree of maturity and be able to come down with some revised views about what is the attitude of the Parliament and the Government to the administration which serves them. 
I think that there would be little point in arguing in 1976 that the Public Service is not well treated. Going back in time, it is true to say that for a long while the members of the Public Service were the poor relation of other sections of industry and of other sections of the community in that their levels of salary and things of that nature were not necessarily commensurate with those applying outside the Public Service. But the Public Service offered security and a good pension or superannuation scheme, and that was an offsetting factor for those people who were prepared to forgo the salary that they otherwise may have been able to obtain in the marketplace. 
However, that is not necessarily the case today. Over the years we have improved and improved. The Administration of the last 3 years improved at a more rapid rate than had been the case in previous years the lot of the public servants in terms of their salaries and wages, the conditions under which they work, all the various forms of leave which are available to them, and the superannuation scheme which applies to them. It is probably worth pointing out that the necessity for a new superannuation scheme has been intensified by the policies of the former Administration, because it is largely the severe inflation and the increasing wage payments that are being made which have forced up the cost of contributory units and resulted in distinct hardship for a great number of public servants. 
The thing which I regard as being important in relation to this matter is that there must be an overview, and a refreshing overview, of the Public Service and its role in Australia. In this debate today we are preparing to approve a new superannuation scheme for public servants in this country. We know that they are relatively well paid and that their working conditions are good. I do not deny the public servants any of these benefits. What I do say is that the Public Service, for its part, must perform; it must be prepared to play its part; it must make its contribution to government and to the community. If it transpires- I hope it does not- that the Public Service does not perform and is not deserving of the benefits which this Parliament and governments bestow upon it, then changes must be made, and the Public Service must be prepared to accept those changes. If over a period the Public Service in fact is not shaping up, if it is being inefficient or if it is expanding at a rapid rate without any improvement in its performance or in the carrying out of its duties, then I think we have a duty in terms of our administration and responsibility for the taxpayers' funds, to ensure that changes are made which offset what is happening. Changes may need to be made in relation to the permanency of employment in the Public Service if certain things develop. 
I just raise this point, and I do not want to canvass it to any great extent: The Public Service in 1976, and in fact in most of the 1970s, is relatively well off. It cannot be pointed to as an area of deprivation in our community. The salary levels in the Public Service are good. This afternoon I took some figures from Commonwealth  Gazettes.  There is no particular significance in terms of the dates to which they relate. All sorts of variables could apply to them. I simply took out figures in relation to salary increases over the period from June 1971 to June 1975. The percentage increase over that period for a  Clerk  class 2/3 was 64.4 per cent; for a  Clerk  class 5 it was 58.6 per cent; for a  Clerk  class 7 it was 55.3 per cent; and for a  Clerk  class 10 it was 44.6 per cent. Probably the large bulk of public servants would fall somewhere within those ranges. There is no sinister motive on my part in taking out figures in relation to those particular ranges of employment. I just picked them out at random. 
By way of comparison, average weekly earnings in that period from June 1971 to June 1975 increased by 74 per cent. So, although the bases may have been different, the salaries of public servants did not increase by the same amount as average weekly earnings increased. However, the increase in Public Service salaries was still relatively good. Over that same period, from June 1971 to June 1975, the consumer price index increased by 53.8 per cent, which is probably more in line with the average increase in Public Service salaries over that period. The message that comes out of that, to my mind at least, is that the Public Service has been keeping up. It has been argued that the Public Service was a pacesetter for a long time. That may have been the case during a period within the time scale at which I have looked, but I think that during that 4-year period between 1971 and 1975 the Public Service kept pace with the consumer price index and with the increase in average weekly earnings. 
The scheme which we are debating at the moment and which we are introducing will ensure that the public servants are adequately- in fact, very well- catered for in terms of superannuation. We know that their recreation leave, sick pay, maternity and paternity leave arrangements and all of these sorts of things are certainly as good as, if not better than, those which apply to people in industry. The challenge which I put to the Public Service is this: We as a government certainly are not holding it back. We are doing our bit to see that public servants are being well treated by us as employers. The responsibility on the Public Service is to perform for its Government in return. It has to accept the responsibility which goes with the conditions, the rights and the privileges which the Government confers upon it. 
I do not want to say any more than that. I hope that the remarks I have made will be accepted in the spirit in which I have made them. There is no criticism involved; it is just a matter of making a point. I hope that the Public Service does accept the conditions which we as a government are providing in good faith and that the Public Service in its turn will ensure that it performs for its Government. 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations concerning the S weeks old strike by storemen and packers over the size and weight of wool bales. Can the Minister inform the House of the latest position on the strike and whether the Government is in a position to intervene or to take any action to resolve the dispute in the national interest? 
Has the Prime Minister seen recent reports on the possibility of double taxation, particularly in New South Wales? Will the Prime Minister inform the House as to the accuracy of these statements? 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) How many officers of the Department of Social Security are engaged in the administration of the Australian Assistance Plan (a) on a full-time basis and (b) on a part-time basis. 
How many (a) filled and (b) vacant positions are there in the administrative structure of the Australian Assistance Plan apart from positions in the Department of Social Security. 
What is the latest estimate of expenditure from Commonwealth funds in 1975-76. 
What amount of this estimate has or will be allocated to projects approved under the auspices of the Australian Assistance Plan. 
Is it correct to assume that the bulk of funds not allocated to projects is spent on salaries and administrative costs. 
How many social workers are funded from Australian Assistance Plan resources. 
-Speaking briefly, I want to associate the National Country Party with this Acts Citation Bill. The AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Ellicott)  indicated in his second reading speech on this Bill that it contains the necessary legislative provision to enable a simplification to be effected in the method of citation of Commonwealth Acts which have been amended. I think this Bill is welcomed in all sectors of our community which are concerned with these matters. It is my understanding that the legal profession welcomes it and that the Parliamentary Counsel welcomes it. By and large the Parliament is happy with it. It is not being opposed by the Opposition and it should have the effect of reducing the opportunity for misleading titles to the legislation this Parliament passes. 
For a long time there has been a degree of confusion over the use of the double citation. It always has been difficult for legal practitioners, the general public and other interested people to know whether an Act has been amended since the date of the last citation which appears on the copy of the Act which may be available. It is significant that the single citation is used in many other countries similar to ours, namely Canada, New Zealand, South Africa and, basically, the United Kingdom. It is also used in New South Wales, Victoria and Tasmania. Perhaps the experience of New South Wales is indicative of the problems caused by double-year citations. For a period New South Wales did use the system which we presently use in the Commonwealth but then it reverted to using the one-year system which is used in Victoria and Tasmania. The Parliamentary Counsel in New South Wales did revert to the system of single-year citation which we are about to adopt and I think the experience in the Commonwealth will be similarly advantageous. 
I agree with previous speakers that there is a requirement to keep before the AttorneyGeneral and the Government the need for continued consolidation of legislation and for all forms of legislation to be readily available. I think some credit is due to the former Administration for its decision and action in consolidating the Acts of the Parliament. This was the first time it had been done for a considerable number of years. Although a reasonable amount of expense is involved I think this is a practice which ought to be continued on a regular basis. It ought to be encouraged by the Parliament. It is very difficult to deal with legislative matters if we cannot readily obtain the basic or source material. I believe the Attorney-General has this matter under review and that he will continue to see that legislation is available and that consolidations are not unnecessarily delayed. I do not want to extend the debate- I realise there are a lot of other things to be done- but I want to associate myself and my Party with this Bill. I thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  for the opportunity of speaking in this debate. 
I was informed this morning that a matter of public importance, double taxation, had been listed on the notice paper for today. I asked my Party's Whip which member on the Government side had asked for that matter of public importance to be debated and was informed that the request did not come from our side, the Government side, but that it came from the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam),  no less. I could not believe it. We know the subject and we have heard the contribution of the Leader of the Opposition. It is clear and beyond doubt that the Leader of the Opposition thinks that he must make some nominal effort in the campaign being conducted in New South Wales. He was told in no uncertain terms that he was not wanted in New South Wales, that he was  persona non grata  in that State. 
In fact, as the honourable member for Riverina points out so ably, he is not wanted anywhere. However, the word filtered through to the Labor Party machine in New South Wales that the Leader of the Opposition was giving some thought to raising in the Federal Parliament this week matters which might be beneficial to Labor's cause. As I hear the news the word came back, very strongly, from the organisation in New South Wales that if he insisted on doing so he should make sure that he did not do it on a day when the proceedings of this House were being broadcast. Here we are now, when the proceedings are not being broadcast, dealing with a matter which is supposed to be in the interests of the Labor Party in New South Wales where the State election will be held this week. We are doing it on a nonbroadcast day, on a day when members of the Labor Party in New South Wales hope that there will be very little publicity arising from the fact that this subject has been raised. 
-When the proceedings are being broadcast I am sure that members of the Labor Party here will be talking about all sorts of other interesting things. The Leader of the Opposition accused this Government of a total departure from established fiscal practice and went on to make some comments about what he called double taxation. To my way of thinking this is a classic case, similar to those on which the Labor Party has embarked so often in the last 3 years. It learned from the 'honourable'  Dr Goebbels,  from whom it learned so many other things, that if you say things often enough people will start to believe them. 
There is no double taxation in this federalism policy. There is no room for double taxation. It has been pointed out and ably argued that there is to be no double taxation. The Labor Party chose to bring this matter before the Parliament and we have found difficulty in talking to the point for 10 minutes or 15 minutes, as the case may be, simply because one can stand up in this Parliament and say there is no double taxation. It takes about 5 seconds to say that and one then is faced with thinking of something else to say for the remainder of the 10 or 15 minutes. This is the problem which we on the Government side face today. 
The honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  came forward and said that he was going to make some mention of the election in New South Wales. He certainly did. He mentioned very little else. He certainly did not make much reference to double taxation. The honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  attempted to make a contribution but it turned out to be nothing more than a series of  non sequiturs  and illogical arguments. It is quite apparent that the New South Wales Labor Party had passed the word to other Federal honourable members from New South Wales that they should not take part in this debate. The Leader of the Opposition was unable to find any other honourable member from New South Wales prepared to take part in the debate. The Opposition had to turn to a Victorian representative and a South Australian representative to come forward and make some contribution which the Leader of the Opposition thought might assist in some way the cause of the Labor Party in New South Wales. 
The points raised by the Opposition were raised in a very shoddy fashion. No logical arguments have been put forward and statements alleged to have been made have not been backed up. The honourable member for Adelaide, a fan, protege and other such things of  Mr Dunstan,  the 
South Australian Premier, had to find excuses for the fact that his Premier had approved in glowing terms of the federalism policy of this Government. It seems incredible that a Federal member has to come into this place and justify his Premier's acceptance of a particular proposal put forward by this Government. The only adverse comment that could be found, as a result of digging deep into the newspaper clippings in the Parliamentary Library, was made way back in the beginning when the Queensland Premier indicated that this policy was a return to the dark days. The Queensland Premier and the Queensland Treasurer made that statement way back before anything was known about what was proposed under this policy. They may have been entitled to do so in ignorance but now, knowing the facts, the Queensland Premier is enthusiastic, as is  Sir Eric  Willis, and is  Mr Rupert  Hamer, as is  Mr Don  Dunstan, as is  Sir Charles  Court, and as is the Premier of Tasmania,  Mr Neilson.  They are all enthusiastic about this proposal. The Opposition had to go a long way back to some incredibly old, almost ancient statement to find anything ever said by a Premier to indicate that he was even vaguely antagonistic to the proposals put forward by this Government. 
The fact of the matter is that this policy put forward by this Government and accepted in principle by the States relates to tax sharing, to revenue sharing. It does not relate to revenue or taxation increases. It does not relate to double tax. Nowhere is there provision for double tax. Nowhere has the suggestion been made that there will be or may be double tax. This is a proposal for carving up the revenue which comes to the Federal Government in such a way that all arms of government get a fair share of it. The spending of money must bring with it some responsibility. That is what this policy is about. We do not want to continue to develop a situation as developed in the last 3 years when the Commonwealth Government's revenue increased by about 140 per cent, the State governments were lucky if they got an increase of 20 per cent per annum and the State governments were not answerable for the money they spent. One of our objectives in introducing and implementing this policy is to see that people understand who is spending the money they are paying in taxation. That is what the policy is about. 
At a later stage provision will be made to enable the States, at their option, to impose a surcharge or make a rebate of up to a couple of per cent on the amount of money they receive from the Federal Treasury. That is not double taxation; it is a surcharge or a rebate which may be applied at the option of a State. By no means can that aspect of our policy be interpreted as double tax. 
An election campaign is in progress in New South Wales and the fact that the misguided Leader of the Opposition thinks he may be able to gain some advantage by creating scare tactics in telling the people of the States- of New South Wales in particular- that they will be taxed to a greater extent and more frequently is nothing more than propaganda designed to break down confidence. This attitude is already to some extent causing a breakdown in the negotiations which are continuing for the satisfactory implementation of this policy. In referring to a breakdown I instance that the New South Wales Leader of the Opposition has already indicated that he will not go along with the Commonwealth's proposals. If by some tragedy of chance, which will not happen, he were elected as Premier of New South Wales on Saturday next he would be the only person out of step and there would be a major flaw, a major chink, in the policy we are implementing. 
The fact is that the Commonwealth Government is voluntarily putting itself into a position where the growth of its own revenue will not be as great as it has been in recent years. This aspect is important. Obviously the Commonwealth Government's income will grow, but it will grow at a slower rate than the 140 per cent total by which it grew during the 3 years of Labor administration. The Government will be forced to be more efficient. The Government, in consultation and co-operation with the States, will be forced to reduce the massive duplication of services maintained by governments at present. These matters are important. The State governments, which have been starved, are entitled to a fairer share of the revenue. Because their effective and relative share of revenue was reduced by the Whitlam Government it has been necessary to totally realign and re-assess present financial policies. I am proud to support the Government on this issue. 
It is interesting that the Opposition is opposing this motion. It is surprising to me that the Opposition would want to oppose a motion which is to set up a committee which will have effective scrutiny of a great deal of the financial activity of the Government and its related departments and authorities. However, that is the case. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on 16 March, in moving for the appointment of a joint committee on committees for the Parliament, said: 
The quality of the democratic process is enhanced to the degree that decisions are based on proper examination of the issues, to the extent that those affected by governmental decisions can be consulted and have a chance to be heard before decisions are taken. 
He went on to say: 
The Parliament ought to be the place above all where policy can be fully debated and where legislation can be subjected to close and effective scrutiny. 
The Government believes that there is much to be gained from improved financial scrutiny of departments of the Executive. Honourable members will be aware of the Government's concern to minimise waste and to maximise efficiency in government expenditure. 
He continued: 
The Government believes that at the present time this process of formation of the estimates is not subject to adequate scrutiny by this House. People are elected to this House, to this Parliament, to ensure, amongst other things, that their tax moneys are well used. If it is to fulfil that trust, the Parliament must have adequate instruments of supervision and control at its disposal. 
The Government reconstituted that Joint Committee on Committees for the Parliament. I think it is entirely within the Government's ambit of responsibility also to say that it believes that the scrutiny of estimates is of sufficient importance that it wishes to institute a committee which will have the responsibility of looking at those estimates, studying those estimates and keeping a general watchdog eye over the financial activity of government and its departments during the course of the year. 
On 8 April the Prime Minister moved for the establishment of an expenditure committee of this House. At that time he said: 
The establishment of an expenditure committee marks an important step in the Government's policy of strengthening the parliamentary system. It is fundamental to an effective system of representative government that the people's representatives should be able adequately to supervise and review the activities of government administration. The Parliament should be able to subject policy, legislation and administration to close and effective scrutiny. 
He also said at that time: 
The expenditure committee will greatly improve the capacity of this House to scrutinise public expenditure and improve Parliament's capacity to act as an able and effective watchdog over the affairs of the Government. 
There is a need for greater in-depth examination of public expenditure in relation to effectiveness and economy in the delivery of given Government policy. 
I do not think that there is very much there that could be disagreed with. Yet the first words that were spoken by the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  as he led for the Opposition in this debate were: 
It is the intention of the Opposition to oppose the establishment of a standing committee on public expenditure at this stage. 
It seems to me that the Opposition is demonstrating its traditional irresponsibility in opposing this motion.  (Quorum formed)  I do not know whether the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes),  who called for the quorum, has any schools in his electorate or whether amongst the two or three thousand people interested in the subject of education there are any parents or teachers here to see him today, on E Day, but it should be pointed out - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drummond)The point of order is upheld. The honourable member for Hume will confine his remarks to the subject before us. 
-I just wanted to make the passing comment,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that on this day when there are three or four thousand - 
Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  Before the quorum call which drew so many honourable members away from their constituents in King's Hall and around the House on E day I was about to make reference to the fact that the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  seemed to wish to disagree with his Party's policy. I think that as the shadow spokesman on Treasury matters and as the former  Chairman  of the Public Accounts Committee, he probably realises the importance of the establishment of this expenditure committee. However, I quote his words. He said: 
I too agree that it is necessary for the Parliament to take a far greater and closer interest in the expenditure of government . . . 
It is pleasing to see that there are some members of the Opposition who wish to take that line and not to follow the Opposition approach of just opposing this Bill. But in the time that is left to me I should like to mention the fact that one of the important things is the great degree of coordination which will be necessary between the Public Accounts Committee, of which I have had the privilege of being a member in the last 2 Parliaments, and the new and proposed public expenditure committee in their operations. There is provision for the  Chairman  of the Public Accounts Committee, at present the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly)  to be an  ex officio  member of the expenditure committee. I think that this is very proper. There is a need to see that there is a co-ordination between the activities of these 2 committees, but I think that there is certainly room for both of them. It is essential, particularly at these times of economic hardship, that the House of Representatives exercises in its own capacity and right adequate scrutiny over the estimates. 
The Public Accounts Committee has specific duties under the Public Accounts Committee Act. It is required to report on the form of the public accounts and the method of keeping them, on the mode of receipt, control, issue or payment of public money. It is also required to report on any items or matters in the public accounts or in the Auditor-General's report to which, in the opinion of the Committee, the attention of the Parliament should be drawn. The Public Accounts Committee has no power to bring about any changes in the matters in relation to which it has statutory duties. Due to the importance of maintaining an essentially political role it has been criticised for exercising its powers with caution. Nevertheless, we believe that the very existence of the Committee and the publicity which its hearings and reports receive, act as a restraining measure both on government and particularly on departments and instrumentalities on which public funds are spent. 
Evidence recently given to the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration on the role and performance of the Public Accounts Committee, although in my view somewhat misleading, has highlighted a number of problems which the Committee faces in the effective performance of its duties. There is no doubt that there are few institutions within the framework of Parliament which should have more potential power than the Public Accounts Committee. The Committee is supported by an effective staff. The capacity to employ outside specialist advisers would help it to be able to play a significant role in the parliamentary control of expenditure. In my opinion both the Public Accounts Committee and the new expenditure committee will suffer from the fundamental problem of the acute shortage of time in which to conduct their duties. I think these views have been supported by all previous speakers in this debate. 
To some extent this could be overcome by the establishment of sub-committees but in turn their capacity to be effective will, to a large extent, depend upon the provision of adequate specialist staff. Parliament 's ability to improve its capacity for financial review of public expenditure is dependent upon the committees being serviced by efficient and well qualified staff. In my opinion this is a necessary pre-condition if Parliament is to have any hope of maintaining its critical role in line with the changes in the appropriation system which are currently being debated and which are directed at giving greater administrative flexibility and managerial discretion to departments. It will also be necessary for Parliament, through the Public Accounts Committee and the expenditure committee, to initiate a serious examination of the growing trend in recent years towards the establishment of statutory authorities on the misguided assumption that by taking the functions of government out of the direct review of Parliament and ministerial direction more efficient administration will result. 
For this purpose I believe the Public Accounts Committee Act will require amendment to ensure that wherever public funds are spent the committees of the Parliament shall have the power of review. The Parliament's review mechanism through the committees must also take into account such recent developments as oneline appropriations for statutory authorities, triennial appropriations for departments such as Defence and Education and the likelihood of program budgeting being introduced on a more general scale. All these significant changes in public administration will require that the committees have the capabilities to review not merely accounting irregularities but also management systems adopted by departments, the development of programs, the implementation of policy and the expenditure of public funds. I believe that the establishment of the expenditure committee and the review of the Public Accounts Committee Act, which should be carried out concurrently but which looks like being carried out later, will be in a sense revolutionary in terms of the parliamentary review mechanism. If Parliament has lost its influence and has failed in the past to keep up to date with the evolution of public administration we have only ourselves to blame. There is undoubtedly a dynamic role for both the Public Accounts Committee and the expenditure committee in returning to this Parliament a degree of effective criticism of the performance of government administration that has been sadly lacking in the past. 
The National Country Party and I are very pleased to be associated with this measure. The scope is enormous. The challenge is also enormous. The times are difficult. I fully support the Prime Minister in introducing this measure before the receipt by the Government of the report of the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System. I believe the expenditure committee to be essential. It should have been set up years ago. I do not understand why it was not. Despite what the Committee on committees might say it is my view, and I believe the Government's view, that the expenditure committee is necessary, warranted and must be established. Should the Committee on committees report differ I for one would be prepared to oppose the Committee on committees in that respect. This House of the Parliament and we as elected representatives are entitled to have scrutiny over the Estimates of the Government. I am amazed that the Opposition is not prepared to support this proposal. It surprises me that the Opposition wishes not to increase the powers of this Parliament by opposing this motion at this time. 
-The Government of the day is placing a great deal of reliance on the economic measures which it has introduced and the economic measures which are being considered at this time for introduction in the next few months. I believe it is opportune for this House to take note of some of the trends that are developing in other parts of the world that affect this particular economy and to look at some of the views that are being expressed in those countries. I refer particularly to the United States of America. Tonight I should like to put to the House some views that are being argued in the United States at the moment and which ought to be considered and of which members of this Parliament and the Government ought to be aware. I emphasise at the outset that the views that I put are views that are being expressed in the United States; they are not necessarily views that I hold myself, but again I think they are views which ought to be considered. 
I start off by saying that there is a great degree of reliance being placed upon the recovery as it is termed in the United States at the moment. Views are being expressed that a genuine recovery is not really taking place in the economy. One of the reasons being argued in the United States is that the fundamental financial position of the United States has undergone far more serious deterioration than is generally realised. A spring can be distorted within reasonable tolerances by applying force such that when the force is removed it will rebound to its original state. However, if the distortion is so great that the spring's inherent tolerances are exceeded it will not recover. Somewhat similar to this, it is being argued that the United States economy has been distorted beyond its inherent capabilities, that it will not recover along statistical trajectories based on past recessions and past recoveries, and that the current popular economic projections radically over-estimate real growth potential and radically under-estimate future inflation and employment levels of the nation. 
It is easy to have a great leap forward if one starts from far enough back. The former levels of economic activity in the United States cannot be achieved without a reversal in a fundamental problem, that is without a reversal toward sound money, money that is worth saving, that is worth lending and that is worth investing. I think that these are lessons which we ought to be applying in our own economy in Australia. The short term bullish factors in the United States, by their very nature must run later into restraints that are inherent in the fundamental disequilibrium in that country. A decade of rampant inflation has created a yo-yo economy in the United States and, in fact, in most Western countries. Specifically- and this is the most severe latent constraint- the crowding out effect that did not materialise in the money markets in 1975 is virtually certain to do so in the late spring and summer, in United States terms, in 1976. The United States Treasury has already budgeted the huge deficit to run through until October and it is expected to tap capital markets for about $70 billion this year- about $18 billion in the first quarter alone. It has to raise the money through the financial markets or else it must print it. We suffer the same constraints. 
Throughout 1975 the United States Treasury was very fortunate in that it had very little competition in borrowing in the financial markets, since corporations generally eased up on capital outlays and generated any necessary funds internally by liquidating inventories, or by floating new equity issues on the crest of the stock market surge in the spring of 1975. Furthermore, in 1975, much of the increased savings deposited by individuals was lent by commercial banks to the United States Treasury as they took down treasury bills to bolster their portfolios in the face of decreased demand for general personal and business loans. The unique situation in the first half of 1975 led to an increase in interest bearing marketable public debt of $33 billion, in contrast to about a $4 billion decrease in the first half of 1974. Fourteen billion dollars, or 42 per cent of this debt, was placed with the commercial banking system without putting noticeable upward pressure on interest rates. 
In other words, the United States Treasury had everything going for it in 1975. Not so in 1 976 if the myriad short term bullish factors continue for even a few more months. Specifically, on the one side, increased consumer credit borrowing together with increased business loans needed to finance inventory and to finance capital expansion, on the demand side, will begin to compete in earnest with the United States 
Treasury which, because of its printing press backing, stands firmly entrenched at the head of the line at the money trough. On the credit supply side, general business and stock market euphoria, orchestrated by the political activities in Washington this year, will cause consumer optimism to surge, resulting in decreased saving rates, increased spending rates and a decrease in the available excess reserves generated by personal savings in the commercial banking system. 
I think it is fair to say that many of these factors which have been experienced in the United States have been, although not necessarily at the same time, experienced in our own financial operations as an economy and as a government. It is argued quite strongly in the United States that the economic recovery which is now under way is not a sound economic recovery. It is a politically induced superficial recovery which must be politically prodded to keep moving. The fundamentals have not changed. I think we have to learn that lesson here, because by and large the problems that we face are not a great deal different from those which have been experienced in recent times in the United States. We have to see that our economy recovers on the right lines, that we are not simply inducing a politically prodded recovery as is being argued is the case in America. The problems of inflation affect most of the Western world to a greater or lesser extent. There are only 2 ways in which runaway inflation, from which we are still not clear, can terminate. One is a crash deflation and depression. The other is a hyper-inflationary money explosion and depression. It appears that there is no third terminal alternative. The efforts of fiscal and monetary officials to steer a middle course is not a real alternative. It is rather a delaying tactic which makes the eventual alternative consequences all the more extreme. The longer this policy is pursued the more likely it becomes that the final outcome will be hyper-inflation. I think that this is one of the things that this Government is trying to attack right at the root. We have to put our house in order in economic terms. We have to see that we do not have the sort of interference in the economy which will not put the economy in the direction which it properly should be taking if in fact we are to solve the problems and avoid a bout of hyper-inflation. 
Much has been said about booms and troughs. It has been argued that it is a misconception that inflationary booms and deflationary busts are inherent in a free market economy. I think it is worth putting a view that has been argued by Austrian economists that actually the periodic booms and busts of history are not business cycles at all; they are not inherent in a free market economy and they are one result of state intervention into the economy. They are actually fiat money, or unbacked paper money, and credit cycles. The classical economists, particularly Ricardo, recognise the essential nature of the cycles. In a nation having a fractional reserve money and banking system, the cycle begins with a money substitute and credit expansion. As the paper money supply increases, money incomes and spending rise in nominal terms. Prices are bid up. There is an inflationary boom. Businesses prosper, even poorly conceived and managed ones. Comparatively, prices abroad look cheap. Imports increase. Domestic products look expensive to foreigners. Exports decrease. Thus, there is a balance of trade deficit and a balance of payments deficit. Real money- gold or silver- is shipped abroad to make up the difference. Thus, the backing for the large paper money and credit supply becomes smaller. At some point the bankers of the nation become concerned that they may not be able to meet future demands for gold and silver payments or, worse yet, that their depositors entertaining the same fear may make a run on the bank. 
The bankers become concerned. They stop making new loans and they stop reissuing their own bank notes that come in. In short, they contract and reverse the inflation period. The inflationary boom turns into a deflationary bust. With a reduced domestic money supply, prices, incomes and spending fall. Business becomes depressed. Comparatively, foreign goods look more expensive and local goods less expensive. Imports decline, exports increase and the balance of trade and payments deficit reverses itself. Gold comes back in. The bankers remain cautious for a time and the depression continues until all of the unsustainable mistakes, distortions and excesses of the preceding inflationary boom have been liquidated. When the surviving businesses adjust their activities to the new situation and eventually get their financial affairs on a sounder footing, they become more creditworthy. The way is then paved for the cycle to begin again whenever the bankers again become over-confident. It is a view which is being argued and of which we should be aware. To some extent it is an argument for keeping government involvement in business and in the economy to a minimum. 
Tonight I want to say a few words about the state of our budget outlays and about some trends. Again I want to refer to the United States experience. I am particularly concerned that Australia may be in for a period of open ended welfare funding. The demands on the welfare vote are showing signs of increasing by very large amounts. I will use some figures from the Australian experience. They are not designed to be misleading. I obtained them from the Budget Speech for last year, which gave figures back to 1965-66. 1 do not want to mislead the House. I hope these figures are representative. I took them at random. The amount allocated for the function of social security and welfare in 1965-66 was $933m. The total outlays in that year were about $5,000m. So the amount of Commonwealth Government outlays for the social security and welfare function was about 18 per cent of the total outlays. In the present financial year, under the last Labor administration, the amount allocated to the social security and welfare function is close to $5,000m. Total government outlays are estimated at something like $22,000m. The figure for the social security and welfare function is approaching 25 per cent of total expenditure. So in 10 years the outlays on the social security and welfare function have risen from 18 per cent to an amount roughly equivalent to 25 per cent. 
I draw the attention of the House to the experience in the United States. Welfare spending increased steadily in the 1960s. It trebled during the decade. In the 1970s it is exploding. In 1970 it had risen to $77 billion. As recently as 1972 it amounted to $1 19 billion, taking 33 per cent of total federal spending. In 1975 it jumped to $159 billion, consuming 48 per cent of total federal spending. In the fiscal year ending June 1 976 it is expected to reach $200 billion and will devour over 50 per cent of total federal spending. It is impossible for this trend to continue without leading to hyper-inflation. The trend, rather than getting better, is expected to get worse, barring a sudden and drastic overhaul of the whole welfare state. All the programs tend to be self accelerating. This is in American terms, but I think it is applicable to Australia. The total about doubled in the decade of the 1960s. It doubled in the 1970 to 1975 half decade. It will double again in the next two or three years. The argument is that it will probably double each year if it is not checked. 
I believe that Australia needs to look at welfare and at the emotional and extreme demands on Federal Government outlays in this direction. I think we must determine a level of welfare spending which is acceptable to the community and to the Government. I think that a figure of something like 25 per cent, which we are presently experiencing, is probably about the maximum. Then we must allocate that amount of money among all our competing welfare functions, in much the same way that there is an acceptable figure for the amount of money that ought to be spent on defence. In recent times we have been told of the acceptable amount of money that can be allocated to foreign aid and things of that nature. Then we must allocate the money within those financial limits. We may need some sort of commission to determine priorities. We may have to accept the recommendations of such a commission. 
I am horrified at the prospect of the politically sensitive area of welfare putting increasing pressure upon the Parliament and upon the Government m relation to the expenditure outlays which the Parliament is called upon to allocate. Obviously there must be a very sympathetic approach to those people in our community who are in need. We must accept the fact that we cannot allow to develop in Australia a situation which would be anywhere near similar to the American experience where something in excess of 50 per cent of the federal Government's outlays are going one way or another into the area of welfare. I ask the House and the Government to give some consideration to this suggestion, because obviously there is a limit on the amount that can be allocated. I hope we are able to get the community to support that proposition and that we do not have a situation in which we, as a parliament, are put in a position of not being able to support the worthwhile aspects of our commitments because of the increasing amount of money that will be needed. Often it is increased by political activity, by bidding up and by the creeping welfare. I do not use that word disparagingly, but the welfare commitment tends to creep. 
I want to say a few words on the deficit and on the implications of it. Deficit spending increases the debt burden in 2 ways. Firstly it increases the Federal debt, upon which interest must be paid. Secondly it pushes up interest rates, which affect everybody. I think it is worth noting that in America in only 4 years interest on the federal debt doubled from $20 billion to in excess of $40 billion. The Americans are now spending 10 per cent of their budget on interest repayments. I hope we learn a lesson from that. With the record Treasury borrowings in America this year and next year, with the likely outlook for interest rates being that they will rise and with Treasury debt issues being mainly short term, they are looking conceivably to a doubling of the interest to $80 billion or more in the next couple of years. I hope we are sufficiently wise to avert that situation in our country. The American budget deficit has risen from $45 billion in 1975 to $78 billion in 1976, an increase of 73 per cent. We just cannot have that same sort of thing happening in Australia. The Americans are starting to realise that in respect of their situation. 
I believe very strongly in the thrust of the Australian Government at the moment in trying to do something about all these problems which must come to Australia and which can result only in higher inflation, a more significant unemployment problem and a longer term situation which will not be in the interests of our economy. I hope we can learn from the American experience. I hope we have the discipline necessary to restrain the Government's desires and to rationalise the demands being made on government. I think it is particularly important that we take note of it in this welfare area. 
-It is a pleasure indeed, as the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Baillieu)  indicated, to take pan in the debate which has been led by the eminent member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  particularly as he has indicated that the Opposition is supporting a Government measure. The Bill before the House is a very technical one. It is a machinery Bill. It is designed to close loopholes which exist in the Foreign Takeovers Act which came into effect on 1 January of this year. The points have all been made quite adequately by speakers who have preceded me, but I think it is probably worth indicating that some of the provisions of this Bill were foreshadowed by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  in his capacity as the shadow Treasurer in October of last year when foreign investment legislation was being debated. At that stage the Treasurer expressed doubts about the relationship between the Trade Practices Act and the Foreign Takeovers Act and indicated that there was a possible area of advantage for foreign owned companies over Australian owned companies in applications before the Trade Practices Commission. Amongst other things, this legislation will remove the interrelationship between the Foreign Takeovers Act and the Trade Practices Act so that foreign interests no longer will be able to obtain automatic approval from the Trade Practices Commission consequent upon approval for their proposal under the Foreign Takeovers Act. 
There are 3 or 4 other machinery matters which are of some substance and which it is appropriate to amend at this time. The substance of the Act does not really change. As has been indicated by other speakers, it is basically a machinery matter. The range of control situations which the Act is designed to cover has run into some problems. Clause 5 extends the area of control by including the words 'or practices' after the word 'arrangements' in section 8 of the principal Act. That is designed to expand the role of the Act in covering all the possible situations. The existing Act also does not exempt share or asset acquisitions which had been approved prior to the commencement of this Act and which had not been effected by that date. It was never intended that the people involved should have to re-apply. Clause 6 alters that situation. 
There has been a problem with the 40-day period laid down under section 26 of the existing Act. It was never intended, as far as we can see, that the 40-day restriction should operate in such a way as to inhibit normal commercial activity. Clause 7 will make the necessary changes so that if the Government agrees with something the 40-day requirement need not be fulfilled. The same thing will apply in regard to increasing shareholdings in an Australian corporation. 
Some doubts have been raised whether transactions in contravention of section 26 would be valid. There is no reason to raise doubts about these transactions. Clause 10 will see that there is no question of invalidity resulting from decisions that might have been made unwittingly in contravention of section 26. That amendment will be retrospective to 1 January, the date on which the Act commenced, so that anybody who may have been technically in breach of the Act will not in fact suffer any consequence as a result of that action. 
It is very much a machinery Bill. As the honourable member for Adelaide pointed out, it is not a compelling piece of legislation. I think the House has agreed unanimously with the initiative of the Treasurer in bringing forward these matters for amendment. I believe that my Party, the National Country Party, is completely behind the Government and the Treasurer, as the Opposition is fully behind the Treasurer on this question. I think there is no point in extending the debate other than to say that the whole area of foreign investment in Australia is one about which everybody in this Parliament shares a significant concern. The measures we are debating will seek to improve the control that the Government has and also to see that the intention of the Act which was introduced last year and which is now being amended will in fact be implemented. I commend the Bill. 
It gives me great pleasure to take part in the second reading debate on the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (Financial Support Fund) Bill 1976, particularly as the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  has again indicated his support for a proposal of the Government. I trunk it is the second time in probably less than a week that I have had the opportunity of speaking in a debate in which the honourable member for Adelaide has indicated the Opposition's support. 
As the honourable member points out, he is an eminently reasonable man, and I have a great deal of hope that he will be able to impose the views he holds upon other members of bis Party. I look forward to an increasing degree of co-operation between the Opposition and the Government in relation to the actions that the Government is trying to take to reduce inflation and unemployment and to deal with the other problems that we face in Australia at the moment. I am sure that if the honourable member for Adelaide is able to argue on this occasion as convincingly as he has on other occasions amongst members of his own parliamentary Party we will see a great deal of co-operation in this Parliament and, before a great deal of time has elapsed, jointly we will see Australia revert to a situation of far greater economic stability and a much larger degree of cooperation in the Parliament. I commend the honourable member for Adelaide for his approach, because it is refreshing, after a period of some years, to find an economic spokesman who is prepared to put to the Parliament on behalf of the Opposition constructive views and who is prepared to argue along the lines that the Government itself would argue in relation to so many of these issues that we face. 
It is a matter of record that the oil crisis which obtained in the world in recent years had a significant effect on the economies of a large number of the trading nations of the world, particularly amongst the OECD countries. As was pointed out by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  in his second reading speech on this Bill the net effect of the oil crises was that the OECD member nations, as a group, went from a situation in which they were running a balance of payments surplus on current account of US$2.5 billion in 1973 to a situation in 1974 in which the current account surplus turned into a deficit of US$33.25 billion. That turn around of something in excess of US$35 billion is representative of the effect largely of the oil crisis and the actions of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries in pursuing the policy on the pricing of oil that they chose to pursue. It is very difficult for many nations to adjust to the burden that that significant turn around has placed upon their domestic economies and their relationship with other countries. 
That is the background to the desire to implement the agreement which has been put by the OECD and which some 8 countries have already ratified. We understand that a further 4 countries are about to do so. It appears that the remainder of the member countries of the OECD hope to be able to implement formal ratification of that proposal by the end of May. It is, I think, one of those examples of significant international co-operation in the field of trade that Australia, in concert with other member countries of the OECD, is prepared to undertake commitments which will assist the world as a trading entity to see that the effects of the oil crisis will not be too long term and will not cause significant degrees of disruption. The Australian economy is significantly dependent on overseas trade and obviously in our economic considerations we have a vested interest in seeing that trade is allowed to continue on a stable and growing basis and that we do not have significant disruptions in the pattern of world trade as a result of events such as the oil crisis. We therefore have a vested interest in seeing that this agreement is implemented. It appears from the support which has been offered by the honourable member for Adelaide- that most reasonable man- that there will not be any difficulties within this Parliament in the ratification by Australia of the agreement. 
A smoothly operating world trade situation, free of major upheavals, is certainly in Australia's interest, and it can only be in Australia's interest. Therefore I think there should not be a great deal of argument about the ratification of this agreement. One of the important features of the legislation is that it has the effect of giving Australia's agreement to the fund, and the fund is intended to play a great role in assisting in the recycling of the funds which flow between developed countries and which will offset the disadvantages which may be felt by individual economies as a result of the oil problems which we have faced in recent years. We hope that we will not have to face the problems again, but it certainly is not beyond the bounds of possibility that they may have to be faced. The implementation of the fund will have the effect of providing a degree of financial cooperation amongst the OECD countries during that adjustment process. I think that that is particularly important. 
One of the main points of the Fund is that the intention is to assist OECD members so they will not have to take unilateral action in terms of trade and other measures which may restrict trade in order to try to alleviate the position which may exist in their own domestic economies as a result of the problems which flowed from the increase in the price of oil. Assuming that countries which are members of the OECD do manage their economies in a sensible fashion, and as long as they take the appropriate internal actions to overcome the problems that they may have encountered, and also as to the best of their ability they have taken the steps that are available to them in terms of other international funding arrangements, then as a provision of last resort this particular fund would come into operation for them. I think it is important from Australia's own budgetary viewpoint that we be clear about just what the implications are in our own economy. The Treasurer has made it quite clear- I think there is no argument on either side of the House about this- that there is no immediate and probably no long term demand on Australia's budgetary resources as a result of our agreement to ratify this arrangement and to be a party to it. 
The system operates in such a way that each country has a quota. That quota is initially provided by way of guarantee. It is only in a last resort situation that any member country may be called upon actually to 'come up with the money', if that is an acceptable term to use. The size of the Fund will be equivalent to $A18.5 billion. The quota that Australia has agreed to meet is $A275m or about 1.5 per cent of that total figure. That is the maximum figure which Australia could conceivably be involved in guaranteeing at some stage or, in an extreme situation, having to fund. Member countries, including Australia, have access to the Fund under the arrangements by which as I indicated earlier and as previous speakers have indicated, they undertake financial domestic management and have made appropiate approaches to other resources of an international kind, statutory deposit reserves and other forms of financial assistance that may be available to them. All these things failing, a country- and Australia could conceivably be included among those countrieshas a right to go to the Fund and request an allocation from it. In that event the Fund will have a couple of options open to it. It can initially call on guarantees from the member and constituent parts of the Fund. It may have to make a direct call upon members, but if that is necessary, it is up to the member nations of the OECD to determine whether or not they will provide cash, whether they will raise loans themselves on the international market or whether they will allow the OECD to come into their own domestic capital market to raise the funds which are necessary. 
It is important to understand that in this legislation there is no circumstance in which there needs to be a direct budgetary impact upon our economy or our own resources. If" the situation should arise in which Australia could be called upon to provide either a direct contribution or a guarantee then Australia could ask the Fund to borrow the required amount of money on its behalf in overseas markets. It is a pretty extreme situation that might occur, but in the event that it did happen that no funds were available on the overseas markets, then the contingent liability which falls to Australia means that it would have to make a decision as to whether it would allow the Fund to borrow in our own capital market or whether Australia would come up with the money. These are pretty remote situations. But even if it were to be the case, Australia would certainly earn a reasonable rate of interest on the funds that it might have to contribute. By and large the Fund is certainly an exercise in international co-operation. It is designed by the OECD to meet the problems of particular countries in overcoming the domestic problems that might arise as a result of the actions of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries which caused what is generally called the 'oil crisis' of the last couple of years. In some countries those problems can be extreme, but any country which is suffering those problems can at least operate in the secure knowledge that there is a lender of last resort in the form of this Fund. The Fund is there as a standby to assist that particular country and its economy to overcome oil crisis-related problems. 
I think the Bill ought to be commended by this Parliament as a whole. I think it is a credit to the OECD that it has been able to negotiate an arrangement which will work to the benefit of its members, an arrangement which will enable the member nations of the OECD, should they have a problem arising from the oil crisis, to have that problem satisfied. That is conditional of course on their having taken the appropriate internal and external measures that may have been required to be taken before they approach this lender of last resort. The National Country Party has given a great deal of consideration to this particular Bill. The National Country Party, as a group, joins with the Liberal Party in wholeheartedly supporting the proposal which is before the Parliament. It is a matter of record that the National Country Party is committed to stability and growth in the overseas trade situation. Considering that no significant problems are developing between Australia as an economy and the other economies with which we have dealings, on this occasion the Party has asked me to make a specific point to the Minister assisting the Treasurer, the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  who is at the table, that the Party is completely foursquare behind the proposals which the Government is putting in this respect. We have a great deal of respect for the OECD as an organisation. We feel that this proposal can only be of benefit to Australia. As such I, my Party, the Government as a whole and, I am pleased to say, on this occasion the Opposition support this action of the Government, thus making a totally united force in this Parliament. I commend the Bill to the House. 
-The Wool Tax Amendement Bills (Nos 1 to 5) and the Wool Industry Amendment Bill are being debated cognately. The purpose of the Wool Tax Amendment Bills (Nos 1 to 5) is to allow the 5 per cent levy on the sale value of shorn wool to continue in force for another 12 months. The Wool Industry Amendment Bill will enable the floor price scheme, as we know it, to continue through the remainder of this season and to be extended to include the 1976-77 season. The Bills provide an opportunity to say a few words about the wool industry. The National Country Party of Australia wishes to be associated with this legislation. A degree of uncertainty has been created in this industry which is still one of Australia's leading export industries. That confusion has been brought about as a result of the actions of the former Government and of the industrial wing of the Australian Labor Party. There is no doubt that the floor price debacle, which was orchestrated last year by the Labor Party Government, has had a serious effect on the industry. The industry has only recently started to come out of the shaky situation which that Government and its actions precipitated. 
At the moment negotiations are taking place between the industry and the Government on the level of the floor price scheme for the next 12 months. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  has indicated that an announcement will be made shortly after 30 June, so we can expect to know early in July the Government's decision on the floor price arrangement for the following selling season. This is in marked contrast to the approach taken by the former Government in relation to the same matter. The House will recall that the government of the day, in order to take the pressure off itself in relation to the wool industry, let it be known that the floor price would be reduced from 250c a clean kilogram equivalent to 200c a clean kilogram equivalent. Then the Government allowed the industry to go into turmoil while time was given to people like the then honourable member for Eden-Monaro to bring pressure to bear on the Cabinet and on Caucus to have the 250c level reinstated. It was one of those cynical operations for which the former Government is very well known. 
A range of other problems affect the industry. One problem was the strike which has only recently been overcome. We believe that threats still face the industry in this area. The effect on the grower has been quite significant. Only today I was talking to a grower who sold his wool in February but who has not yet received payment for that wool. The brokers were able to give him some advance on his payment but that appears to be an internal arrangement with that firm. Clearance has not yet been given for some of the wool which was sold as long ago as last February. It is extraordinary that because of the climate which operates in rural industries, as a result of union activity growers should be deprived of their lifeblood in many cases for this amount of time. It is to the credit of the Government and the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch ) that they extended the period in which taxes could be paid by people who were unable to pay them as a result of the actions of that union. 
There have been many interesting and significant developments in relation to the Corporation. The $34m standing facility which has been available and which is still available to the Corporation has now been repaid completely, and the banking system has been repaid loans to the value of $70m that were taken out late last year. In the next full year the Corporation expects to repay to the Government an outstanding amount of about $260m that was loaned by the Government to the Corporation to enable it to finance the stockpile. Because there is still a great deal of confusion not only in the House but also in the community at large, I think it is important again to draw to the attention of the House the fact that the wool support scheme, the floor price scheme, operated by the Corporation is financed by the growers. That is an important point that needs to be driven home at every opportunity. The Government makes loans to the Corporation. The industry pays a 5 per cent levy. Under the legislation before the House that levy is being extended for another 12 months. That 5 per cent levy raised from the growers for the Corporation's use, about $43m last financial year. The amount looks like being about $4Sm this financial year and about $50m next financial year. So, over 3 years that levy will provide the Corporation with about $140m. That money pays the interest, the expenses of storage of the wool and the other costs associated with operating the floor price scheme. It is important to keep driving home the significance of that fact. The growers themselves finance the costs of the stockpile and the floor price scheme. The growers are indeed grateful to the Government for making available to the Corporation the loans that are required to finance the stockpile; but all the associated expenses are borne by the growers and any losses that may be incurred are borne by the growers. 
The Corporation expects that next year the 21 micron indicator will operate at levels between 280c and 3 10c per clean kilogram equivalent. At the moment it is a shade below 280c- about 278c. In the negotiations that are taking place at the moment the industry is asking for a floor price of 300c. In all fairness to the Corporation, the Government and the growers, it is probably unreasonable to expect the Government to agree to a floor price level in excess of the reigning market price. I think most growers would be satisfied if the Corporation and the Government agreed that the flexible floor price arrangements which have been operating will continue to operate and that the Corporation will continue to adjust the floor price to a level slightly below the prevailing market price. The stockpile has been reduced from its maximum level of about 1.9 million bales late last year to about 1.3 million bales at present. The Corporation is successfully but carefully reducing that stockpile further. 
I think it is important that we make some mention of the developments that are taking place in regard to objective measurement. The objective measurement system is one of the great steps forward in the sale of the Australian wool clip in recent years. It is my understanding that approximately 40 per cent of this year's clip has been sold under the objective measurement system, and it is expected that that figure will grow to something like 60 per cent in the next financial year. The objective measurement system will be explained at a trade fair in the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics later this year. It is hoped that the industry in the U.S.S.R. will become acquainted, and familiar, with objective measurement. We may be able to encourage greater sales to that part of the world as a result of their greater understanding of the technique. 
It is worth pointing out that Australia is still the largest producer of wool in the world. The 1974-75 figures indicate that of a total world production of 2609 million kilograms greasy, Australia produced 790 million kilograms. It is also worth pointing out that Japan is still Australia's largest market and that of the 3.6 million bales exported from Australia in 1974-75, Japan took 1037 million bales. The Russian market is a significant market for Australia. It took 458 000 bales in that particular year, and if we are able to make them understand better the objective measurement technique and sell sight unseen, then we will be able to increase the market in that part of the world. 
The Government is to be commended for giving at an early date an indication to the industry of its intentions. The Government is to be commended for allowing the Corporation to continue to operate the flexible floor price scheme. The Government is again to be commended because it is letting the industry know as early as possible what the decision will be on the floor price level in the next financial year. As I indicated earlier, that is in marked contrast to the debacle that took place last year under the Labor Government. The Country Party takes a particular interest in the wool industry. The Country Party is pleased to be associated with this legislation and it supports the Government in its efforts on this occasion. 
-Has the Minister for National Resources seen reports that the Federal Government is refusing to honour commitments to construct natural gas pipeline laterals from Young to Wagga and Lithgow? Are these reports accurate? 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Did an RAAF Hercules aircraft transport a Murray Grey bull from Australia to China, departing Melbourne on 24 October 1973. 
What are the full details of all other cargo transported on that aircraft. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Primary Industry. The Minister will be aware of the serious drought that exists in southern New South Wales. He will also be aware that under the joint natural disaster arrangements New South Wales has to spend something like $5m to $6m before the Commonwealth is required to assist with natural disaster payments. Can the Minister inform the House what action is being taken to relieve hardship caused by drought in New South Wales? Is any avenue open to the Federal Government to encourage the New South Wales Government to fulfil its responsibilities under the natural disaster arrangements and to allocate its contribution to drought relief? 
-My colleague the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe)  earlier in the debate raised the matter of livestock as a form of foreign aid provided by Australia, particularly to the Indian subcontinent, and I want to refer to another aspect of the same matter. One issue which has received considerable attention over the past few months is the potential for increasing the canned meat component in Australia's foreign aid programs. Although Australia has previously indicated to the World Food Programme of the Food and Agricultural Organisation in Rome its ability to include canned meat in its pledges, an apathetic attitude has been encountered. Due to the importance, both to the Australian livestock industry and to the meat canning industry, the  president  of the National Meat Canners Association,  Mr Peter  Barnes, recently visited Rome and in company with Australian Embassy officials had discussions with World Food Programme officials. The visit proved most successful, with officers indicating that the usage of canned meat could feasibly be increased from 5000 tonnes per annum to about 15 000 tonnes per annum provided it was included in a program running for three to five years. The acceptability of canned meats as an aid commodity item was recognised. The type of canned meat most suitable for inclusion in World Food Programme requirements- and it could reasonably be assumed that this would be applicable for other avenues of aid- is beef luncheon meat with cereal, with a beef content of 70 per cent. In simple terms, on current cost indications it could be expected that the f.o.b. cost to the Government would be in the vicinity of $lm per 1000 tonnes of product. It has been assessed by the National Meat Canners Association that the Australian meat canning industry currently has excess capacity readily available to allow an increase in production by about 25 000 tonnes per annum of the required product. 
It is worth mentioning that during discussions in Rome the point was accepted by the World Food Programme officials that canned meat represented the only practical form of giving meat as an aid item, and that whilst meat protein costs four times as much as wheat protein, meat protein contains 5.7 times as much lycine, one of the essential amino acids, than wheat protein. Therefore, a combination of the 2 products represents an excellent nutritional package. This point appears to be most significant bearing in mind the current problems concerning wheat production. At a time when there is an over supply of both cattle and canning capacity, and bearing in mind the recently announced increase in total aid, it would appear to be to Australia's advantage to make an increased commitment to supply canned meat under Australia's contributions to all foreign aid programs. A stockpiling of product to cover future commitments could be a worthy consideration. The benefits to the Australian meat and livestock industries in general would far outweigh any negative considerations. 
Australia has normally channelled 8 per cent of its total aid through the World Food Programme. By comparison, Canada places about 40 per cent of its aid through this medium. As the World Food Programme is the most appropriate body for the disposal of canned meats, it would seem appropriate that the Australian Government should under the circumstances be encouraged to extend the proportion of its total aid which could be channelled through the World Food Programme organisation. There is a good deal of debate about the form that Australia's foreign aid should take. I think this suggestion is worthy of consideration by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  and the Government. There is over production. It has been mentioned by some people that the sort of product we have in excess in Australia is not the product which is required by the people of the Indian sub-continent, but it is quite likely that the product which is surplus to Australia's requirements could be processed into canned meat in the form I have been talking about tonight. I commend the suggestion to the Minister and to the Government for their consideration. 
Is the Minister for Primary Industry aware of serious concern being expressed among mainland apple growers about the effect on mainland markets of the recent introduction of the Tasmanian freight equalisation scheme? Although the rates are to be adjusted, will the Tasmanian apple growers be more likely to export to the United Kingdom and 
Europe or will they tend to supply mainland markets? Will the Minister keep a close watch on this situation, particularly in view of the oversupply of apples predicted for next season? 
-The Health Insurance Levy Assessment Bill (No. 2) and the Health Insurance Levy Bill (No. 2) deal with the financing of health care services for this nation. The proposals contained in them are widely accepted by the Australian community and by the majority of honourable members in this House. The necessity to use a levy to finance Medibank was recognised by the originators of this scheme, Deeble and Scotton. The honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  and the former Australian Labor Party Government also recognised the necessity of applying a levy to fund Medibank. In fact, the implementation of a levy is not an area of political confrontation or philosophical conflict at all, despite the amendment that has been moved by the Opposition quite hypocritically tonight. The only possible area in which opinions may differ is in the amount of the levy itself. 
We can no longer accept the tax pool concept of funding Medibank. We do not have a bottomless pit from which to draw finance forever and a day. The open-ended approach to financing encourages abuse and over-use and I will dwell further on this later. To have no limits on financing is, to say the least, not conducive to an efficient economical approach to the budgeting of this nation's accounts. To quote my colleague, the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt),  he recently said: 
Medibank Mark I certainly achieved universal health insurance but it did so at the expense of largely ignoring the need for economy and efficiency in overall health care. The changes we have made will save Medibank from destroying itself by the uncontrolled explosion of costs. 
The free concept of health care, we must all acknowledge, is a sham. It was never free. There are no free lunches. Surely each honourable member here accepts the premise that it is essential to place limits on expenditure. This applies not only to health care but also to all government expenditure. This is no less true of government than for any private individual. The Government is no more blessed with some infinite stream of gold sovereigns than is the ordinary worker- the average citizen. We, the legislators of this country, hold a solemn responsibility to govern wisely and far-sightedly the use of the public purse. We are entrusted with the conscientious control of the nation's coffers for the Australian family, just as any responsible parent conscientiously administers the family budget. The implementation of a levy to fund Medibank reintroduces responsibility into the realm of universal health care. Without such a basic levy as is proposed in the Bills, the administration of the health care program would steadily eat more and more into the available funds. 
As I mentioned in my opening remarks, the open-ended approach of Labor to financing universal health care lends itself to abuse and overuse. All honourable members realise what would happen if, for example, mechanical services were without direct charge and without limits. Garages would be packed night and day with motorists and their vehicles. The most minor of faults would warrant a quick trip to the garage. The so-called service stations would no longer be able to provide a valid service to any client and the system would soon collapse. It has become increasingly obvious that the service stations of public health care have been similarly affected. The system of universal health care, under the bottomless pit funding system of Labor, has been abused and over-used. Let me remind honourable members of the words of the Minister for Health on 1 8 August this year. When speaking in reply to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam),  he said: 
The Medibank Review Committe was established against a background of allegations of abuses and rip-offs, allegations of over-use of medical and health services, and against a background of exploding health care costs in Australia. 
I am sure that each member of the House is aware of abuses of pathology services or of radiology services and of the proliferation of other services brought about by the tax pool concept formerly adopted by the present Opposition. We must establish our priorities in government spending and within the health care system. We must impose controls on outlays, by the adoption of firm, definite and realistic limits on health care funding. In so doing we are encouraging disciplined administration, to restore economy and efficiency in overall health care. We are encouraging discipline in those who administer health care services. 
It is vital that health care costs be an identifiable part of the nation's accounts. We must have no disappearing dollars. Health care must be seen as an identifiable cost unit, related directly to the income tax dollar and limited by inbuilt safeguards protecting both the public purse and the incomes of those it serves. Without this how can the community be expected to respect the system of universal health care or to have confidence in it? Without identifiable costing we invite the sorts of abuses which I outlined a moment ago. We must create economic efficiency in the health care scheme, not at the cost of the quality of the service. The levy system of funding will achieve these ends. 
It is important that it be understood that the Medibank basic 2.5 per cent is not a tax. This levy is a fee, like any other, for a professional service. The Bill establishes that the levy may not be claimed as a deduction in its own right. This is not a further tax, as some would have us believe. It is a professional service fee, charged through the public account. In a full year the levy will raise $403m of a total expected Medibank cost of $ 1,540m. The original levy proposed by the honourable member for Oxley would have had to raise $770m, just to finance half the Medibank cost. It becomes obvious that the implementation of a levy is essential to control cost explosions in the health care scheme. The effect of this Bill does not change the original concept. Universal health insurance remains. All persons will remain covered automatically for full medical care and standard ward treatment in hospital. All Australian residents are entitled to these benefits, unless voluntarily choosing to take out private cover. 
This Bill ensures the continuance of specialised, concessional health care services for pensioners, repatriation beneficiaries and Service personnel. In particular, pensioners dependent on their pensions and those on the lowest incomes will pay no levy. Aged pensioners whose only income is the pension do not pay the levy. Pensioners entitled to pensioner health benefits do not pay the levy. Persons whose taxable income is below $2,604 do not pay the levy. Persons who receive a single parent rebate and whose taxable income is below $3,790 do not pay the levy. Persons who receive a spouse's rebate and whose taxable income is below $4,299 do not pay the levy. 
-I am pleased that at least the honourable member for Holt understands the scheme, which is something that cannot be said for honourable members opposite. It can readily be seen from these details that the special position of people in these groups is protected by the provisions of this Bill. 
An authority is set up by the Bill to regulate exemptions from the payment of the Medibank levy by pensioners. This ensures that that group of people, with their particular difficulties, is in no way disadvantaged by the passage of this levy Bill. Likewise, the position of repatriation beneficiaries is maintained and protected. The basic principle regarding the application of the levy to this group is this: The entitlements of any repatriation beneficiaries who are currently entitled or who are still completely entitled to medical and hospital services under the repatriation scheme are in no way diminished by the provisions of this Bill. Repatriation beneficiaries with full entitlement include the following groups of people: Disability pensioners at or above the 100 per cent general rate; service pensioners qualifying for fringe benefits; ex-prisoners of war; veterans of the Boer War and World War I; and widows, children and other dependants of those whose deaths are service related, or of totally and permanently incapacitated deceased. 
All these people are eligible for full entitlement under repatriation. If such full entitlement beneficiaries have dependants who are also repatriation beneficiaries or are privately insured, they pay no levy- they are totally exempt. At the same time, they still receive the specialised concessional treatment to which they are accustomed. So they should, if such beneficiaries with full repatriation entitlement have dependants who are not privately insured or who are not also repatriation beneficiaries, only half the levy is paid and the concessional treatment still applies. Veterans receiving treatment under repatriation for specific disabilities will still receive this treatment as has always been their due. Like any other citizen, they will have to make decisions on basic Medibank levy or private health cover to make provision for costs of their nonspecific disabilities. 
In addition to maintaining and protecting the position of specialised care of these groups, this Bill makes particular provision for a ceiling on the basic Medibank levy payment. The system of a ceiling, rather than a premium has a distinct advantage to the taxpayer. Previously a premium type payment necessitated commitment at the beginning of the year when income for that year was an indefinite factor. The ceiling payment of $300 or $150 for a person with no dependants provides a definite accountable item for the householder's budget- an item of identifiable cost, related directly to income but limited clearly by legislation to a known maximum. The levy is to be collected in the same form as income tax- a straightforward, direct and practical method, understood by all. In fact, the practical benefits of this financing system are easily evident and certainly need no further elaboration. 
One of the things I find interesting about this Medibank debate is the great change of heart which the Opposition has undergone. The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  announced the Medibank changes on 20 May and the Minister for Health introduced the Bills that same evening. On 26 and 27 May there was extensive debate on the 
Bills. Only one gag was applied. That gag was the cause of the only division in the whole debate. The honourable members for Oxley, Prospect  (Dr Klugman),  Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass),  Corio  (Mr Scholes),  Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  and even Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  all spoke in the debate. Not one amendment was proposed. In fact the only amendments put forward were from the Minister for Health himself. The Opposition let the legislation through with hardly a whimper. Then the power brokers moved in. The industrial wing of the Australian Labor Party decided that the parliamentary wing had let the side down. We experienced the incredible situation in which, due to the total lack of parliamentary opposition, the argument was taken outside. The militants called for a national strike which occurred in a half-hearted fashion and is now part of Australia's industrial political history. 
After the strike and the muscle-flexing exercises of the industrial wing, the parliamentary wing came back for the Budget session determined to reassert its position in the Labor movement. Events tonight and last night are the result of that. The parliamentary Opposition, having been shown up so glaringly by their union comrades, tried to give legs to the Medibank issue. But the issue is dead. Australians accept the need for the change and the responsibility and the commonsense behind the moves. I commend the Bills to the House and reject the amendment. 
-It has been said in social science, specifically economics, that the outstanding candidate for the world's greatest invention is money. The world would never have progressed beyond primitive stages of economic and technological development were it not for the emergence of the universal medium of exchange. Without money the Industrial Revolution could not have occurred. Money facilitated the specialisation of production that transformed numerous simple barter societies into a complex integrated international market economy. It is about money that I want to say a few words tonight. Suggestions have been made that the Soviet Union is tending to move into the control of the world's gold reserves and production. That strategy has been evidenced by a variety of moves by the Soviet Union aimed ultimately at reinstituting an international gold standard, with Russia itself as the major holder and producer of the metal and as the heir apparent to the United States as the monetary strong man of the world. Periodic statements over the years by Soviet spokesmen have said explicitly that their gold reserves and gold deposits were to become one of the main supports of the socialist world system in its historic struggle against world capitalism. The Kremlin has given high priority to the rapid development and expansion of new Soviet gold mine production capacity. In a recent address, the  President  of the Geological Association of Canada and a noted expert on Soviet matters,  Mr Paul  Cavanagh, predicted that Russian output of newly mined gold will continue to rise to surpass South Africa's production in about 10 years. 
The first option which faces the Soviet Union in moving towards a position of monopoly in the production of the world 's new gold would be the fall of Rhodesia, followed by the fall of South Africa, to Soviet controlled communists groups. This would give the Soviet control of 95 per cent of the world's newly mined gold production. However, this wish is not likely to be realised because Rhodesia probably will not fall in the immediate future and South Africa is not likely to succumb to that sort of fate in the immediate term. The second option, and a much more likely one, is for the Soviet Union to try to disrupt the supply of gold production through the support of terrorist or guerrilla activities or to disrupt the exports of gold flowing from South Africa by means of border harassments and possibly through a sea lane blockade. I think that all these things are within the ambit of the Soviet's capacity if it turned its mind to them. By first gaining a near monopoly on new supplies of gold and then by setting an official price in terms of roubles at a very high level, perhaps as high as $400 an ounce, the Russians could then make the rouble convertible for the other national monetary agents in the Soviet bloc and convertible generally to all nation Statecomers in the Western world. Thus the Soviet Union would achieve many of the same benefits which Britain first achieved during the 19th century, when it virtually controlled the world's gold supply and which the United States achieved in the postWorld War I period up to the 1960s; that is, a continuous flow of real resources to those countries as others sought to exchange with them to possess the gold-convertible pounds and dollars and perhaps, in the future, roubles. 
The Soviet Union and its satellite territories are presently indebted to Western financial institutions to the tune of around $35 billion, the major portion of that debt being owed by the Soviet Union. The expectation of much greater gold prices down the road probably encouraged an increased indebtedness to the West and is also probably one of the main reasons why the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics has sold substantially reduced amounts of its gold stockpile to the West during the past year. It has also been suggested that perhaps the Soviet Union is buying up the gold being sold by the International Monetary Fund. To institute a gold rouble standard, with its attendant benefits, is one of the few chances that the Kremlin has of remaining on its present course. The Soviet economic system is unworkable, and that becomes more evident every day. Its dilemma is that it must purchase massive quantities of food and technology from the West but, except for its gold supplies, it has very little to offer in exchange. It does not have the resources to develop its oil fields for surplus exportable oil. It is realistic to suggest that the USSR has two choices for economic survival. It can give its subjects freedom and move towards a capitalist economy which will increase production; or it can give the world a gold standard which will bring about the sort of results I spoke of before. 
I think it is about time that we as a Government and as a Parliament gave some more thought to where these likely trends in the world might lead. If there is any truth in the sort of proposals I have outlined tonight to the House, then I think there is serious cause for concern for this economy and for other Western economies. 
There is. probably an argument that our economy- the Reserve Bank, the Government itself- should be moving to increase Australia's gold reserves by converting foreign currencies into gold. Most commentators take the view that the depressed market for gold, which certainly at the moment is an indisputable fact, is not a situation which will last for a great deal of time. A technical situation exists in the gold market, and it is quite likely that gold could go to new heights once the supply of gold on the market is removed. Australia must be aware of the trends taking place around the world. If Russia succeeds in establishing a gold-backed rouble, if Russia succeeds in either taking over or disrupting the supply of gold from South Africa, if Russia succeeds in becoming the dominant force in the world market for gold towards the end of the century, then it is going to be a whole new situation in terms of the world economy. There can be little doubt that if the rouble is backed by gold then the United States dollar and the present IMF-backed system of statutory deposit reserves will become virtually unworkable. There is no doubt that the nations of the world and the consumers of the world will always opt for the currency which has the most solid backing. If a currency is backed by gold, that is the currency which will be in demand throughout the money markets of the world. 
I raise this matter tonight in the general context of the Budget debate because I think it is something to which we ought to be giving more thought. It is a question which tends to be relegated to the departments and to the Reserve Bank to consider and is not often raised in forums such as the Parliament. I think it is about time that we started to give more thought to it. I think it is about time that we had debates which are more oriented to this type of subject. There is a vast potential for effect upon our economy and upon our whole system if the world economy changes to the extent that it could change if the monetary backing for international trading agreements becomes a gold-backed rouble rather that the British pound, or more recently the American dollar- the backing which has existed since the time of the Industrial Revolution. 
I want to say a few words tonight about the National Library. In the estimates which the Committee is now considering for the Department of Administrative Services are the proposed appropriations for the National Library. Within the National Library funds have been made available for the publication of books and work that the Library considers worthy of publication. About the turn of the century a  Dr Gabriel  came to the town of Gundagai in my electorate. In spite of all the redistributions that have taken place between 1900 and today Gundagai was then and is now within the electorate of Hume. 
-The dog is still there. The dog has survived plebiscites and the suggestions that he be removed to other parts of the district. Honourable members will be pleased to hear that he still sits at the 5-mile location.  Dr Gabriel  came to Gundagai late in the 1800s and set up practice in that town. As well as being a doctor he was a photographer. Apparently at that time many doctors took an interest in photographyunlike the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman),  I imagine. 
-I am sure he has. Doctors at that time took an interest in photography because of the connection between photography and some aspects of the medical profession.  Dr Gabriel  was certainly no exception. During and between the periods he spent at the hospital and in running his practice he found time to take literally hundreds and hundreds of photographs of the people of Gundagai, locations in and around Gundagai and buildings in and around the town. Over twenty or thirty years he built up quite a collection of photographs of the area. In due course he died. 
As the honourable member for Lang says, it does happen to most of us.  Dr Gabriel  died about 1925 or 1927.  His  photographic work went into storage and was not discovered until recently. I was rather hoping that this debate might have been broadcast tonight. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Armitage)Order!  The honourable member's wishful thinking has nothing to do with the debate. 
I am entitled to make the comment because the comments I am making about Gundagai and the National Library would be of interest to the nation and listening audience at large. I am only regretful that this debate happened to come on at a time when proceedings were not being broadcast. A large number of the photographic plates that were taken by  Dr Gabriel  were turned up in recent years in an old building which was taken over by an accountant in Gundagai and others were turned up a few years ago by another person in Gundagai. Both these people recognised the importance of a photographic collection of this type and they decided, I think quite generously, to donate the photographs they had found to the National Library. It is about that matter that I am really speaking tonight. 
The National Library for its part was pleased to receive a collection of such a high quality and which was so representative of life in a country town at the turn of the century. It went to the trouble of running offprints from the negatives. There are a couple of thousand of them in total. It used a collection of them on a calendar a couple of years ago. That calendar attracted a great deal of interest. The Library then decided that it would be a worthwhile project to pursue further usage of the prints that had been taken from  Dr Gabriel's  negatives and to publish a book which might be of wide interest amongst Australians and also overseas. It asked a visiting lecturer from the University of Exeter who was at the Australian National University at the time to make a selection from the photographs in the collection. About 120 of them were included in the book, which has now been published by the National Library under the title  The Gundagai Album.  I had the pleasure of launching the book in Gundagai a couple of weeks ago. 
The book is of great historic value. As I said earlier, it depicts in great detail the way life was lived and the conditions under which people worked and enjoyed themselves about 75 years ago. I think it is a tribute to the National Library that it has the foresight to use works and collections which are made available to it by citizens of Australia or which it acquires by a number of means. The Gundagai collection is of great historic interest because of the detail it contains and the broad ranging nature of the collection. It already has been the subject of study by people who are producing historical films and television documentaries or series concerning the period in which the photographs were taken. It is of interest to them because of the costuming, the decor of the houses, the types of vehicles and things of that nature, which are shown in great detail. 
It is my purpose tonight to draw to the attention of the Committee under this section of the Estimates this activity of the National Library. I commend the Library on having the foresight, the wisdom and the preparedness to enter into this field and to make available to interested people inside and outside Australia a collection as noteworthy as the Gabriel collection. I think it is worth noting that  Dr Gabriel  has been recognised by historians and by people who have a knowledge of and interest in photography as being one of Australia's premier early photographers. The Director of the Museum of Modern Art in New York has expressed great interest in and admiration for the work of this gentleman of days gone by. The Department of Foreign Affairs is giving consideration to the inclusion of some enlargements from the collection in one of the travelling exhibitions that the Department undertakes under its cultural exchange program. The National Library certainly is playing its part in bringing to the notice of Australians things which are of great value, particularly at a time when there is a great revival of interest in things of the past. 
I suggest to honourable members that they avail themselves of the opportunity to look at this book. Not only does it give an indication of how things were 75 years ago in one of the premier districts of our nation; it also is what I would describe as a charming and delightful book. It is not unlike a book launched by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  in the not too distant past, in that it is a book which anybody could take proudly into his home and have no fear of his children thumbing through the pages and being confronted with pornography and things of that nature. I think that all Australians should be grateful to the National Library for having produced this book. 
I rise to speak in the estimates for the Department of the Treasury on the subject of natural disasters and the relief that is available to assist with natural disasters. I wish to make specific reference to the area of drought that is so prevalent in so much of southern Australia. In my electorate of Hume, in virtually all of the electorate of the Riverina, in much of Farrer and Darling in New South Wales, through most of the areas of Victoria and, as the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  would know, in South Australia, there is a continuing and serious situation as a result of the failure of the rain. In my part of New South Wales there has been no significant rain since early this year. There was no rain to speak of in the autumn. A little spring rain has come in the last couple of weeks. Those honourable members who know about the country and understand the cycles that operate in that part of Australia will understand that even a couple of inches of rain in the spring does not solve the problem if people have been undergoing a drought for a period of 6 or 8 months. 
I think it is a point of some satisfaction that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  and the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  in particular are all men who have had experience on the land and who do understand the problems that are faced by people in these circumstances when drought is causing them so much of a problem. I think the Federal Government is doing what it can to react to the circumstance which exists. I for one am very grateful for the fact that the Government has been so prepared to commit itself to the support of people who are affected by these conditions. 
For the benefit of those who do not understand from first-hand knowledge and experience what drought means, I think it is worth expanding on this a little. A period of drought is a very depressing situation and one which people ought to understand better. This drought is exacerbated by the fact that prices are also low and that markets are not easy. It is further exacerbated by the fact that whereas in previous years those who were affected by the drought might be able to take a job in the local town, now find they are unable to do so because of the employment prospects that exist, particularly in country areas. But it is a very soul-destroying exercise to own or to operate a farm or a property and to go on week after week after week right through the autumn, right through the winter and into the spring in the knowledge that there has been no rain and having no idea of when that rain will come. All during this time one has to make decisions as to whether crops will or will not be planted, whether stock will be fed, or whether they will be sold or allowed to die. I think most of us have seen some of the television coverage that has been given to the very sad business of having to destroy stock for humanitarian reasons. 

 Mr DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)Order! I do not want to inhibit the honourable member but I would remind him that the appropriation before the House relates to the Department of the Treasury. I should like him to relate his remarks to that Department. 
-With respect,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  I think the Treasurer is responsible for payments under natural disaster arrangements and I am speaking about that. The effect of drought is something which is not easily or quickly recovered from. It may be well into 1977 before there is recovery from the damage which has been done to pasture and stock, even if we are fortunate enough to get good solid, lasting and soaking rains immediately. However, if we are to believe the meteorologists that is not on the cards. That is the serious position which faces so many people in southern New South Wales at this time. 
My colleague the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan)  organised a meeting in Deniliquin on Monday of this week. The Minister for Primary Industry attended that meeting. A couple of hundred people from southern New South Wales and northern Victoria came to Deniliquin to put their views to the Minister for Primary Industry, to relate their problems to him at first hand and to see what the Government was prepared to do about the position. I think it is of great credit to the honourable member for Riverina that he was able to organise such a meeting, and I am pleased that the Minister for Primary Industry was able to attend it. I believe that the Commonwealth is doing its bit in the area of drought relief. The Commonwealth is faced with a complicated position in this area because of the traditional arrangements which operate with State governments in the field of natural disasters. 
Most honourable members would know that the arrangement with the New South Wales Government is that that Government has to spend $5m from its own resources and that after that sum has been expended the Commonwealth Government picks up the tab for any further expenditure that may be incurred under the natural disasters scheme in a 12-months period. The difficulty that we are experiencing in New South Wales is that that State Government is not prepared to make a commitment. It is not prepared to acknowledge the fact that this drought which has continued virtually for all of this year is serious. It is not prepared to acknowledge the fact that every day producers are going out of business. It is not prepared to acknowledge the fact that a great deal more needs to be done to assist these people who are so tragically affected by the drought. 
The Commonwealth has made several offers to New South Wales and to the other States. It has offered to pay compensation of $10 a head for livestock that are killed. Also it has offered to pay $1 a head to local government authorities for disposing of the carcasses. I think that, marginally to its credit, the New South Wales Government appears to have accepted that offer. The Commonwealth Government also has offered to provide low interest loans to enable drought affected producers to carry on. The New South Wales Government has not taken up this offer. If there is one thing that must be understood in regard to this question of drought and of natural disaster payments it is that the New 
South Wales Government must be prepared to accept its responsibilities, to acknowledge the fact that a problem exists in this part of Australia and to make a commitment up to an amount of $Sm which it is required to do under the arrangements. If the New South Wales Government does not want to do that, it can accept the offer which was made by the Prime Minister only a week or two ago under which the Commonwealth Government would provide assistance under the national disasters scheme on the basis of $1 for every $1 spent by the State governments, with the Commonwealth contributing as soon as the first $1 of assistance is provided. Of course, that is a matter which has to be determined by the States in line with their own priorities. 
The producers in New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia who are so stricken by drought cannot continue in their present position where they are being totally ignored by the State governments and are being subject to politicking backwards and forwards between Sydney and Canberra in an endeavour to satisfy the whims of the individual State governments. Something must be done about this matter. I believe the Commonwealth is accepting the challenge. It is up to the States to do the same. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I speak on this so-called matter of public importance with a feeling of bemusement. I cannot help but regard with some cynicism a topic such as this which has been raised by the Opposition. Let us not forget that this is the Opposition which, when in government, allowed prices and incomes to spiral out of control. Its inconsistent policies in government created the grave economic problems which this Government is moving to solve. Yet it accuses us of inconsistency. The Minister for Labour at the time, the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  was busily using the Public Service as a pace setter and effectively forcing upwards wage levels in the community. He was generating inflation, bashing the private sector and the consumer. Then the previous Government set up the Prices Justification Tribunal in an effort to see that increased wages were not passed on to consumers. The Government wanted to squeeze company profits. What happened was the legitimisation of price increases. The previous Government was virtually giving its blessing to price rises that industry probably would not have sought if it had to suffer the slings and arrows of the consuming public. 
The PJT gave industry something to hide behind, but this was not the intention of the previous Government. The intention of the Australian Labor Party originally was to squeeze industry and to divert wealth from the private sector to the public sector. What monumental inconsistency! One Minister was forcing wage costs up, and another was providing, in effect, industry with a justification for passing on those increased costs. Then the previous Government sought to control inflation it was creating by a referendum to control prices and incomes. On one hand it was pushing up prices and incomes; on the other it was seeking the means to control what it was doing. Of course it was not interested in achieving those controls from a control point of view. The referendum attempt was a cynical centralist exercise designed to appropriate powers which properly lie with the States. More inconsistency! Medibank did more to encourage an uncontrolled health care cost nightmare than any policy deliberately designed to accomplish such a result could have achieved. Where is the consistency in a Budget projecting a $2.6 billion deficit which was running headlong at $5 billion when the change of government took place? 
Labor had, and continues to have, a great weakness in the field of economic management. It had 3 Treasurers in 3 years. Despite the fact that those 3 men still sit in the Parliament, the Opposition has appointed yet another man as shadow Treasurer. It has had 4 economic front men in four years. The fourth is no better than the others. This is perhaps reflected by the fact that the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  led today on an economic matter. Perhaps he will be the fifth. The previous Government created confusion and inconsistency in this economy. On many occasions it was forced to turn tail, to adopt a different posture. It tried not only other policy options but other Treasurers- numbers of them- but not, I point out, to any avail. The present Government inherited from the former Administration a fully fledged and flourishing system of economic chaos. We inherited from the Labor Administration an economic melee which the former Government and its leaders created and to which they contributed nothing but further confusion by their internal Party backstabbing and contradictions, to say nothing of the publicly aired inconsistent statements, many of which could be described by the statistical term 'mutually exclusive'. Those statements could be understood only if they were read in those terms. 
So I repeat that I find it difficult to treat this topic with anything but cynical bemusement, considering its source. However the honourable member for Port Adelaide obviously considers that the Parliament of this country is a fitting place for an exercise in time wasting, similar to the exercise last Thursday week. 
That is right. The matter has been raised as a matter of public importance. Consequently we, as a government, must explain in careful words, easily understood by our colleagues on the Opposition benches, the situation of the economy when it was handed into our care and the attitudes which this Government has adopted towards curing these ills since that time. The consistency of these attitudes is obvious even to the most unseeing eye. Above all, this government set out to re-establish the strong, stable economy which had always been a feature of the Australian scene and to cut back on the madly spiralling inflationary condition of the Australian economy. In that aim the Government has been unfailingly consistent. It has endeavoured in various ways to control wages and costs and continues to do so. 
The need to curtail health expenditure was one of the very major tasks facing this Government when it came to office and that thrust has not changed. The whole area of health care costs was out of hand as a result of the Labor Government's administration. Health care costs needed to be an identifiable cost to the taxpayer, not some nebulous open-ended scheme gloriously described as Medibank in terms that indicated a wondrous new scheme for curing all ills and which in fact proved to be one of the greatest scourges on the Australian economy for which the Labor Government was responsible. This Government has recognised the need to regulate this element of costs for the taxpayer personally and for the economy. It has revised the tax pool concept of funding public health care, adopted with such drastic results by the former administration, and replaced it with a system where health care costs are both identifiable and limited. The basic Medibank levy places an absolute ceiling on the cost of health care and relates it directly to the income of the taxpayer. In this way the Government is consistently applying its stated policy of curtailing inflation and of placing limits on the costs in our economy. This is sound business practice in any language. It seems a shame that the Opposition, when in Government, was so unable to adopt even this basic business principle- the regulation of expenditure. 
Specialised treatment has been given to particular groups of consumers with the implementation of the levy system of funding health care. This Government has thus continued its policy of protecting the interests of those people least able to help themselves and those who suffer most from the escalation of costs we inherited. Pensioners and repatriation beneficiaries are both given concessional treatment under this Government's Bills aimed at a rational, regulated system of public health care costing and benefits. 
The gross escalation of wage costs in recent years is a factor which this Government has pledged to overcome, and to do so despite the strongest attacks by the Australian trade union movement- attacks which must surely be acknowledged as damaging to the progress of this nation's economic growth. Wage indexation, at the time it was introduced, was beneficial in stopping the inflationary price spiral. However, it has now reached a stage where it has become an inbuilt part of this spiral. Therefore it is necessary at some stage to break into this inbuilt flow-on and this Government has been endeavouring to achieve this by arguing for part indexation and plateau payments. While this may result, in the short term, in a reduction in real wages for the consumer, it is essential in the long term regulation of the inflationary economic situation. It is too puerile to suggest that workers are entitled to continue for ever receiving full adjustments if these increases become part of an inflationary situation which continues to worsen. 
To have economic recovery and a return of full employment we must have a policy of wage restraint. This Government is again consistent in its attitude on the matter of wages regulation and its relation to incomes and prices policy generally. Wages, as a cost element, cannot go unrestrained. In the 2 years to the December quarter of 1974 real male award wage rates rose so fast that what amounted to5 years of normal growth in real award wage rates was crammed into 2 years. As the Commonwealth submitted to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in the June quarter wage indexation hearing, once the unwinding of excessive real wage gains has occurred there is no reason why real wages would not, once again, begin to increase in line with productivity increases, as has always been the case for long periods in a more or less fully employed economy. The Government feels that the short term reduction in real wages will be far outweighed by the benefits of a more rapid return to full employment and sustainable economic growth. 
The honourable member for Port Adelaide came into this place today and issued threats, talking about what the union movement would be doing in this area and talking down the economy. If there is one thing which a responsible Opposition should not be taking on board it is the sort of behaviour indulged in this afternoon by the honourable member for Port Adelaide. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. The discussion is now concluded. 
-I ask the Minister for Post and Telecommunications a question supplementary to that asked by the honourable member for Riverina. I point out that no one challenges the independence and integrity of the Australian Broadcasting Commission, nor do I imply or seek any political interference with the ABC. I ask the Minister, in line with his ministerial responsibility in this place for the ABC, to give the House details of guidelines which exist in the ABC for the use of 4-letter words. Is the House entitled to know whether such guidelines exist and, if so, will the Minister give the House that information? 
-Has the Minister for Transport noticed the action of the New South Wales Government in lowering the price of fares on public transport in Sydney while raising freight rates in country areas of New South Wales, increasing revenue by $6m as a result of the exercise? Is any assistance available through Commonwealth funds to adjust the burden placed on country people by the New South Wales Government? I refer particularly to wheat growers who have no alternative method of transport, unlike wool producers and beer consumers who apparently are exempt from the freight increase. 
It is interesting to come into the Parliament and see that again the Opposition has brought forward a matter of public importance about economic management. It seems that only yesterday we had a discussion on a similar subject of public importance. What interests me is the fact that the Opposition gives this Government credit for economic management. It may not agree with the way in which this Government is going about it, but at least it says that economic management exists. That, I think, is something for which we cannot give credit to the previous Administration. Honourable members opposite spent 3 years wallowing around in some form of economic activity which could not be blessed with the title 'management'. They come back to this chamber again and again attempting, as the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  says, to talk the economy down, attempting, for some political advantage no doubt, to cause disruption in our community and attempting to create confusion in the economy as a whole. I believe, as the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  said that there is a degree of confusion among the members of his own Party. 
-No, I retract that remark. The honourable member did not say that; I said it. The honourable member for Adelaide said that the Budget is the most important instrument that a government has available to it. It is not so many years ago that one of his predecessors as spokesman for his Party on economic matters, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  who was the Treasurer at the time, said that the time had come when budgets were not to be regarded as the most significant instrument available to a government. He said that economic management should take place on a continuing basis and that we should get away from the emphasis that is traditionally attached to a Budget. Today we are getting back to the more traditional line and the honourable member for Adelaide is rejecting the prognostications of his predecessor in that respect. We have further confusion between the honourable member for Adelaide and his Leader. We are told by the honourable member for Adelaide that what this Government is doing in its economic strategy is attempting to delay economic recovery until the next election. 
-That is absolutely right. He said that we are managing the economy in terms of electoral strategy. That seems to me an interesting process because we .have been told on the other hand by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  that we are about to call an early election. One thing is not consistent with the other. 
Well, if we are trying to delay the election until 1978, 1 do not see how we can be trying to call an early election. 
-The honourable member said we were trying to delay until the next election. 
That is right. The honourable member gives us a remarkable degree of credit because, if we accept his arguments, we have the ability to move the economy in any direction to suit our own electoral purposes. That, I think, is something which is a great compliment to this Government. 
The honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  told us that cuts in Government expenditure are important; that they are affecting people; and that they are reducing the number of jobs in the community. The honourable member for Adelaide told us that the Government sector of the economy is not really important because it accounts for only 25 per cent of economic activity. So, I think there needs to be some degree of unanimity among the members of the Opposition. 
The important feature of this matter is that we have exemplified economic management The Government has demonstrated to Australia and to the community at large that it has been pre- pared to take charge of the shambles that was eft behind by the Labor administration of the previous 3 years and to accept the challenge to come forward with a firm policy to restore confidence and activity in the community. That is what is important. 
What the Government has done throughout the year is to make adjustments to that overall strategy. The strategy announced by the Treasurer on Sunday night is no more than that. The Government unlike the Opposition, is tuning the economy. While in government, the Labor Party manipulated, overturned, juggled and tried to keep all the balls above its head but was not able to achieve that. The Treasurer and the Cabinet must be given credit for having stuck to the same economic line all the way through. They are not being rattled. They are not being put off their course by people such as the honourable member for Adelaide or by commentators. 
-As the honourable member for Maranoa says, why should they? The Party represented by the honourable member for Adelaide has a record of economic management and achievement that can only be regarded as disastrous. I do not know why anybody would want to take notice of the Labor Party. I do not know why honourable members opposite have the arrogance to suggest that anybody should take notice of it. The fact of the matter is that the Government has been consistent in its approach to the economy. It has been consistent in the strategy which it is applying to the economy. That is what is important. 
I think that the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart)  confused everybody with the figures that he quoted during the debate. The honourable member talked about deficit levels and tried to confuse what was said by the honourable member for Berowra  (Dr Edwards).  The important point is what happens at the end of the financial year. The deficit in June, August, September or February is not really significant. What is significant is the overall result for the year. That is the way economic performance is measured in the Budget context. The changes that have been made to company taxes and things of that nature are the indicators. There have obviously been changes in the way in which Government receipts have been coming in. To try to compare the figures for the first 3 months of this year with last year's figures is not on. The honourable member for Lang has said that we should not blame the Labor Government. But I put it to him that what we are suffering now is not the result of mild changes to a system that had been in operation for years. What we are suffering at the moment is the result of drastic changes that were made to a system in a period of 3 years. 
One cannot solve problems and overcome drastic changes which have been made in a short time. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has said- he has been backed up by members of his Ministry- that the job facing us is a full 3 year job. That is a proposition which has not been disputed. The fact that inflation is showing encouraging signs of coming down within the first year of the Fraser Administration is, I think, a credit to the policies which have been pursued by that Administration. The honourable member for Lang tried to suggest that the Labor Government was unable to achieve its tasks because the Liberal-Country Party Coalition had been in office for 23 years previously. But the fact is that we have always pursued a stable economic policy. In the 3 years of the Labor Government there was nothing stable about any of its policies, let alone economic policies. It takes a long time to recover from those influences. 
The Premier of New South Wales,  Mr Wran,  has been mentioned in the debate as an independent observer. I think that was probably one of the lighter moments of the debate. Perhaps honourable members should be grateful to the honourable member for Lang for making this statement. I believe that even the honourable member for Berowra would acknowledge that the Premier of New South Wales is not one of the great economic minds of our time. For members of the Opposition to introduce the comments of the Premier of New South Wales into this debate is probably not doing justice to this Parliament. This Government has a consistent approach and a consistent policy line towards the economy. The Opposition is intent on trying to justify its actions over the last couple of years. It is trying, for its own political ends, to promote a situation in the economy in which confusion reigns. It is trying to ensure that there is a continuation of confusion and uncertainty in the minds of businessmen and consumers in Australia. That is not something with which the Government agrees. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. This discussion is now concluded. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry, relates to the beef industry which has experienced a series of significant reductions in export market opportunities in recent months. I refer to the announcement this morning of a severe reduction in Australia's quota for the entry of beef to Japan. What action is the Government taking following this announcement? Is there any pressure that the Australian Government can bring to bear on the Japanese Government to ensure reasonable access for Australian beef producers to the Japanese market? 
I do not wish to take too much of the time of the House. I would like to be associated with this legislation principally to draw to the attention of the House some matters which will have to be considered by the Government, if not by the House, at a future time. The Bill and the whole program of water conservation are obviously beneficial but the program is not one without problems. The Blowering Dam and the Burrinjuck Dam are located in my electorate. Obviously they are backed up by the whole Snowy system which is not in my electorate but which has a significant effect upon it. In the last 3 years we have had major flooding on the Mumimbidgee as a result of heavy rain, not necessarily in the area, but in the Snowy catchment area, and because of the inability of Blowering and Burrinjuck to control the flow of water there have been significant floods and a lot of damage. Flooding has affected in particular the town of Gundagai; in the electorate of my colleague, the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fife),  the town of Wagga; in the electorate of the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan),  towns such as Narrandera; and, dependent on the severity of the flood, towns down as far as Balranald. The floods also have affected those people who are trying to farm areas along the Mumimbidgee all the way from Burrinjuck to the River Murray. 
There is a problem in terms of management. The Burrinjuck Dam is controlled by the Water Conservation and Irrigation Commission as it was known until recently. I think it is now called the Water Resources Commission and is a statutory authority of the New South Wales Government. Burrinjuck is an irrigation dam. It is not a flood mitigation dam. Blowering is in a peculiar situation because on it are power generation plants which are the responsibility of the Snowy Mountains Council. Once the water has passed through those plants it becomes part of the body of water in Blowering itself and then comes under the responsibility of the Water Resources Commission. Although there is probably a good degree of co-operation between the Snowy Mountains Council, which is a federal instrumentality, and the authorities that look after the States' water resources, there is still an apparent inability to be able to regulate the degree of flooding which occurs in the Mumimbidgee system. It is indisputable that no matter how good the management, major flooding cannot be avoided. 
In some of the recent flooding experiences the rainfall has been such that there would have been no way, if all the dams had been empty, that we would have been able to stop them filling and indeed flooding the Mumimbidgee system. The authorities are trying to meet the needs of electricity generation and the needs of the water users and irrigators further downstream. These are among the prime purposes of the Snowy system. At the same time, as far as flooding is concerned, the authorities are doing there best to act in a way which is not irresponsible. The primary problem that exists in my electorate is that there is just no way that we seem to be able to manage the system of dams so as to reduce the flooding that might occur. The flooding affects a lot of people and a lot of different industries in the Mumimbidgee Valley. 
I make particular reference to the Mountain Maid operation which is probably known to all members of this House as a vegetable and fruit processing co-operative. Mountain Maid owns an asparagus farm which is a magnificent piece of country on the banks of the Mumimbidgee. In the last 3 years water has covered the property to varying degrees and has caused significant damage. Mountain Maid also draws very heavily from other growers along the Mumimbidgee Valley who grow under contract. When their crops are wiped out, as they have been with monotonous regularity in the last 3 years, obviously the Mountain Maid operations are affected as well as the well-being, economically and socially, of the growers themselves. 
There is another serious problem although it probably does not affect as many people. I refer to the raising of the water table particularly below the wall of Blowering Dam. The wall of Blowering is on the Tumut River. Some magnificent properties there have been highly viable in recent times. Since the construction of the Blowering Dam their whole economies have been severely affected. For large portions of the year when water is released to those further down in the irrigation areas and the water table below the wall is raised, the users cannot get their tractors into the areas, crops become waterlogged and significant problems result. Obviously the value of the land has been cut quite drastically. People in that area are having great difficulty in being able to get compensation, particularly in this case from the State Government which in its legislation has protection from claims by landowners as a result of action taken by it. 
I do not want to get into further detail at this moment. I want the House and those who might be listening to this debate to be aware of the fact that problems are associated with what is obviously a significant program in the national interest. I think that there may be a need, as I said at the outset, to bring back to the House at a later time the sort of problems which are being experienced in the Mumimbidgee Valley in particular. I am very grateful to the managers of business in the House and to members of the House for the opportunity to make this small contribution to this debate this afternoon. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
-The BUI before the House is important because it deals with political appointments to positions of permanent cad in departments by the government of the day. Under the permanency provisions of the Australian Public Service, which is of course a career Service, there has not been a distinction between appointments from within the career structure and those from outside. This lack of distinction has allowed governments to appoint permanent heads who would not have been regarded as established candidates for these positions. Ensuing governments have had little choice but to move such appointees sideways at the salary level appropriate to a permanent head and put them on the unattached list if the appointee was not acceptable to the incoming government. 
The practice of appointment to the position of permanent head of non-established candidates became particularly conspicuous under the previous Labor administration. It appeared that the best qualifications and experience for an aspiring permanent head was to have served a time as private secretary to the now Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam).  This Bill seeks to rectify this situation under which such appointments are made on a permanent basis. The Government acknowledges that there may be occasions when it is appropriate to appoint a permanent head who is not an established candidate for the position. This legislation does not seek to restrict a government's following that course. What it does seek to do is to remove the permanency of such appointment. 
This Bill provides for the appointment of permanent heads, other than established candidates, for a 5-year term. The term may be extended as appropriate or it may be terminated on a change of government after payment of compensation. The Bill provides for a procedure which must be followed in the case of the appointment of a non-established candidate. Amongst other things, the Governor-General must be informed by the Prime Minister whether the proposed appointee to a vacancy is an established candidate. There Will be no doubt about who are and who are not political appointments. Flexibility will be available to a government to appoint outsiders to the position of permanent head if it feels that the appointee has special qualifications or talents that he can bring to the position. No government will be denied the opportunity to call on special expertise if it considers this to be appropriate. No government will be fettered in its desire to go outside the traditional Public Service career structure if it believes that the talent or expertise is not available from within that established structure. All future governments will know that appointments of this nature will not necessarily continue beyond that government's period in office. This I believe to be a significant step. It is regrettable that the actions of the previous Government made legislation of this nature necessary. It is nonetheless appropriate that the ground rules for these appointments be added to the statutes so that from this time on governments will act in the full knowledge of the nature and the extent of their actions. 
The honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry)  indicated that under this legislation it would not be attractive for outsiders to come into the Public Service at permanent head level. He indicated that permanent heads would be entrenched in the system. I do not think that is really the point. I think it is more appropriate to say that the question is really one of acceptability. If any government wishes to bring in somebody from outside, such a person can be appointed as permanent head. It is acknowledged that he is not an established candidate for the position. It is up to the incoming government, if there should be a change of government, to determine whether that person has the talent or the expertise or is of value in that position to the new government. I do not think the legislation makes the position any less attractive to people on the outside, nor do I think that it makes the existing Public Service senior strata any more entrenched than it would have been if this legislation had not been introduced. The fact is that people who are offered positions as permanent head under any government from now on will have to consider and assess their situation in the light of this legislation. They will have to consider whether they are likely to be acceptable to another government. They will have to consider whether they can be regarded as a blatant political appointment. In these circumstances it is a question of the responsibility of the person who is being offered a position as to whether he wants to accept what is a political appointment and what will be interpreted as a political appointment for the life of that government. I do not see anything wrong with that. I think that if the previous Prime Minister had wanted to appoint more of his private secretaries as permanent heads of different departments he should have been entitled to do so. I think it is unreasonable to expect an incoming government, which might find any or all of those appointments distasteful to it, to be saddled with the responsibility of having to use public funds to keep these people on the unattached list, to keep them in a position of permanency, which is the existing situation. 
I think this legislation shows quite a degree of feeling and understanding by this Government. It has not acted to undo the appointments of the previous Administration. It has taken account of the fact that if a permanent head 's appointment should be terminated before his time has expired, a change of government having intervened, appropriate compensation should be paid to him for the cutting short of his term of office. I believe that this Government is setting the record straight for this Administration and for future administrations. If a future administration wishes to amend this legislation it will do so in full view of the public eye. It will do so in the full knowledge that people in the electorate are aware that it is opening the way again for political appointments. I do not believe that any government would blatantly want to open the way for political appointments. The people concerned, the aspirants to positions under any administration, must realise that they are operating under a quasi-American situation in which their appointment lasts for as long as their government lasts. 
I think it is also appropriate that the legislation recognises that there are occasions when special expertise is required. It may be that an occasion would arise when a person who is appointed to a position of the nature referred to in the Bill may not have his term extended, even by the government which appointed him, because if the life of the government extends beyond the 5-year period of his appointment and his appointment is up for renewal, it may not be renewed. It is quite conceivable that governments may seek to bring in people at a permanent head level to establish a department, to bring in some new expertise that may not be available within the Service or to perform some task for the government at permanent head level. Having accomplished that task over a 5-year period, it may not be appropriate to re-appoint him. Governments which made these appointments may not wish to continue them. 
I believe that by this legislation the Government has made a great step forward. We have created a situation in which political appointments to the position of permanent head of a department are recognised as such. We have created a situation in which the people who are offered and who accept these positions must accept them as political appointments. If these people are interested in a career structure, they must consider whether the position which they are being offered is of a sheer political nature or whether their special talent and expertise are being recognised and they are being called upon by a government to perform a duty in the administration of government in this country. I believe that there would be many occasions which we could recall on which people could be brought in from outside the established structure to perform specific services or to bring in special talents who would be acceptable to incoming governments. I believe that this is a great step forward and something which ought to be recognised. The National Country Party is enthusiastic about this legislation. On its behalf, I add my full support to the actions which the Government is taking. I wish the legislation a speedy passage through all its stages. 

 -Mr Speaker, under the Standing Orders I draw your attention to the state of dress of the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage).  I ask you to rule that a state of dress which would not be acceptable in the Speaker's Gallery on the floor of this House, that is, failure to wear a tie, is not acceptable on the floor of the chamber. 
-The matter of public importance brought forward by the Opposition today is, strictly speaking, a non-event. It was raised by the Australian Labor Party, but that Party has never had more than 5 members in the chamber during the course of the debate. At the moment two are present. It gives some indication of just how seriously Opposition members take what they call a matter of public importance. It is very difficult to expect the Government to take it any more seriously. The Opposition thinks that it is expected to draw attention to what obviously the headlines in the media tomorrow will refer to as a 6 per cent rise in the consumer price index. I think it is worth recalling at this stage a remark that was made in the  Australian Financial Review  this morning by  Mr P.  P. McGuinness, who is not noted for being sympathetic to the Government's policy. In his opening paragraph he said: 
The expected increase of 6 per cent in the Consumer Price Index for December, 1976 quarter, to be announced today ought not to be directly compared with the increases of 2.2 per cent and 2.5 per cent in the September and June quarters. 
This is a fact which has not been sufficiently recognised in the discussion so far of the expected rise in the CPI. 
I think this is the error which has been made by the Opposition in this debate today. It has fallen into the trap of trying to compare incomparable statistics. Most of the debate has centred around trying to establish a common ground on both sides of the House about just what statistics ought to be looked at and what ought not. What is noticeable about the debate is the half-hearted nature with which the Opposition has approached the subject. The lead  speaker  for the Opposition, the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  could hardly make his IS minutes. He did not come into the chamber for question time this morning. He was outside, no doubt working on what was to be a devastating attack on the Government. He came into the chamber and made a paltry effort which, as I said earlier, hardly lasted his full time. The last 5 minutes of his address were not even on the subject. 
That is an indication of just how seriously the Opposition takes the subject which it has chosen to bring before the House this afternoon. It appears to us in Government to be an exercise in posturing, with the honourable member for Adelaide, the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young),  and the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  jockeying for the position of  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition when it comes up for election in the next few months. All that those honourable members are trying to do is to settle positions within their own Party. No economic argument has been presented here today. Honourable members opposite have not taken seriously the matter which they raised as a matter of public importance. 
They raised 2 basic arguments. The first related to the effects on the consumer price index of the Government's decisions in relation to Medibank. Honourable members opposite also raised the question of devaluation. The paucity of the Opposition's arguments has been amply demonstrated in the House this afternoon by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  and by the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland).  There can be no doubt about that. When looking at the effects of Medibank on the consumer price index, one must look at the situation in 1975 and 1976. If the consumer price index is adjusted to take account of the effects of Medibank, one can see that the rate of increase in 1975 was 16 per cent and in 1976 it is 10.8 per cent. That is the only valid comparison that can be made based on the figures that have been presented to the House. I am not impressed by the ditherings of the Opposition in trying to find some method of presenting the figures to the Parliament in such a way as to support its case. There is no case to support. The fact is that the rate of inflation has fallen significantly, from 16.7 per cent to 10.8 per cent, in the 2 calendar years at which we are looking. That is evidence of the effect of the Government's management of the economy. The devaluation argument cannot be sustained. At this point in time with the figures that are available, it is not realistic to try to project the effect of devaluation on the consumer price index. The argument that the decisions made by this Governmentthe Opposition pointed to only 2 decisions, those relating to Medibank and devaluationhave had the effect of increasing the cost of living, as shown by the consumer price index, just does not stand up. The Opposition cannot project, nor can the Government project, what the effects of devaluation will be. We will have to wait to see what the effects will be. The proposition put by honourable members opposite about Medibank is not correct, because once the consumer price index is adjusted to take into account the effects of Medibank, on both the Government's figures and the Opposition's figures there is a significant reduction in the rate of inflation. 
The question of devaluation has to be looked at in the future. The predictions that are being made by the Opposition about devaluation need to be better than the sorts of predictions the Opposition has been making in the last few months about the rate of unemployment that we were to see in January. The Opposition was talking about a figure of 500 000.  Mr Hawke  was talking about a figure of 500 000. The Opposition had been throwing the figures around for months but when the figures came out the number was nothing like that prediction. Now  Mr Hawke  and other Labor Party supporters are talking about 700 000 unemployed. 
-I thank the honourable member. The predictions which have been made are wild in the extreme. A former Treasurer, a person from whom one expects some responsibility in economic matters, spoke this afternoon about the inflation rate rising to about 1 7 per cent or 1 8 per cent by June this year. The Opposition needs to be destructive; that is its only weapon. The tragedy is that this Opposition cannot even be destructive successfully. The arguments that were put this afternoon do not hold water, in anybody's language. They have not demonstrated anything satisfactorily. I venture to suggest that the best thing honourable members opposite can do about this subject is to put their tails between their legs and forget about it. 
The honourable member for Adelaide cannot get anything right. In the last couple of weeks we have seen a running argument in the  Australian  between the honourable member and others as to the interpretation of  Dr Gregory's  theories. It is pretty obvious to anybody who has been following that debate that the honourable member for Adelaide has not been able to grasp that subject. From my observations of the honourable member for Adelaide over the last 12 months since he has been leading for the Opposition on economic matters I believe that he has not been able to grasp much as all. The situation is that the Government has grasped the nettle in economic policy. It has recognised and drawn attention to the problems that existed when the Government changed in November 1975. It has not been afraid to come forward with the policies that this nation needs to bring it back on to the road to economic recovery. 
For their part, honourable members opposite have not said or done anything constructive in the last 12 months. In the Christmas break, when they finally decided that something should be said so that people would recognise that the Labor Opposition had something to say on the economy, they produced their disastrous statement which was nothing more than a rehash of the mixture before, perpetrated on the Australian economy by 3 successive Labor Treasurers and now being advocated by Labor's fourth economic spokesman in as many years. The Government rejects entirely the matter of public importance that has been raised today. We on this side take the view that it is irresponsible of the Opposition to raise it. In raising matters of public importance the Opposition has a responsibility to put up some sort of argument and to create some sort of debate. But today nothing of substance at all came from the lips of the Opposition's spokesmen. As I described it at the beginning of my address, it was a non-event. It was a half hearted approach by the Opposition. It was something which Opposition members believed they ought to do, otherwise they would probably have their knuckles rapped. It was a half hearted attack. The Opposition offered nothing, and the Government has put the Opposition completely and securely in its place. 
It pleases me to be able to follow the honourable member for Darling  (Mr FitzPatrick)  in this debate. He is a man for whom I personally have a great deal of respect. I listened to the comments he made and I am sure that between him and me and many other honourable members there are no arguments as to the responsibility of large sections of the trade union movement. But what has interested me in the debate as it has proceeded yesterday and this evening is that the Australian Labor Party Opposition seems to be obsessed by the application of this Bill to the trade union movement. There are many other important and significant provisions of this legislation which ought to be considered and which ought to be included in the debate in this chamber. I do not know whether members of the Opposition just do not concern themselves with these other matters or whether they are completely hidebound by the fact that there happen to be some provisions in the Bill which affect the trade union movement. I would like to direct some of my remarks tonight to some other aspects of the Bill. 
Honourable members are aware that the second reading debate is proceeding at this stage and that a vote will not be taken on it at this time. The Government is prepared to allow this legislation to he until after the prorogation of the Parliament. During that time it will consider the incorporation of changes or amendments based on the many submissions which have been made. The Government will also take account of the complexity of the legislation and other things which may have an effect on it. I think that the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  and the Government should be complimented not only by honourable members on my side of the House but also by honourable members on the Opposition side and by people outside the Parliament for taking such a responsible attitude to what is obviously an important piece of legislation. 
It ought to be pointed out that the proposal to examine trade union practices, which admittedly form part of this legislation, was foreshadowed in April 1976, which is nearly 12 months ago. The terms of reference of the Trade Practices Review Committee, or the Swanson Committee as it is known, included that proposal, and the unions have had the same opportunity as everybody else in the community to consider what changes may be made and to make submissions to that Committee and to the Government. As I understand it, more than 200 submissions were received on this matter. That in itself is significant. Also, in terms of the efforts which the Government has made to air the proposals that are before the Parliament, it is worthy of recognition that the recommendations of the Swanson Committee were published in August 1976. That was several months ago. 
We all are aware that on 25 February this year an opportunity will be given to the union movement to discuss the legislation and there will be a meeting between the Government and the Australian Council of Trade Unions on the matter. Obviously the unions still have a chance to put submissions on this question before the Government. The BUI itself was introduced into the House on 8 December last year. At that stage the Minister again invited submissions in relation to the legislation. I think that is a fairly reasonable proposition. I do not think that anybody could ask for greater consideration from any Government or from any Minister. As I indicated earlier, it is close to a year since the proposals were first put. The recommendations of the Committee ave been available since last August. The legislation has been before the Parliament and therefore before the people of Australia- anybody who may be interested- since last December, and a further opportunity is being given to the union movement to discuss these matters on 25 February. 
The contents of the BUI are very significant and wide ranging. I do not think that in this debate the Opposition has given sufficient cognisance to aU of these matters. The BUI continues to deal with anti-competitive agreements, monopolisation, exclusive dealing, resale price maintenance and anti-competitive mergers although some adjustments are made. 
The prohibition of price discrimination is repealed. The Government is of the view- I agree with this -that price discrimination arrangements worked to inhibit price flexibility and did not encourage competition. I think that what we have to be most concerned about in our society and in our economy is to ensure that there is an encouragement of competition. It is only in an atmosphere of healthy competition that we will be able to achieve any sort of restraint on unnecessary price increases. Alterations have been made to the provisions relating to anticompetitive agreements and the test of the restraint of trade has been omitted. There is now only one test on competitive effects and I think that this is something that ought to have been discussed a lot more by Opposition members in this debate. There has been a prohibition of collusive price agreements and collective boycotts. I think it is also significant to note that the Government has not adopted the recommendations that price agreements for services be prohibited outright. 
There is a matter in this area which affects me as one who represents a rural electorate and so many of my colleagues in the National Country Party. That is the recent proposal by the stock and station agents associations, particularly in New South Wales, to increase their fees. Many people in rural industries took the view that the increase in fees was something which ought to have been prohibited by the Trades Practices Commission under the legislation that we are discussing at the moment, but this is something that the Government in its wisdom has decided not to proceed with. Although restraints are imposed upon these organisations they are free to increase their fees. 
The legislation recognises the special place of joint ventures. It clarifies the law of monopolisation in such a way that only deliberate conduct by a market dominating organisation comes within the prohibition provisions and capital investment never of itself becomes a test of monopolisation. The legislation adopts the recommendations concerning the use of land as a means of effecting restrictive trade practices. It removes unnecessarily harsh controls on small businesses, and there are many of us in this Parliament who are concerned with that sector of our economy. 
As the honourable member for Darling Downs says, it is a very important sector. I could not agree with him more. Everyone of us has a lot to do in our electorates with small business and we realise the extent to which it is the backbone of the society and the economy in which we operate. The fact that the Government has lifted the threshold test to $3m annual turnover is significant. I think this Will have a beneficial effect on those operating in the area of small business. 
Under the Act the Minister has a discretionary power to compel the grant of authorisation of a merger by the Commission. That power is to be removed under this legislation and that is in accordance with the undertaking we gave in the pre-election situation. Obviously a wide range of things are dealt by the legislation now before the House. Members of the Opposition have tried to narrow down this debate to a question of the effects of the legislation on the trade union movement and that alone. They have tried to portray the Government and its supporters as being interested in little more than union bashing. This is significant legislation and it ought to be recognised as such. It deals with many things other than the particular sections which relate to the trade union movement. There are important provisions about the Commission's procedures in terms of restrictive trade practices. The legislation seeks to remove the clearest procedure which perpetrated unnecessary interference by government and we are all concerned about bureaucratic interference, particularly unnecessary bureaucratic interference in matters which ought to rest with private enterprise. A simple test of balance between benefits and detriments to the public is adopted in this legislation. This replaces the previously overly harsh authorisation test. Discussions with the Trade Practices Commission before the determination of authorisation applications or exclusive dealing notifications are provided for and I believe that they are important provisions. 
There are also provisions which relate to employees. Exemptions which have long been afforded to this group are now limited to remuneration, conditions of employment and hours and working conditions, and secondary boycotts which substantially damage the business of Australia are prohibited. I think there has been adequate debate on those matters in this Parliament and they are things which are generally accepted by the community. Another important area in this legislation relates to consumer protection. I have noted an appalling lack of attention to consumer protection by the Opposition in this debate. The definition of a consumer is altered to afford small businesses a new degree of protection. I indicated earlier, particularly in response to my colleague the honourable member for Darling Downs, that small business is certainly an extremely important component of our economy. Protection is extended in matters of the promotion and sale of land, especially major interstate promoted subdivisions. A quick method of banning the sale of unsafe goods is now provided for and I think that again is something which is significant. It ought to have received more attention, and I would imagine favourable attention, from the members of the Opposition. 
More satisfactory sanctions and remedies for consumer protection are provided in the legislation. Imprisonment is abolished. Courts may order corrective advertising, the repair of goods or affirmative disclosure. I think these things will do a lot to improve these matters which are of concern to so many honourable members. The Government is studying things like a multiplicity of State/Commonwealth laws implying excludable terms into consumer transactions to try to simplify them. The Government is looking at the possibility of direct liability of manufacturers for breach of implied terms in consumer contracts. I think all these things will serve to strengthen the position that consumers have in our economy. 
There are also other aspects of this legislation which the Opposition has chosen to ignore. They are again significant in that they relate to the Government itself. The legislation accepts the general principle that the Government's commercial enterprises should be subject to the same laws except in those peculiar cases which relate to the national interest. Appropriate provisions to be incorporated in the legislation are being investigated by the Government, and other matters which are pending consideration but which are not in this Bill relate to the rights of franchisees, the liabilities of financiers for breach of consumer conditions and warranties and the application of this legislation to professional activities. I believe that the Government has given a good deal of consideration to this legislation. It has done more than could normally be asked for in terms of consultation with the community, with the people who are affected by the legislation, and in terms of the way in which the debate in this House has taken place. 
I would like to direct attention to what are the aims of the legislation. These are the things that ought to be considered more in this debate. This legislation is concerned with the promotion of the rule of law. We should have the same law that governs industry and business governing trade union and government activities. That should be a paramount principle in the sort of philosophy that stands behind legislation of this nature and that is what we are seeking to do. These amendments will rectify and redress the sort of privileged positions that were given to some sectors of our community by the Bill which was introduced and passed when this House was controlled by the Labor Party. The laws should apply to the workings of private enterprise as in other spheres of civilised existence. Another aim of the legislation as I see it is to protect the public interest to prevent monopoly power from being exercised by either capital or labour or government for that matter except in those circumstances where the national interest is concerned. 
The legislation is concerned not only to protect the consumer by legislation but also to protect the consumer by the efforts which are made under this legislation to counter inflation and by promoting competition. I believe we must be doing positive things towards countering inflation. The Bill itself will have a significant effect in this area. The Bill does not propose to introduce any restriction on legitimate trade union activities. Trade unions will be able to do all the sorts of things that they were able to do before but there will be particular things which have developed in the trade union movement which the Government and the community in general considers to be to the detriment of the normal operations of the community and economy which will not be permitted under this legislation. As I see it, as the people in my electorate who have spoken to me about this legislation see it and as my colleagues in the National Country Party and the Liberal Party in government see it, there should be no cause for concern by the trade union movement. 
As I indicated earlier, my colleague the honourable member for Darling  (Mr FitzPatrick)  represents a union which has had a significantly good record in terms of industrial relations. The Barrier Council must be commended in this area. If other unions took the approach that was taken by those in Broken Hill in so many instances, I think the industrial relations scene in Australia would be far the better for that education. Unions which behave responsibly do not have any cause for concern under this legislation but those which seek to act in such a way as to impose a restraint of trade must be expected to come within the provisions of the legislation in the same way as the employers do, as private enterprise in general does and should continue to do and as the Government itself will do under this legislation. The public, as I understand from the reading of polls which have been published, has expressed its views about many of the things which this legislation accommodates. The public has expressed the view that the unions have tended to go far beyond the bounds of what the people are prepared to accept as being the normal and proper functions of the trade union movement. 
There are many other areas in which the trade union movement has transgressed what we in Australia, under the historical development of the trade union movement, are prepared to accept as being within the proper role of the trade union movement. As I said a little earlier, I do not believe there is any need for any union which behaves in a responsible fashion to have any fear of this legislation but the activities of those who seek to enforce their will on their own membership and therefore on industries and the economy in this country will be noted as a result of this legislation. They will have to think twice about whether they are going to proceed with that sort of activity in future. I believe that the legislation is good legislation. It redresses the weaknesses that were inherent in the Bill which was originally introduced by the Labor Party when it was in government. It removes a situation of double standards which in my view applies to the trade union movement today. The trade union movement wants to impose all sorts of provisions on other people and is not prepared to have those same provisions imposed upon itself. There has been a greater need for clarity in this area of law in Australia and I believe that the Government has acted most responsibly in seeing that that clarity is in fact introduced. I cannot accept the criticism of the Opposition that this is a Bill which is designed to do little more than union bash. As I have indicated, I am convinced about this myself. There are many other important aspects included in this Bill to which the Government has given serious consideration and which have been before the people for a period of very close to 12 months. I think that the Government has taken an extremely responsible attitude to it and I support the legislation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I give notice that on general business Thursday No. 8, 1 shall move: 
That in the opinion of this House a national approach must be adopted to the management and control ofthe River Murray system. 
Joint Committee on Pecuniary Interests of Members of Parliament 
I direct a question to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. He will be aware of the record surplus achieved by the Australian Telecommunications Commission in the last 6 months. I ask the Minister whether he is in a position to have discussions with Telecom with a view to seeing whether that organisation is prepared to take a more lenient attitude towards charging for the provision of services, particularly in rural areas. He will be aware of the significant concern expressed by so many people who live in - 
If the man we have just listened to, the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  is to be the next Leader of the Australian Labor Party then I think Australia is in safe hands because there is no way that the Labor Party can succeed under leadership from a man of that calibre. If the front bench spokesman from the Opposition who led in this debate, the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young),  is to be the new  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in this place then I think that the position of the Fraser Government in Australia is safe for generations to come. 
I rise in this debate principally to ask: Why this matter of public importance? No more than two or three weeks ago we had a debate in this House on electoral Bills. It has become apparent that the posturing and positioning that needs to take place in the Labor Party to have the necessary effect of raising support among Caucus members is such that there have to be debates of this nature to allow the candidates the opportunity to expose themselves before their colleagues. The fact of the matter is that if that is the point of the exercise it fails dismally because there are no more than three or four members of the Labor Caucus in the chamber. This is par for the course particularly in debates of this nature which they initiate and for which they cannot obtain support from their side.  (Quorum formed.) 
I take this opportunity of thanking the honourable member for Port Adelaide for bringing some members of his own Party into this House, which is something that he was not able to do when he himself was speaking. The matter before the House has been approached by the Opposition in what I regard as a peculiar way. Very little emphasis has been placed on matters which are the responsibility of this Parliament and a great deal of emphasis has been placed on matters which are not within the responsibility of this Parliament. This is a devious way of bringing up the subject. If questions were asked on it at question time the Chair would have to rule that the Minister was not able to answer the questions because they were not within the bounds of his responsibility as Minister. Yet through the device of a matter of public importance the Labor Party is able in this House to refer to situations that pertain in the different States. 
Why should we in this Parliament talk about matters that relate to the States- electoral matters or any other matters? The situation that exists in the States has been perpetrated as much by Labor governments as by non-Labor governments. There have been several examples over the last 60 or 70 years of State Labor governments keeping themselves in power for inordinate periods as a result of the device of gerrymander. I refer to Queensland, South Australia and New South Wales. The list goes on. The matters for which this House is responsible are the ones to which we ought to be turning our attention in this debate. What the Opposition is trying to suggest is that the Liberal-National Country Parties are gerrymandering the Australian electorate. I point out that under the redistribution which was implemented by the Liberal and Country Parties in 1968 the Labor Party went to the polls in 1972 and won the election with 49 per cent of the vote. Yet honourable members opposite say that a gerrymander has been perpetrated by the Liberal and Country Parties. That just is not so. 
What is important in this situation is that, given the opportunity to bring about a redistribution for this Parliament,  Mr Daly,  the former honourable member for Grayndler, proposed a redistribution which would have allowed the Labor Party to hold office with a vote as low as 45 per cent of the popular vote in Australia. With 45 per cent of the vote Labor would have retained office. Honourable members opposite have the hide to come in here and accuse the Liberal and Country Parties of gerrymandering. At the time  Mr Daly  said: 'Our redistribution will give the National Country Party heart attacks. ' If that is not a clear indication of an attempt by a Minister to gerrymander, to influence distribution commissioners, to bring about a situation where anything but electoral justice pertains, I do not know what is. The only change that has been made by this Government to the electoral Bills is that a provision has been included to the effect that electorates over 5000 square kilometres in size shall not have any more electors than electorates under 5000 square kilometres in size. That is quite proper. Again referring to the Daly redistribution in 1975, we had the situation where my colleague the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Fisher),  as I recall it, had the largest enrolment in the State of Victoria and one of the largest electorates geographically in the State of Victoria. 
My own electorate of Hume had about the fifth or sixth largest enrolment in the State of New South Wales. It is also one of the largest in geographical terms. The gerrymander that was perpetrated by the Labor Party in office was quite straightforward. They said: 'We will create rotten boroughs in the metropolitan areas of Sydney, Melbourne and the other capital cities. We will create vast expanses of territory and throw as many people as we can into them because it does not matter what happens; we cannot win them anyway. ' The only way that Labor can win government under its concept of redistribution is by having a situation where all the non-Labor voters are crammed into those vast areas in the bush. Members are expected to be able to represent those people. We cannot talk about democracy in this country unless we give some consideration to what representation means. That is what is important. 
We do not take seriously the claims that the Opposition puts forward about our representing sheep, goats, fish and porpoises. The Opposition does not understand our difficulties. The honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  has an electorate of 22 square kilometres. The honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan)  has an electorate of 101 000 square kilometres. When the honourable member for Grayndler sits down at his desk in the city he is 35 weeks ahead in terms of the amount of time he has available for his electorate, because the honourable member for Riverina spends the equivalent of 35 working weeks of the year behind the wheel of his car doing nothing but driving. If notice is not taken of the disadvantages suffered by country people in regard to access to their members of Parliament and if notice is not taken of the way in which members of Parliament have to go around to represent them, there is no justice, and justice and democracy cannot be brought into this House. The Government rejects the Opposition's matter of public importance in its entirety. It throws it out because it is a hollow, shallow shell. There is nothing more behind it than posturing to depose the existing Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  and to allow some opportunity for candidates for that position to speak. 
-The paucity of Labor's depth of talent has been amply demonstrated here today, particularly so when the Opposition has to swing in the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  into a debate of this nature. The honourable member for Prospect is a man generally respected in this place for his knowledge of horse racing and medicine in that order, but not for any expertise in economic matters. It is interesting that the Labor Party has to resort to a man of the talents of the honourable member for Prospect in a debate which it instigated, I imagine, in a serious vein. The  Sydney Morning Herald  of Monday, 2 1 March in its editorial said: 
It is only to be expected that statistics as all-embracing as the 'national accounts'- which take account of every aspect of economic activity to give an estimate of overall economic growth- offer a field day to politicians looking for 'evidence' to support their pre-conceived attitudes. 
I can only say that the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  and the honourable member for Prospect have turned that field day into a circus. The editorial continued: 
The national accounts figures issued on Friday were even more amenable to misuse than normal. 
The Opposition has shown us today the extent to which that statement was correct. It has been said that the national accounts offer little grounds for complacency. I affirm that the Government is not complacent. The national accounts are encouraging. They show that the economy has responded to the economic policies of the present Government. The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  has announced his intention to continue to pursue the broad thrust of present policy. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  confirmed this today in question time. 
There is a continuing tide of encouraging reports, statistical releases and independent comment which supports the view that the economy is emerging from the deep recession attributable to Labor's period in office. The national accounts are yet another encouraging sign. The national accounts are a more reliable indicator of what is happening in the Australian economy and supersede other less reliable statistics which are released earlier than the national accounts. Gross non-farm product in real terms increased by 5.2 per cent in the year to the December quarter compared with a decline of 0.6 per cent in 1975. As a matter of interest, at the height of the Labor Administration the year 1974 had shown an increase of 0. 1 per cent. There can be no comparison between this Government's policies and those of its immediate predecessor, either in government or in Opposition where they are now and where they are likely to stay. Private enterprise investment in plant and equipment showed a growth in real terms of 18.4 per cent. Company profits were 33 per cent higher than those a year earlier and have returned to something like the historic levels at which they should be. Wages rose by 1 1.6 per cent.  Mr Tony  Thomas in Saturday's  Age  said: 
This swing from wages to profits is normal in an economic recovery because of improved use of industrial capacity. 
This is understood by the Government and it points up the Government's view that an improvement in employment will  Follow  the early stages of economic recovery.  Mr Thomas  also points out that the growth in private consumption of 4 per cent at an annual rate in the December half-year appears in line with the Budget forecasts. I interpolate by saying that the Labor Government was never able to make anything at least correspond with, let alone equate with, its Budget forecasts.  Mr Thomas  also said: 
A marked slowing in the underlying inflation trend was also corroborated by the statistics. 
The Government's policies are proving correct, despite the waitings from the Opposition benches and sections of the media. Progress is being made and that is indisputable. The Opposition must be wary of putting up matters of public importance only to have them dealt with more than effectively by this side of the House. The accounts show that growth is fairly widespread in the non-farm sector of the economy. Productivity is around 4 per cent and there is a distinct downward movement in the implicit price deflators. The major gross national economic components show a fall from 4.5 per cent in December 1975 to 1.4 per cent in December 1976. Gross non-farm product showed a fall from 4.2 per cent to 1.7 per cent in the same period. The gross domestic product figure, which was 4.5 per cent in December 1975, was 1 per cent in December 1976. If that is not an indication of the underlying strength of this economy and of the reduction in the underlying inflation rate, I do not know what is. These major points justify the statements of the Prime Minister and the Treasurer that the economy is returning to normal and condemn the attempts by the Opposition to continue to talk down the economy. The accounts show that the economy has responded to the Government's economic policy. The Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Limited publication  Business Indicators  for March 1977 stated: 
It is even more essential that those who make public opinion- business and labor leaders - 
There is no ' u ' in the ' labor '- and the media which interpret them- should cease aggravating the gloom, and acknowledge the economic progress which is being made (even though some may consider that the chosen official policies are imperfect) and refrain from asking governments to deliver what is beyond their powers to deliver. 
Enterprise, profits, productivity and standards of living are the responsibility of business and management, investors and workers- and governments should not be urged to guarantee them or force feed business to ensure quick recovery. 
It does not matter where we turn- support is coming for the policies which are being put forward and which are being implemented by this Government. The Government has been consistent in its approach. It has taken a consistent line from late last year until early this year, and will continue to do so. The Australian Industries Development Association, in its bulletin of March 1977, in an article 'On the state of the Economy', stated: 
We are now entering a new scene in this whole saga. It is being confirmed from all quarters that the decline in real production and sales which has gone on over the last 3 years appears to have been halted. Now there are suggestions in the air that the economic recovery might actually be getting underway. 
That is another example of the sort of independent comment which is coming out in support of the policies that this Government has been adopting. There can be no doubt that progress is being made. Progress will continue to be made. There are far more important things which the Opposition in this place could be doing than drawing attention to the phoney arguments which it is proposing in trying to talk down this economy and in trying to take up the time of the national Parliament. The attempts to take up the time of the national Parliament by this Opposition are futile. The electorate recognises them for the sham which they are. This Opposition, more than any other single factor, is responsible for the disastrous state in which this Government found the economy. Since this Government came to office it has taken strong, determined and firm steps to bring the economy back into line. The release of the national accounts last Friday shows another example of the way in which these groups of policies are being successful. The paucity of the alternatives proposed by the honourable member for Adelaide has been displayed by the Government and in the media. There can be no doubt that only one Party is capable of managing the Australian economy and that is the Party which is in office at the moment. This Government rejects in its entirety the matter of public importance brought before the House today. 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Health. Will the Government give consideration to withdrawing the bulk billing facility which is currently available for those services relating to the termination of pregnancy? 
It is with a great degree of regret that I participate in this debate. It is a contribution to the House that I wished I would never have to make. The inquiry which resulted in the report of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts, which we are debating, was a long and a very drawn out inquiry. It was an extremely difficult inquiry. It was one which caused a great deal of concern and problems to all those people who were involved in the Committee. I point out that this inquiry began on 7 March 1974, which is a little over 3 years ago. That inquiry was commenced by the Ninth Committee. Since then there was a double dissolution, in May 1974. The Committee was reconstituted as the Tenth Committee, following that election. Following the election in December 1975 the Committee was reconstituted as the Eleventh Committee. Only one member of the present Eleventh Committee was a member of the first Committee which looked at this matter, the Ninth Committee, and that is the honourable member for Banks,  Mr Martin.  I am sorry that he has not been given an opportunity to make a contribution in this debate. 
The  Chairman  of the Committee, the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly),  and I were appointed to the Committee shortly after the inquiry started, in May 1974. Apart from  Mr Martin,  the  Chairman  and I are the only 2 members who have served through the bulk of this inquiry. All sorts of problems faced those people who were appointed to the Committee in the beginning of 1976, because they had to pick up threads of a very long, a very complicated and a very involved inquiry. They had to be party to a report which was based on evidence which, for the most part, they had not heard but had only had an opportunity to read. I think it is a tribute to the Public Accounts Committee that in the face of all the difficulties that existed it was able to present a unanimous report. I think it is very significant that the Australian Labor Party members were able to accommodate the views that they held with the views that members of the Liberal Party of Australia and the National Country Party held and that they were able to present to this Parliament today a unanimous report. 
A lot of very sensitive issues which are raised in the report gave the Committee cause for a great deal of concern. It is a matter of record now that the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  has taken a certain attitude to a lot of the statements in the report. I assure him and his colleagues that every attempt has been made by the Committee to treat this inquiry as fairly as possible. The Committee has bent over backwards to see that there could be no possibility of any fingers being pointed by anybody at anybody. The Committee was placed in an extremely difficult position in that in a lot of instances it had conflicting evidence from the then Minister, on the one hand, and from the Permanent Head of his Department at the time, on the other hand. In many instances the Committee was not able to draw firm conclusions as to where responsibility lay or where fault lay. It became a matter of judgment in a lot of areas. In most of those areas the Committee was not prepared to make judgments. For those people who are sufficiently interested to read the report- I hope people will read it- the Committee stated the alternative positions put by the Minister and by his Permanent Head, and did not draw conclusions. 
I draw attention to one point made by the honourable member for Wills in his address to this House. It related to the position of the AuditorGeneral. He does not have an opportunity to defend himself in this House. I would not like anybody, either here or outside, to be left with the impression that the honourable member for Wills was treated in any unfair fashion or in any improper fashion by the Auditor-General. I quote firstly from paragraph 27 of the report of the Committee because it puts this matter into some sort of perspective. The report stated: 
As the statements made by the former Minister raised some very important matters of principle relating to the autonomy of the Auditor-General, his method of reporting and his relationship with departments, the Committee held a private meeting with the Auditor-General to discuss the matters raised by the former Minister. The main points made by the Auditor-General during the discussions were as follows: 
I think it is important that this is part of the record of this Parliament: 
He considered that the combined effect of section 64 of the Constitution and section 25 of the Public Service Act was that a Department of State consisted of a Minister and a Permanent Head. 
He was not obliged by law or convention to inform persons that they would be the subject of critical comment in the Auditor-General's report. 
It would be administratively impracticable for the Auditor-General to seek out and discuss the matter with persons who are to be the subject of critical comment in his reports. 
He had serious doubts about the propriety of informing persons that they would be featured in his reports. He considered that he would then be open to the criticism that the person, even if the person was a Minister of State, had foreknowledge of what was to be in a report to the Parliament before that report was tabled. 
It is the normal policy of the Auditor-General 's Office to disclose in reports the whole, or part, or a summary of the departmental responses to critical Audit observations. 
The Auditor-General has no acceptable alternative to addressing official communications concerning the audit of a department to the Permanent Head. 
He maintained that he is entitled to rely on the facts as presented by the Permanent Head unless he has good reason to doubt them in which case he would take up the matter with the Permanent Head. In the cases in question he had no reason to doubt the facts as presented by the Permanent Head. 
He considers that he is entitled to assume that a Permanent Head will comply with section 25 (2) of the Public Service Act, which states  inter alia- 
The Permanent Head of a department  . . shall advise the Minister in all matters relating to the Department.' 
In other words, he considered that the obligation in this case was on the Permanent Head to inform his Minister. It would then be a matter for the Minister to decide if the former Minister should be informed. He stated that he was not aware whether the Permanent Head did, in fact, inform his Minister. 
I think it is important that that position be clarified. The Auditor-General must be in a position in which, regardless of the content of his reports, he is free to be able to make them. I think it is regrettable that the honourable member for Wills has taken the attitude that he was not fairly treated by that officer of this Government. 
Another thing to which I draw attention is the fact that the honourable member for Wills took the view that this was the first opportunity which he had been given to express his views on this matter. It is important that the Parliament be aware that he made a submission to the Committee. It was an all-embracing submission. It covered in total some 300 pages. He appeared before the Committee and made a statement to the Committee. At that time he was free to make any comment and any statement that he wished. All the evidence from the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, all the submissions from the Department and all the evidence that had been taken were available to the honourable member for Wills at that time. The Committee made a judgment that there was no need to question the then Minister. He had every opportunity to say to the Committee, in a public inquiry, all that he wanted to say or all that he felt that he needed to say. There needs to be a clarification of that situation. 
I do not want to get involved in a point by point debate on this matter. It is a very delicate question. It is a matter which will be considered by a lot of people, both inside and outside of government, for a long time to come, because of the implications which are raised in this report as to the relationship which should exist between a Minister and his Permanent Head in particular. I repeat that this has been a very difficult inquiry for the Committee. I compliment members of the Committee for having handled the inquiry as they did and for bringing down a unanimous report in this Parliament. 
The Committee stands by the report. I hope the honourable member for Wills will understand the extent of the difficulties that confronted the Committee and that he will accept the Committee's report in the spirit in which it has been presented to the Parliament. I hope he will realise that there has not been, nor should there have been, nor could there have been, and specifically nor was there, any attempt to do anything other than justice in respect of this report. I now move: 'That this debate be adjourned until a later hour this day'. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I am in a difficult position. I understand that there is a program before the House which needs to be completed before the Address-in-Reply is taken to the Governor-General at approximately 5 p.m. An arrangement was entered into that this debate would continue until 3. 1 5 p.m. In view of the extension of time which was granted to the honourable member for Wills I understand that the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  asked that the debate be adjourned following my speech and that an opportunity would be given to other honourable members to speak in the debate after the Address-in-Reply debate was finalised. 
Before my speaking time expires I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later hour this day. 
-Between Gunning and Gundagai, a distance of 1 50 kilometres, the Hume Highway runs through the electorate of Hume. For this reason the Hume Highway is of particular interest to me. Since the 1974 National Roads Act, which was introduced by the Whitlam Administration, the Hume has been classified as a national highway. Under the provisions of this Act all expenditure on the Hume is funded by the Federal Government. Prior to 1974 this Highway and other highways which are now national highways were classified as rural arterial roads and were jointly funded by Federal and State governments. Money was certainly spent on national highways prior to 1 974 but since that date the Federal Government has expended $123m for national highway construction and maintenance in the State of New South Wales. Of this amount, $103m has been allocated to the Hume Highway. In addition, an amount of $66. 6m has been allocated for national highway expenditure in New South Wales for 1977-78, of which about $46m will be spent on the Hume. This brings the total allocation for work on the Hume in the 4 years to $150m. It is also important to note that the Bureau of Roads has recommended the allocation of $90m on Hume Highway construction in New South Wales in the 3-year period 1979-81 at 1973-74 prices or $2 15m at 1979-81 prices. By 1981 the investment in the Hume Highway will have exceeded $365m. 
The Federal Government has announced its intention to complete a 4-lane dual carriage Hume Highway between Sydney and Melbourne by 1984. It is obvious that the nation has a massive investment in this highway. It is proper that this should be the case as the Hume is the main Sydney to Melbourne road link and arguably the most important road in Australia. By comparison, the Moomba-Sydney natural gas pipeline cost $232m from start to finish and spans a distance of 1300 kilometres. The Hume Highway is 870 kilometres in length. Investment in the Hume will ultimately be many times larger than the investment in the natural gas pipeline which is generally regarded as being a major national project in terms of scope and investment. Although it is in the national interest that the Sydney to Melbourne road link be of a high standard I believe that much greater thought needs to be directed towards the use to which the Highway will be put and what the alternatives might be. 
Between Yass and Gundagai- a representative section of the Hume- the annual average daily traffic in both directions was 3200 in 1974. The Bureau of Roads forecasts that this usage will rise to 7700 vehicles daily by the year 2000. The volume of traffic on the Hume will more than double by the turn of the century. In 1974, 57 per cent of vehicles on the Hume Highway were cars or utilities. The balance, 43 per cent, was heavy vehicles- transports, coaches and the like. Almost half the traffic is identifiable as commercial and no doubt much of the small vehicle traffic would also be in this category. In 1974 a vehicle travelled on the Hume every 27 seconds 24 hours a day. By the year 2000 a vehicle will travel on that Highway every 1 1 seconds 24 hours a day. If the heavy vehicle percentage remains the same as in 1974, a heavy vehicle will travel on the road every quarter of a minute in the year 2000. 
The Yass-Gundagai section of the Hume is by no means the most heavily used stretch of that Highway. The section between Goulburn and the Federal Highway carries almost twice the volume of traffic at 5450 vehicles a day. The Bureau of Roads has reported that the Hume is not up to national highway standards to some degree for its full length. The Highway is structurally unsound, subject to flooding, the sight distances and curvatures are deficient and the pavements are too narrow. Carrying the traffic it does and being in the condition it is have arguably caused many of the accidents which have occurred on the highway. The Bureau of Roads states: 
The rates for accidents and fatalities are considerably higher than the national average and the worsening trend on the Hume Highway has been against the national trend to improved safety. There is some evidence from the survey that the sections in the poorest condition have the worst safety records, particularly with regard to the number of accidents and their severity. 
In each of the 3 years 1973, 1974 and 1975 approximately 1000 casualty accidents have occurred on the New South Wales section of the Hume. The number of fatalities in each of those 3 years has been in the seventies and the number of injuries has averaged over 1400. Trucks and semi-trailers have been involved in at least 200 of the 1000 casualty accidents in each of the 3 years referred to. The Bureau of Transport Economics has estimated that a 4-lane highway would save 200 to 250 lives between Goulburn and Albury alone over the next 30 years. The extent of the investment in this Highway and its commercial necessity must obviously give the Hume Highway a high priority in terms of the national interest. The fact that so many human lives are lost on this Highway and that this loss of life can be significantly reduced further enhances the argument for an upgraded Hume. I have referred to the expected increase in the volume of traffic by the turn of the century. It is interesting to consider the sort of highway that will be carrying that traffic. 
The Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  said last September that the design standards are aimed at ensuring that national highways are constructed to cater for the safe carriage of traffic at least to the turn of the century. Design standards under the National Roads Act confirm that the design of road works construction or reconstruction is for 20 years after completion. In the case of bridges the design is for 30 years. The National Roads and Motorists Association found that only 12 per cent of the Hume has dual carriageway and that 44 per cent of the undivided sections had a lane width narrower than the national highway standard of 3.7 metres. The standards require 4 lanes of 3.7 metres with shoulders of 3 metres, and 1.2 metres on each of the dual carriageways and a 15 metre median strip. The minimum overall width of the total strip is 38.2 metres if normal standards are complied with. 
The NRMA stated that the Victorian section of the Hume was generally better than the New South Wales section in most respects. However, there is a much shorter distance of highway in Victoria than in New South Wales, and this finding is not surprising. A 60 kilometre per hour speed limit applies over 12 per cent of the Hume Highway. It passes through 17 separate zones which are classified as urban. There are 7 level crossings on the New South Wales section. Overtaking is illegal on almost 20 per cent of the length of the Hume, and there are 77 advisory speed signs indicating poor alignment or construction. Significantly, a high proportion of these advisory speed signs are 35 kilometres per hour or more below the prevailing speed limit in the area. The Hume has a long way to go if it is to measure up to national highway standards. The NRMA estimates that at the current rate of progress it would take 30 years to reach the objective. In this estimate the NRMA is greatly at variance with the official stance that a 4-lane divided highway will be completed by the mid 1980s. 
Having considered the Hume as it is and the targets both in standards and time to be achieved, the question revolves around the economics of maintenance, the use to which it will or should be put, the role of government in influencing the use, and the alternatives. If in fact we have a traffic flow in the year 2000 at the rate of one vehicle every 1 1 seconds it will occur at a time when the designed time span of the highway is ending. The turn of the century will see the expiration of the 20-year period for which the road was designed and a volume of traffic more than double its present level. It will be a time when we can assume a further major investment and reconstruction will become necessary in addition to the required maintenance, which will arguably increase over the 20-year period. 
The decade around the turn of the century would appear to be critical to the maintenance of the Hume as a national highway into the 21st century. It would seem appropriate to look at ways of extending the life of the Hume beyond the 20-year period and reduce the pressure which those who follow us will face. I believe the only logical way to achieve this objective is to reduce the rate of growth in the volume of traffic particularly the heavy commercial traffic. I would argue that nothing does more damage to the road than heavy trucks travelling at high speed. If this factor can be reduced the life of the road must increase. 
Government already exercises some control over use of the Hume Highway. Economic factors also influence the use made of the Highway. There is a relationship between air fares, bus fares, train fares and private vehicle use. There is a relationship between air freight rates, rail freight rates and road transport rates. If the life and economics of the Hume are to be improved there must be variations in both the government and the economic factors. 
In some cases I believe it is simply a matter of enforcement of existing legislation or regulations. If a truck is overweight at a checking station it is my understanding that, depending on his past record, the driver may be booked, but, unfortunately, the load is not diminished. Checking stations have become collectors of revenue rather than enforcers of the law. I believe the New South Wales Government should enforce the weight limits. If a truck is overloaded it should not be allowed to proceed until it conforms to the regulations. Similar comments apply to length. The commonly used 40-foot pantechnicon unit can only conform to overall length limits if it is hitched to a small prime move. Most are not and are therefore operating illegally. This regulation should be enforced. 
In Victoria a speed limit of 65 kilometres per hour applies to vehicles weighing 3 tonnes gross. In New South Wales a speed limit of 80 kilometres per hour applies to vehicles weighing over 3 tonnes unladen. It is common knowledge to anyone using the Highway that a large proportion of the heavy vehicles do not observe the 80 kilometres per hour speed limit. It is simply not enforced. It should be. I cannot speak for Victoria in this instance. Drivers of vehicles with an unladen weight of over 2 tonnes must have one half hour's rest and refreshment after 5 hours of consecutive driving. It is prohibited to drive more than 12 hours in twenty-four. 
Other regulations concerning hours of driving apply. Under these regulations a driver must take 2, one half hour rests in a 12 hour trip, which is the maximum in a 24 hour period. He cannot drive more than 12 hours in stretches of 5 hours, 5 hours and 2 hours. Perhaps there are technicalities in relation to trips which take place before and after midnight, but the spirit of the regulations is clear. Although it is perhaps technically possible to drive a truck within the speed limit between Sydney and Melbourne in 12 hours it is only just possible. In actual experience I do not believe it can be achieved. The trip must take more than 12 hours. One major operator quotes 14 hours. For operators to be within the law as I understand it, trucks must carry 2 drivers, arrange for change-overs or wait for long periods along the route. Some do, many do not. If the time limit regulations were enforced the economics of many operators who operate single driver trucks between Sydney and Melbourne would be altered adversely. The regulations should be enforced. 
Speed and weight are both important factors in both the deterioration of the Hume and in the safety aspects of travel on the highway. Driver efficiency is no less important. The New South Wales State Government has at its disposal the means of controlling to a significant extent each of these 3 factors. No new regulations or controls need to be introduced; they exist now and have done for some years. All that is required is for the New South Wales authorities to enforce the existing regulations. If nothing else were done I am of the view that the Hume would have a longer life, would be cheaper to maintain and would experience fewer accidents. 
More needs to be done. There needs to be a greater effort directed towards encouraging freight to be moved by rail. Obviously the railway has a major task in front of it in this respect but the challenge must be accepted. Thomas Nationwide Transport Ltd, the major transport group, already operates its own train and has done for 10 years. This train operates on the Sydney-Melbourne run 6 days a week. TNT owns the rolling stock, handles its own loading and unloading, the railway does the haulage and provides the engine. Freight rates are the same on the TNT trains as they are on the TNT trucks, although the road service is faster. The significant feature of the train is that each trip it makes it carries a minimum 450 tonnes of freight, the equivalent of about 18 trucks. The fact that the train operates keeps over 100 trucks a week off the Hume Highway. This train can carry 600 tonnes of freight each trip. That is equivalent to keeping 1 50 trucks a week off the Hume. If TNT can do it, others can do it and the railways ought to be encouraging this soft of operation. Not only does it improve the position of the railways; it improves conditions on the Hume. If the road regulations are enforced or hardened operators will have to look more to rail. 
Railway authorities should be looking to leasing goods yard space to commercial transport operators who could handle their own loading or unloading. They should be looking to improve the time delays which plague railway goods yard and shunting operations. They should be eliminating the damage caused to freight, which seems far more prevalent on rail than on road. They should be making the use of rail far more attractive. Little needs to be done to the main southern line to improve the efficiency of the line. A double track runs from Sydney to Junee and from Junee to Albury the line is single track. The 
Bureau of Transport Economics has recommended the introduction of a series of extended loops and centralised traffic control between Junee and Albury. The Bureau puts the cost of this at $3. 92m, and those figures relate to the year 1973. The introduction of these improvements would give the equivalent of a double line facility for a fraction of the cost. In any case dual carriageways are estimated to average about $1m per kilometre as against $320,000 per kilometre for double line railway. 
I have argued that the Federal Government is undertaking a massive investment on behalf of the nation in the Sydney-Melbourne Hume Highway project. It is in the national interest that this highway is put to optimum use. If it is used to excess the cost of providing and maintaining the Hume will become a burden out of proportion to the nation's priorities. The State Government in New South Wales has at its disposal the means to effectively regulate the movement of heavy traffic on the Hume, and it is the heavy traffic that is the cause of so much concern. New South Wales has only to enforce the means which are already in existence. 
I have argued for a greater and continually increasing amount of freight to be diverted to rail as an effective means of taking pressure off the Hume. I would like to see co-operation between the New South Wales and Federal governments on the determination of the optimum level of traffic appropriate to the Hume and directed towards the development of rail as a more significant carrier of inter-capital freight. I have sought to raise this matter in an objective and non-political fashion because of the importance I attach to the subject. I would hope that the question will be given full consideration and that the desired results can be achieved in the interests of the nation. 
-The Asian Development Bank (Additional Subscriptions) Bill which is before the House this evening is, I am pleased to say, not a controversial Bill. The Opposition supports the concept of it. Of course, the Government is very pleased that it is able to assist the countries which benefit from the Asian Development Bank, by subscribing additional capital in that institution. The Bill seeks to provide additional capital to the extent of $US346.1m of which $US34.6m is to be paid up and the remainder is to be on call. The purpose of the Asian Development Bank which has its headquarters in Manila is to provide funds to promote investment and to provide technical assistance to developing countries which are members of the Asian Development Bank in an effort to foster economic growth and to co-operate in trade and development in the Asian and Pacific region. Australia has been a strong supporter and indeed an active supporter of the Asian Development Bank in the past. We believe as a Government that the Asian Development Bank is an effective and efficient means of promoting co-operation and development in the region. 
Australia was a foundation member of the Bank when it was originally commenced back in 1966. Over the years it has supported the Bank's operations consistently. In fact at the moment, Australia is the third largest donor country, in terms of subscriptions, to the Asian Development Bank, after Japan and the United States. The Bank is an efficient and effective institution. Its principal operations are in the South East Asian area and the South Pacific area and those areas are, of course, of particular interest to Australia in its overseas aid activities. It is interesting to note that statistics from the Asian Development Bank show that the loans approved last year- this is, the financial year 1975- 76- amounted to $US660m which compared with $US548m the previous year, an increase of approximately 2 1 per cent. 
I was interested to see the sort of loans that the Bank was making. In the previous year they were made to 12 developing countries. The Philippines was the largest receiver of assistance from the Bank. It obtained loans to the amount of $106m. South Korea arranged loans to the amount of $10 1.5m. Pakistan received $97m; Indonesia, $78m; Thailand, $77m; Bangladesh, $51m; Malaysia, $48m; Burma, $31m; Sri Lanka, $30m; and Hong Kong, $20m. Countries such as Nepal and Western Samoa received smaller amounts. It is an interesting spread of operations for the Asian Development Bank. The loans that the Bank is providing to these countries are of great assistance to them in their national development programs. By the end of that year, the Bank had lent in all $2, 584m for 228 different projects in 2 1 of the member countries. Of that amount, $ 1 ,925m or 74 per cent was from the ordinary capital resources of the Bank and $659m or the remaining 26 per cent came from other resources. 
It is again interesting to see that there is a fair amount of sense in the way in which these loans are directed. Food is obviously a major problem in that part of the world and 37 per cent of the total approved loans - an amount of $245m- went to agricultural and agricultural industry sectors in the various countries which received loans. An amount of just over 19 per cent went to other industry. Including contributions to national development banks in the member countries that amount was $ 128.5m. Public utilities received 28 per cent or 29 per cent of the loans provided- an amount of about $190m. Transportation and communications as a group received 12 per cent or $82m. Education, which was lower on the list of priorities, received about 2 per cent of the loans or about $ 14.5m. It is interesting to look at the experience of the Asian Development Bank and see what sort of projects it is supporting. I think there is general agreement in this Parliament as to the sort of priorities which the Bank is determining, such as the ones to which I have just referred. 
Another interesting thing about the Bank is the role that it is playing in the reconstruction of Vietnam. A group from the Asian Development Bank visited Vietnam. It was a very well received delegation. It was the first delegation into Vietnam from the non-socialist world since the communist take-over of South Vietnam in April 1975. The delegation confirmed that the newly unified country was very anxious to receive development assistance which would help the war damaged economy to get back on its feet. Unlike a lot of other official delegations which have gone to Vietnam since the take-over, the Development Bank team was allowed to go to Saigon, which is now known as Ho Chi Minh City. It was also allowed access to the Mekong Delta area. Most other delegations have been confined to Hanoi and the northern areas of Vietnam. According to the report received after that delegation's visit, it was given access to whatever it wanted to see. 
The Development Bank had 9 projects under way in what was South Vietnam at the time that Saigon fell to the communists in 1975. There was $40m of loan commitments involved, the majority of which was at concessional terms from the special fund of the Bank. Only $5m had been handed over at the time that the regime began to collapse and the communists siezed control. Last year the new Vietnamese administration renewed its membership of the Asian Development Bank, the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. Since that time it has indicated that it has a significant interest in gaining assistance from the outside world- from organisations such as the Asian Development Bank- to reconstruct the economy. Obviously there is a lot of reconstruction to do after the damage of the last decade or so. 
The National Country Party is very pleased to be associated with this Bill. We think it is another significant step in the Government's foreign aid and financial assistance to other countries. We believe that it is a proper way to give foreign aid in that we do not necessarily define the directions that the investment takes. We are prepared to entrust to an effective organisation such as the Asian Development Bank the decisions as to exactly who will receive funds, what sort of projects will be supported and so on. On behalf of the National Country Party, I offer our full support for this Bill. I am very pleased that the Australian Labor Party is able to support this legislation. I wish it a speedy passage. I hope it will not be too many months before the funds which Australia is providing as a result of this Bill will find their way into useful projects in those countries in South East Asia which will benefit from those funds. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I am interested, as are the honourable members, in the community and the services which are available to communities. I have seen published and I have encouraged in my electorate, the issuing of community directories. I think that it is always healthy if people in the community are prepared to put some time into making available to members of the community listings of the services that are available to the community in which they live. Therefore it was with a great degree of interest that I looked through a rather handsome community services directory which I understand had been issued in the Rockhampton district and noted that the cover of the community services directory for Rockhampton boldly displays the symbol of the boy scout movement. I turned the cover and read inside that the publication is being organised on such a basis that the profits from it will go to the boy scout movement. That is something which all members of Parliament would commend. The document is being sold for $3 a copy and 90c a copy which we assume will be the profit on it will go to the scouting movement. I then read through the document with interest and was amazed at what I found. 
This document is nothing more than a front for the Australian Labor Party. In my view the boy scout movement has been abused by the Aus.tralian Labor Party in Queensland and particularly by  Mr Keith  Wright, the State Labor member for Rockhampton. I briefly want to reveal to the House the results of my quick research through this document once I saw the tenor of it. The name of  Mr Keith  Wright, who also happens to be the  President  of the Rockhampton Community Service Club which published the document, the State Labor member for Rockhampton, and also the  President  of the District Scouting Association, is mentioned not less than S 1 times in this document.  His  telephone number is listed in it not less than 67 times. The Australian Labor Party is mentioned not less than 79 times. By comparison- honourable members might be interested to hear this- the Liberal Party is mentioned twice, the National Party is mentioned 3 times, the Federal member for the Division of Capricornia,  Mr Carige,  is mentioned 3 times,  Senator Collard,  a National Party senator for Queensland, is mentioned once, and a State Minister,  Mr Hewitt,  and another State member,  Mr Hartwig,  each get 3 mentions. Every trade union in Queensland is listed and the names of all other Australian Labor Party senators for Queensland are mentioned. There is a listing of all the Australian Labor Party councillors in the Rockhampton area, there is a listing of all ALP branches in the Rockhampton area but there is no mention of the National Party or Liberal Party branches. One very interesting point in the book is that the former member for Capricornia who lost his seat a year before its publication is listed under the category of the member for Capricornia. 
Our celebrated  Mr Wright  who is abusing the boy scout movement and using it as nothing more than a front for the ALP propaganda and publicity machine, has listed himself in this document 51 times. He includes himself as being the person to contact - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Primary Industry. When will the Minister be able to announce details of the proposed meat and livestock corporation? Is the Minister able to give the House any details of the progress made to date? What will be the powers of the proposed corporation in respect of trading and how will the corporation be structured in terms of industry representation? 
I  preface my question, which is directed to the Minister for Defence, by pointing  out that in 1975-76 some $148m of a total defence vote of $1.8 billion was allocated to defence equipment and stores- hardware, as it is called- according to the publication  Public A Authority Finance: Federal Authorities  released by the Australian Statistician. Would the Minister agree, as an example, that if the provision of golf courses on Army bases was discontinued, this would not represent a cut in defence expenditure? Would the Minister agree that there are many aspects of the Government's defence spending that are not directly related to the defence effort? If he does agree, would he give consideration to presenting the defence budget to Australians in such a way as to distinguish between uniformed service and hardware expenditure and other defence expenditure, so that the overall defence budget can become the subject of more critical examination? 
-The important thing to be understood when we are looking at this clause is the state of the meat industry as it exists in Australia at the moment and the way in which that industry is structured. This legislation is designed to cater largely for that portion of the Australian meat and livestock produce which is exported. As the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  has said, there are constitutional difficulties associated with the introduction of a domestic marketing scheme in this country. The Commonwealth Government does not have the power, of its own accord, to introduce a domestic marketing scheme in Australia. As I understand the situation, the Minister has given an undertaking that if the States are able to reach agreement in this area the Commonwealth Government, for its part, will co-operate with them. In the meantime, the Opposition has moved an amendment to allow for what is, in effect, a domestic marketing scheme within Australia which obviously must be subject to constitutional difficulties.  Mr Deputy Chairman,  is it appropriate at this time to talk about the second amendment that is to be moved by the Opposition or do I have the right to speak on that amendment after it is moved? 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)That  would not be in order. The honourable member for Blaxland has not yet moved that amendment. 
Question put: 
That the paragraph proposed to be omitted  (Mr Keating's amendment)  stand part of the clause. 
-The Opposition has moved an amendment to this clause which has the effect of introducing ministerial control into this particular power. There has been a lot of comment in the industry, particularly from the Australian Wool and Meat Producers Federation and the cattlemen's union group, about the extent of ministerial power under this legislation. I want to take the opportunity during discussion on this clause to draw attention to some of the powers available to the Minister in relation to other corporations which exist by virtue of statute of this Parliament. Under the Wheat Industry Stabilization Act the Minister has powers under section 8 concerning the composition of the Australian Wheat Board and in relation to resignations and termination of appointment he has powers under sections 1 1 and 12. He has powers concerning delegations by the Board under section 14; performance of its functions by the Board under sections 17 and 18; approval for the appointment of overseas agents under section 20; payments for wheat under section 24; declaration of final delivery day for a season under section 27; the average support price under section 29; refunds from the Fund under section 31; the home consumption price of wheat under section 32; the special account for freight to Tasmania under section 33; borrowing under section 36; licensed receivers under section 40; and the operation of State laws under section 4 1 . 
In the Wool Industry Act the Minister has powers in relation to the composition of the Australian Wool Corporation under sections 8 and 13; the appointment of a deputy chairman under section 11; the granting of leave under section 15; vacation of and removal from office and resignation under sections 16, 17 and 18; the functions conferred by the Act under section 20; consultation with trade unions under section 20A; borrowing under sections 26, 27 and 28; the market support fund under section 2 8 A; reimbursements under sections 3 1 and 32; and profits and losses in relation to wool marketing under section 33. The Treasurer must approve the bank with which the Corporation deals under section 34 and investments made by the Corporation under section 36. The Minister, again, has powers over the functions relating to wool marketing under section 38; over other trading functions under section 39A; wool futures contracts under section 40; the flexible reserve price scheme under section 41; payments to the Wool Research Trust Fund under section 68; research expenditure under section 69; the application of the Wool Research Trust Fund under sections 70 and 71; research agreements under section 73; and restrictions on transfer of land and buildings under section 76. 
It goes on. I do not want to catalogue all the functions for the House but I think it is important that people are aware of the fact that this particular legislation does not represent the first occasion on which ministerial powers over a corporation have been put before the Parliament and instituted in the form of legislation. I could refer also- I do not want to take the time of the House on this occasion- to the Apple and Pear Corporation Act where similar and wide ranging powers lie with the Minister under the provisions of that Act. I think it is also pertinent to note that a comparison of the Ministerial involvement under the Meat Industry Act, which is the Act which this legislation is replacing, and the Bill which we are debating, the Australian Meat and Live-Stock Corporation Bill, reveals that the powers which the Minister has at his disposal are very similar between the 2 pieces of legislation. In fact, if there is a difference it is in the area of appeals to decisions to withhold or cancel or suspend the licences which, under the Meat Board legislation, was a power available to the Minister. Now it is not. It is a power available to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. With regard to the clause relating to staff and consultants, the terms and conditions used to be approved by the Public Service Board. Now the terms and conditions will be approved by the Minister. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)-I  think the Chair has been pretty lenient with the honourable member considering that we are discussing trading powers in this clause and not cancellations of conditions to licences, which occurs later on in the Bill. I ask the honourable member to conclude his remarks by sticking to clause 9 which deals with trading powers. 
I respect your view  Mr Deputy Chairman.  I am directing my remarks to the amendment which has been moved by the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  which deals with powers of the Minister in relation to that particular clause. I have made my point and I will resume my seat. 
-The Opposition has moved an amendment proposing a new clause 9A which purports to give more power to the Minister and the Government. What is interesting about this amendment is that it proposes to give more power to the Minister over the whole range of functions of the Australian Meat and Live-stock Corporation. The Bill as proposed by the Government gives powers to the Minister in specific areas where they are warranted, but the amendment proposes to give him power over the performance of the functions and the exercise of the powers of the whole of the Corporation. No question has caused more concern in the industry than the whole question of ministerial influence over the Corporation. As I said a moment ago- I now reinforce my earlier argument- the powers which the Minister has taken under this legislation are quite reasonable. They have been included only where they are necessary and they are quite specific in their application. The Australian Labor Party has made it quite clear by the amendment that it wants the Minister to have overriding control over the total range of the powers and functions of the Corporation. The Government opposes the amendment. 
-This clause continues to be opposed by the Australian Wool and Meat Producers Federation and by the Cattlemen's Union. It has the broad agreement of other sections of the industry. On the exporterprocessing side, the belief is still held that there should be more than one representative from that sector of the industry. I believe that, for any rational understanding of this legislation and this clause, and of the reasons for the creation of the Corporation, we must take account of the industry as it exists and as it is structured in Australia at this time. I am aware that there are sectors of the industry which would seek to introduce a domestic marketing scheme in Australia. That is not the objective of this legislation. As I said earlier, the Commonwealth Government does not have the constitutional power to establish a scheme to control the domestic marketing of meat and livestock. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  has given his assurance that, subject to the agreement of the States to such a proposal, the Commonwealth would cooperate. Of course, such a scheme would require complementary Commonwealth and State legislation. We are now looking at the industry as it is presently structured. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  I do not follow the honourable member's point of order. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  According to the Standing Orders, the Chair is not really interested in the issue, anyway. The Standing Orders state that honourable members may not vote without declaring that they have a vested interest in the relevant matter. I do not know of any standing order that prohibits anybody from talking to an issue. I do not think on my reading of the relevant standing order that the honourable member for Macarthur would be out of order if he had not declared his pecuniary interest if he wanted to discuss the issue. But that is a hypothetical situation and I do not think the Chair needs to worry about it. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- I am afraid that the Chair did not see any accosting take place. 
While we are on the subject I suppose I had better declare that I, too, produce cattle. The Committee is debating the structure and membership of the board of the Corporation. I believe the membership proposed in clause 18 is fair and reasonable. There is a balance between producers, exporters and members with special expertise. The bulk of the powers of the Corporation aim at the control of the export of meat and livestock from Australia. The fact is that exported meat is not owned by producers but is exported by those to whom it is sold. It is difficult to argue that producers should have a majority in this situation. It has been suggested that exporters and processors are under represented. I do not argue against that. There is no doubt that producers are entitled to a fair degree of say, as there is a direct relationship between the sale and the presentation of their product overseas and the overseas prices achieved for their product. 
I have given a great deal of thought to this question of the structure of the Board of the Corporation. I believe that if producers were to have a majority on the Board they would be able to dominate the decisions of the Corporation through a bloc vote. If this were the case, it could be argued that there would be not much point in having other members on the Corporation at all. The Board has been structured in such a way that producers, need to win at least one of the remaining members of the Board of the Corporation by logic, argument and debate in order to achieve a majority and to have their views implemented. I believe that this is a far healthier situation than to have a straight producer majority. Similar provisions exist in the structures of other corporations such the Australian Wool Corporation, the Australian Apple and Pear Corporation and the Australian Dairy Corporation. I have heard no suggestion that these corporations are any less effective for the lack of a producer majority. The Australian Dairy Corporation has 3 producer representatives out of a board of eleven. The Australian Wool Corporation has 4 producer representatives out of a board of ten and the Australian Apple and Pear Corporation has 4 producer representatives out of a board of 9. I think that the most important aspect of this proposal is that it is essential that the new Corporation be able to operate successfully. I have no fears in this regard. I believe that the Corporation will be in the best possible position effectively and aggressively to market Australia's beef on overseas markets. 
Will the Minister for Primary Industry inform the House of the current situation in relation to the export of live sheep from different Australian ports? What action can be taken to ensure that live sheep exports are not interrupted by trade union activities? 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Primary Industry. Has the Australian Wool Corporation been given approval to borrow funds overseas? If so, how much may be borrowed? Why has this approval been given? How will the borrowing be conducted? Will the Minister inform the House where the overseas stockholdings of the Australian Wool Corporation are located and what savings could result from overseas borrowing? 
It is a matter of some interest to know why the Opposition has brought forward this matter of public importance today. One would have thought that, in the present climate in this country, the Opposition might have been more concerned with other things. Perhaps the fact that there will be an election in Queensland soon has prompted the Opposition to bring this matter forward. I think it is necessary to put the situation into some perspective. Since the mid-1960s, when the building societies came into prominence and achieved major significance, there have been four periods which have involved runs, as they are known, on building societies and in no case has there been any loss to depositors. I think it is important that we bear that m mind because the Opposition is trying to lead us to believe that there is a continuing crisis in this industry. That is not the case. 
There are a number of reasons why the building society industry has experienced some difficulty from time to time, and I think it might be worth while to outline some of those reasons. There has been rapid growth in the industry. This has strained management expertise and in some circumstances it has tended to outrun the resources which have been devoted to the supervision of the societies by the relevant State authorities. Another reason for some of the difficulties facing this industry is the strong concentration on call funds, with a high proportion of money coming from investors who are interest-sensitive and who will switch their investments from one form to another, depending on the interest rate that is available to them. This obviously means that building society deposits are always subject to being pulled out by the people who have lodged them. The industry is a very competitive one and this has contributed to a tendency for building societies to work on very fine margins between the cost of the funds that they take in from depositors and the earnings that they gain on lending them out. The fact that the industry is competitive and that there is this relatively fine margin obviously leads to a situation in which building societies can get themselves into degrees of difficulty if there are rapid changes in the financial situation. 
Building societies have always tended to run relatively low liquidity ratios, particularly in times when a demand for housing loans is anticipated. It is necessary to keep coming back to the point that there has been no loss to depositors in any of these so-called crises or runs on building societies. I think it is irresponsible for the Opposition to try to suggest in the Parliament that there is a crisis in the industry. All the Opposition is doing is adding to the concerns that some people may have, concerns which certainly are unfounded. We need also to look at where the responsibility lies in the area of building society control, management or government intervention. For many years now it has been accepted that the responsibility for sound management and appropriate financial practices among building societies lies with the State governments through their registrars. Most State governments have Ministers who are designated as being responsible for building societies. That is where the responsibility for this control lies. 
The Federal Government obviously has a role to play, but the responsibility is principally one that rests with the States. The Commonwealth may be able to promote national legislation which applies uniform standards, ratios and things of this nature to companies which operate in the building society industry, but at this stage the responsibility is primarily one that rests with the States. The Commonwealth has no hesitation in coming out and making it perfectly clear that the Reserve Bank of Australia is prepared to back the building societies when they are experiencing liquidity problems. The trading banks have made it clear that they will consider sympathetically requests for finance from building societies which are responsibly managed and which have adequate asset backing. The Reserve Bank stands ready to ensure that liquidity or other policy considerations will not be an impediment to the use of those banks' resources in backing the building societies. I think that is a fairly significant contribution from the Federal Government in an area in which it really does not have statutory control. It is an area in which we seek to co-operate with the States in seeing that the confidence of investors is not shaken. The fact that the Reserve Bank stands ready to assist is proof of our bona fides in this instance. 
It has been suggested by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  and no doubt by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  that deposit insurance ought to be looked at. Although there is some reassurance to investors in having some system of deposit insurance, it does not necessarily ensure sound management, it does not provide an alternative to sound management of societies and it does not necessarily offer protection against runs on societies. The legislation that exists in the banking field does not rule out the possibility that a bank itself might fail. It provides for intervention to manage a bank in the interests of depositors. State authorities can exercise a similar power in the case of building societies. It is true that central bank loan facilities are available to banks and authorised short term money market dealers, but these are for monetary management purposes and do not guarantee the solvency of these institutions. I think it is clear that there is not really any guarantee offered by government for the safety of depositors' funds in societies which are badly managed, which are run by incompetent management or in which frauds are involved. The Government is prepared to go as far as it can to protect the interests of depositors. Obviously, this is a moral compulsion that governments often feel bound by, but there is no compulsion on government at a federal level to involve itself in this field. What the Government is seeking to do is to regulate, to see that responsible practices are adhered to and that its money market policy, interest rate policy, money supply policy and things of this nature are not being abused. 
There has been a great deal of emphasis on the Financial Corporations Act by the Leader of the Opposition and by the honourable member for Oxley. I think it was stated by the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  and the Minister assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Viner)  that that Act was not intentionally formulated with the object of providing a means for protecting investors or the financial stability of individual building societies. It was acknowledged at the time the Act was passed that it was a matter for the States within the framework of registration and supervision which they have had over a long period of time. If Part IV of the Financial Corporations Act were implemented, it would not enhance the scope of the sorts of things the Leader of the Opposition and the honourable member for Oxley are talking about. The intention of Part IV of the Act primarily is to enhance the scope of effective monetary policy rather than to supervise the management of individual corporations. Even if they were fully exercised, those powers in Part IV are not adequate or appropriate to ensure the financial stability of individual societies. We come back to the situation that there must be an understanding of where the responsibility lies in this particular area and what the Commonwealth Government has done. It has thrown the weight of the Reserve Bank behind the properly managed building societies that are experiencing liquidity problems. It is necessary to have an understanding of the industry to realise why and where and how these societies are different from the other financial institutions, particularly in this area of a reliance on call funds and a reliance on funds from depositors who are interest sensitive. The Federal Government will continue to do what is within its power to ensure that confidence is retained by depositors in building societies. 
-This legislation is not complex. The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  has indicated that his Party will oppose it for particular reasons. The Government obviously will ensure that it passes. It is a fact of history that the salary paid to a Governor-General is not increased during the period for which he is in office. Therefore, the only opportunity presented to a government to ensure that more reasonable remuneration is paid is when a change of office holder is being contemplated. 
I wish to pay my respects to a man who has, I believe, fulfilled his office with a great degree of responsibility. The present Governor-General is one who has understood the importance of the Australian Constitution, something that cannot be said for a great many members of the Labor Party in this country and this Parliament. 
The Constitution which we in Australia have accepted over a period of 76 years involves the Queen, her representative in Australia, the Senate and the House of Representatives in legislative acts on behalf of the people generally. The present Governor-General protected that Constitution and, as a result, was subjected to more derision than probably any other individual has suffered in the history of this country. Millions of citizens will never forget the actions of the former Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  and his colleagues, and in particular the statement in which he called upon his supporters to maintain their rage and express it against the GovernorGeneral, who had acted so responsibly and courageously in the interests of the country. The Governor-General had exercised great judgment in an extremely difficult situation, one which had been exacerbated by a Prime Minister prepared to ride roughshod over a Constitution that had been accorded due respect for 76 years. The Governor-General had ensured a continuation of parliamentary democracy.  His  action was vindicated in the subsequent election by an overwhelming majority of Australians, and that support spoke for itself. 
I respect the right of the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith, and of other Australians, to promote discussion on the form the Australian Constitution might take in future years. It is worth mentioning that the Governor-General has himself encouraged discussion of the role of his office and its relationship to the Constitution. All I would like to say at this stage about that proposition is that if we ever accept and adopt another Constitution in this nation, I hope sincerely that that Constitution will provide a similar system of checks and balance to control the likes of Prime Minister Whitlam who may foist themselves upon parliaments and the people of Australia at some future date. The experience of October and November 1975 is, I believe, burned into the minds of Australians, and rightly so. The fact is that a Prime Minister, who is supposed to hold a responsible position on behalf of Australians, who takes an oath of office, who sits in this Parliament on behalf of Australians, was prepared to reject the Constitution, to ride roughshod over that Constitution for his own short term political gains. 
We have in Australia a system which provides for a Parliament to operate. The Senate has the same rights as the House of Representatives in all respects other than the amendment of financial Bills. The Senate has an equal right with the House of Representatives to reject a financial Bill. The Senate was rejecting a financial Bill. The Senate has the authority to reject a financial Bill if it so chooses. The fact that a Prime Minister was prepared not to accept the situation which is in the Constitution, and was prepared to exercise every means that he could find available to him to govern without Supply, to find any situation to perpetuate his own time in office, proves that the Constitution of Australia is still a very workable document for all Australians. There were checks and balances within that system which the Governor-General had the courage to exercise. As a result of that we have a maintenance of parliamentary democracy in this country. All Australians owe the Governor-General a great debt for that It is almost impossible to contemplate the system that might be operating in Australia today, late in 1977, had there not been that restraint exercised over Prime Minister Whitlam in November 1975. All Australians will remember, and if a new Constitution is ever being contemplated, as has been suggested by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  and others, I would hope sincerely that similar checks and balances will operate in that Constitution, as operate in the present Constitution. The lessons of October and November 1975, when a Prime Minister was prepared to flout the Constitution and throw the Constitution out the window for his own ends must never be allowed to happen again in this country. I am not concerned with the arguments that are being put forward by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith. I am concerned with the role that  Sir John  Kerr played in preserving the Australian Constitution as it exists now and as it existed in late 1 975. The GovernorGeneral acted courageously and responsibly in an intensely difficult situation and deserves, and 
I believe has, the respect of responsible Australians. On my own behalf, on behalf of the National Country Party and, I am sure, on behalf of the entire Government and most Australians, certainly responsible Australians, I want to place on record our appreciation of a great Australian. 
I support the motion moved by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and supported by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  and others and make particular reference to a predecessor of mine,  Mr Ian  Pettitt. Ian Pettitt represented the electorate of Hume between 1963 and 1972 and represented it extremely well. I came to know him in the time leading up to my election and the advice and assistance he was able to give me at that time and subsequent to my election to this place were invaluable to me. Ian Pettitt and I developed a close relationship over that period and up until his untimely death on Christmas Day. As has been mentioned by the Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  and the  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Sinclair),  Ian covered immense distances as he did his job around his electorate. He maintained a facility for the personal touch which many politicians have not been able to achieve in the way in which he achieved it. In addition to travelling all those miles to attend functions he was always able to stop to have a cup of tea with somebody on his way to or from a function. In my travels around my electorate the list of people I encounter who recall the visits that Ian Pettitt paid to their homes, shops, businesses or whatever is extremely long. Ian Pettitt will long be remembered for the innovations he introduced to the district around Harden on the South- West Slopes, particularly in respect of pasture improvement, the use of superphosphate, the upgrading of pastures and improving stock carrying capacities. He was a leader in the pastoral area; a man who brought his knowledge into the Parliament and used it well. 
Ian Pettitt deserves great credit for having held a seat which at that time had a long history of being an extremely marginal seat, even more marginal than it is now. As honourable members will recall, its representation changed regularly between  Colonel Anderson  and Arthur Fuller in the years leading up to 1963 when Ian Pettitt won the seat. In 1966 he resisted a strong challenge from  Mr Menadue,  the secretary to the then Leader of the Opposition. In that election Ian Pettitt received a record majority in Hume. In 1969 he held the seat again. In 1972 he was unlucky enough to be defeated by a very small number of votes after distribution of preferences. Hume continued to be an extremely marginal seat. Ian Pettitt held it through difficult times in the rural industry and was extremely unfortunate to lose it in 1972. 
I think that all members of the National Country Party organisation in Hume would wish to be associated with this condolence motion. On their behalf, as well as on behalf of all my colleagues in this Parliament, I express to Ian Pettitt 's widow, Lucy, and his three sons, Peter, Simon and Lachlan, my sincere sympathies and condolences. I support the motion. 
-Thank you very much,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  That is a hard act to follow. I have just been given a quotation of the words of  Sir Winston  Churchill in 1935 on the occasion of a provocative maiden speech being made. He said: 
Call that a maiden speech? It was a brazen hussy of a speech. Never did such a painted lady of a speech parade itself before a modest parliament! 
I think that that is probably worth saying, particularly as the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding),  who has just left the chamber, described himself in this place last week as a well worn maiden.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I would be pleased if you would pass on my congratulations to  Mr Speaker  on his reelection to his office and his elevation to the knighthood, and to the  Chairman  of Committees on his election to that position. I am sure both will serve this House well.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  it is also good to see you back in this House in your capacity as the honourable member for Wakefield. I also congratulate those who have made maiden speeches in this Parliament and those who are yet to make them. I think it is good to hear maiden speeches being made in a parliament. It is a healthy sign that there are honourable members who are prepared for one reason or another to step aside and make way for others. This is a fairly restricted House. Only 124 people can be elected to it at any one time. Obviously if people outlast their useful stay in the Parliament they make it difficult for those who have a capacity to make a contribution. It is a healthy sign to see new members of this Parliament. I commend those people who have spent some time in the Parliament and who have been prepared to step aside to make way for others. I know that in some parliaments the pension system is such that in some cases people who have served in a ministerial capacity are encouraged by the force of pecuniary incentive to retire relatively soon after they lose their ministerial office. 
It does not happen in this Parliament, as the honourable member for Hindmarsh has reminded me. But I think that on occasions we can be criticised as a parliament for having some people among us who have probably outlived their usefulness and who are only warming a seat to the exclusion of somebody else who may be able to make a contribution. It may be possible to devise some system which encourages more maidens to come into the chamber. 
As a result of the redistribution the electorate that I represent has been changed significantly. Its enrolment rose from slightly in excess of 50,000 constituents to slightly less than 70,000 constituents, which is a fairly sizable increase. The area covered increased from 30,000 square kilometres to 50,000 square kilometres. There may be some on my right geographically, although not politically, who do not appreciate what it means to represent an electorate of that size, but it does create all sorts of difficulties. My electorate has taken in the subdivisions of Forbes, Canowindra, Bogan Gate, West Wyalong, Ardlethan and Coolamon and as such has taken in a far greater area of the magnificently productive southern and south-western slopes and central area of New South Wales. I think it is inarguable that the electorate of Hume is the most productive agricultural area in Australia. It is highly productive in terms of wheat, wool, fat lambs, cattle, fruit and other things which are important in the agricultural community. 
I pay tribute to a former colleague of mine, the former honourable member for Riverina, John Sullivan. He made a great contribution not only to his party but also to the Parliament and his electorate of Riverina. He, as much as anybody, was a victim of the redistribution which came into force prior to the last election. John Sullivan's electorate was expanded to take in the majority of the former electorate of Darling, including, of course, the great industrial city of Broken Hill. It just was not possible, despite the magnificent effort he made during that campaign and despite the number of votes that he won, to withstand the effect of the redistribution. Let me reinforce some of the arguments that were put the other night at a dinner in Horsham by my leader, the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony),  when he said that there are electorates in Australia that are getting beyond the bounds of manageability, where the country voice is being diminished. I do not know what is the solution to these problems unless it is to extend the size of this Parliament quite considerably. Something needs to be done to ensure that people have reasonable access to those who come to this Parliament to represent them. 
On the subject of the Parliament let me refer to remarks that have been made and questions that have been asked in recent days by the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron).  I think it is proper that those remarks were made. I noted with interest also that  Mr Speaker  himself made certain comments in relation to the Parliament. The honourable member for Hindmarsh raised the question of the estimates for the Parliament, matters which ought properly to be the responsibility of the Parliament and which ought to be debated in the Parliament. He raised the matter not only in speeches but also by way of questions to Ministers. If my memory serves me correctly, he asked a question on this subject of the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  and  Mr Speaker  commented upon it. I think that the answer that was given was probably a proper one in view of what happens, but what we need to think about, in terms of the Parliament and the estimates, is whether there is some way in which those estimates could be discussed in this place before they are submitted to the Government for confirmation or otherwise. 
It could very easily become a routine part of the autumn session of the Parliament to have some time set aside in which those responsible for drawing up the estimates for the Parliament could submit those estimates to the House for consideration. The House could make some input, comment and discussion on those estimates and they could then go on to the Government, having been approved by the House, not subject to interference by the Department, the Public Service or the Executive. I think that this is something that ought to be thought about and I personally am grateful to the honourable member for Hindmarsh for raising it. 
Similarly, improvements could be made to debates. I do not think that the Parliament has enough control over the matters which are debated in the chambers. Some sort of arrangement ought to be made with the Leader of the House to see that opportunity is given for the Parliament to set its own priorities to a greater extent than it does, rather than dealing solely with the Executive's business. We must find a way to do that. I do not know how it can be done. I do not advocate a confrontation with the Executive although, if things do not improve, that may be the only way in which it can be done. In this chamber there are more members than there are Ministers and perhaps, if honourable members are of a mind to do so, the Executive can be outvoted. At this stage I do not advocate that line of action but we have to find a way to improve matters. 
I draw attention to the fact that committees of the Parliament which sit for long hours and which do a great deal of work over a long period, present their reports to the Parliament and, 99 times out of 100- I do not think that I am exaggeratingthey lie on the table, they are not debated, nor are they acted upon by the Executive. Some provision should be made in the practices of the House for that to be done. In this context we must remember that the Joint Parliamentary Committee on the New and Permanent Parliament House has suggested that 1988 would be a good time at which to open the new and permanent Parliament House, on the 200th anniversary of Australia's settlement by Captain Phillip. In matters such as the debating of parliamentary committee reports and the Estimates, which are so dear to the heart of the honourable member for Hindmarsh, the Parliament should have some say in whether or not we are to proceed with this new building. We should bear in mind that if we want to open a new building in 1988 we ought to make a start on it fairly soon. 
I was pleased to hear  Mr Speaker  express the view that the office of  Speaker  should be politically independent. That is a matter that ought to be pursued. As a result of different matters that have been raised and different attitudes that have been expressed by honourable members and by  Mr Speaker  himself, I look forward optimistically to the time when the Parliament becomes more independent and, to some extent, more the master of its own business and affairs than it appears to be in practice, although on paper the situation is different. 
Let me mention some of the concerns that are being expressed at the moment in my electorate. I suppose that the first concern is with unemployment, its administration and the way in which matters are developing in that area. I do not want to get into debate about dole bludgers. That term does not appeal to me particularly. People in my area are concerned- it is a concern that I share and that I am very happy to express and bring into this place- that there should be some change in the system to discriminate between those who are genuine and those who are not. A system of administration is needed in the area of unemployment benefits to achieve that end. It has been suggested to me that perhaps it could be done if a recipient of unemployment benefit had to present on a regular basis, as he does with his income statement, a list of those positions for which he has applied, with some comment from the prospective employer as to why he was not successful. That would provide a reasonably easy way of determining whether a person is genuine or not. If he could not produce an application for jobs - 
That may be so. I am just canvassing a view. I am not suggesting that it is the only view. Something needs to be done. People object- I think that they are entitled to object and I object myself sometimes as a taxpayer- at the amount of money that is going out and at the return that is coming in for it. There is supposed to be a lot of unemployment. Let me cite an example. My family recently placed an advertisement in the  Land  newspaper and in the Goulburn newspaper for a farm manager and, in the entire readership of the Goulburn district and in the area covered by the  Land  newspaper, there were five applications for the position. It makes one wonder whether people are really serious. I do not want to canvass the matter any- further than that except to say that people are concerned and the Government is expected to come up with some sort of solution to see that the people who are genuine receive the unemployment benefit but that those who are not do not receive it. 
That argument can be taken into the area of social security generally. People are becoming more and more aware of the sorts of figures that were mentioned in the last Budget Speech, that 57c in every dollar that is raised in tax goes into the area of social security. People are entitled to object to that. If we are not careful we will finish up with a taxpayer's revolution. They will not be prepared to continue to support that sort of thing. Every time something new is handed out or a new benefit is made available it becomes part of the system, and it is impossible to retrieve it. One thing that interests me is that in a couple of areas at least people can qualify for a benefit by taking deliberate and positive decisions and action. The supporting mother's benefit is one such area. There seem to be innumerable cases of young girls deliberately getting themselves into the situation of bearing children for no other reason than to make themselves financially secure and independent for as long as they choose. 
-Perhaps the honourable member for Shortland is providing a professional service and standing in outside season. I do not know. It would be better for him not to enter the debate because his remarks could be interpreted that way. As well, this sort of thing occurs in the area of unemployment benefit where somebody deliberately chooses to leave his job and, after a waiting period of six weeks, qualifies for a benefit. I regard that as being totally separate and different from the situation in which somebody reaches the age of 65 or 70 or some age that qualifies him for a benefit, because he cannot hurry up the process, he cannot fiddle with it; he cannot adjust it; it just happens. But there are other areas in which people, by making a deliberate decision, can qualify for a benefit. I refer particularly to the supporting mother's benefit and to the unemployment benefit. People in my area are concerned about these matters. The honourable member for Hindmarsh might be interested in the fact that the last time the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  made statistics available, on a postcode basis, of where the pensions were going, I went through them and extracted all the details relating to postcodes in the electorate of Hume. The figures showed that one person in five- we can assume that is one adult in five- is in receipt of some sort of social security benefit. That does not include people receiving repatriation benefits and it does not include recipients of unemployment benefits. So the number is significantly higher than one in five. So I suppose that every two and a half adults in the community who are working- and certainly not all adults are working because there are a lot of wives at home who do not work- are supporting somebody on a social security or repatriation or unemployment-type benefit. That is too high a ratio and somehow or other we must do something about it. I think that people in the electorate at large, and particularly people in my electorate, are reaching the stage where they want to see something done about it. 
Health costs is another area. I guess one could spend 20 minutes talking about health costs. Again, people in my area- it is not restricted to my area- are getting very annoyed at the trends that are occurring in the area of health. It has come to my notice that in a country town with two hospitals about $100,000 is being paid out each year to the doctors in the town for their normal morning or evening calls that are made as they do their rounds. That is $100,000 which is being paid out which a couple of years ago, before this Medibank monster appeared, was not paid out. It was done under the honorary system. I believe that people and doctors themselves are concerned that they are almost forced to earn these high incomes. I believe that serious consideration ought to be given to the reintroduction of the honorary system. I think most doctors would agree with it. Most doctors would be happy about it, but there are other problems and for some reason it cannot be done. We must look at systems such as no claim bonuses in health insurance and a higher gap which must be paid by the patient when he partakes of some medical service or other without at the same time disadvantaging those who have a genuine problem. These things are important. It is crazy to have a situation where every doctor in the town is almost compelled under our tax system to drive a Mercedes Benz because it is uneconomic for him to do otherwise. People are objecting to it. They know what is going on. They can see it. They are concerned about the fact that if they want any sort of decent health cover it will cost them $400 or $500 a year and the charge is rising fast. 
There is a range of things about which I should have liked to speak if time had permitted. I look forward to other occasions on which to do so. Telecom Australia is one subject on which I want to make a final point. We hear a lot about the profit that has been made and the capital program. The capital program of Telecom needs to be looked at by the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  and by Telecom itself because I believe that we cannot justify the amount of expenditure that is going into that capital program until everybody in Australia is provided with a decent and reasonable service at a decent and reasonable price. Once we have achieved that situation I do not mind if Telecom then starts to develop all sorts of sophisticated technology through the capital program. At this stage members of parliament, particularly those representing country areas, must bring this argument to the Parliament and make sure that it is understood. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I should like to commend the Government on its flexibility in this matter. It seems to me that, at the moment at least, there are certainly different ways in which the operations of Parliament are being looked at and assessed. We are discussing one of those ways at the moment. I know that each honourable member has different problems. Those from different States might have the same problem. But each of us has to try to organise his parliamentary life around the sittings of the Parliament which obviously is the most important aspect of his job. 
I know that when Parliament is sitting on the three weeks on, one week off basis, it often becomes difficult to do the sorts of things one feels one ought to do in one's electorate during the limited time available. As honourable members know, with the sittings of committees often on the Mondays and /or on the Fridays of sitting weeks, it leaves only the one non-sitting week a month in which honourable members can do something constructive in their electorates. I know in my case that it often takes the best part of that week to catch up with paper work and with the people who want to see me in my office. That probably cuts down to only a couple of days the opportunities that an honourable member in an electorate like mine has to travel the distances necessary to visit the towns he has to visit. 
I am looking forward to the opportunity to try out this new procedure. I think in my case it will allow me adequate time to do in the two nonsitting weeks what it has not been possible to do in the one non-sitting week a month and that principally is to get on top of the administrative work, the paper work and other office work and spend a significant amount of time out in the electorate talking to constituents which, again, is a very important part of a parliamentarian 's job. 
I do not know how an assessment of whether the scheme has been successful will be made at the end of this trial period- whether a plebiscite will be taken to determine whether members prefer the new system to the old system- but 1 hope adequate consideration will be given to the views of all honourable members as to whether the experiment has been a success and ought to be continued. I think the general view of members of the National Country Party is that the experiment ought to proceed. We commend the Government for bringing it forward and we wish it success. 
-I direct a question to the Prime Minister. He will be aware that there has been a long series of union-inspired industrial disputes which have resulted in the disruption of rural exports. The latest in this long line of disputes has been that involving Australasian Meat Industry Employees Union pickets preventing live sheep exports from South Australia. What overall action can be taken by the Government to guarantee the right of exporters to export free of union interference? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Trade and Resources. What options are available to the Government to guarantee the rights of exporters to export? Can the trade and commerce powers given to the Commonwealth under section 5 l(i) of the Constitution be used as the authority for legislation to protect exports? Does the Government agree that the present situation of industrial disruption in relation to a wide range of rural exports particularly cannot be tolerated not only in the sectional exporting interest but more importantly in the overall national interest? 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-Is the Minister for Trade and Resources aware of reports indicating that the Premier of New South Wales has announced that the State Government would sponsor a meat trade delegation to Saudi Arabia later this month? In view of the efforts by the Commonwealth Government to expand meat exports, is the Minister taking steps to ensure that a coordinated program is being implemented and that State governments do not pursue independent programs which could prove counterproductive to the overall trade promotion effort? 
-by leave-I was also privileged to be a member of the Australian delegation to Sofia last September. The benefit to be gained from a visit behind the Iron Curtain to one of the Soviet satellites is immense. It gives the opportunity to compare and contrast at first hand the differences behind the two major economic systems- free enterprise and socialism. It provides an opportunity to observe the living standards prevailing in a communist country. It provides an opportunity to observe the functioning of the party hierarchical system which prevails in a Soviet satellite. I would like to say that the Bulgarians were excellent hosts and to the best of my knowledge life in Sofia carried on as normal during the meetings of the InterParliamentary Union. 
I do not want to go into detail in the House but I simply would say that I was as interested an observer of the Bulgarian system as those from communist countries who visit the West would be interested in our system. The IPU meeting was a valuable experience and I was particularly interested to watch the workings of the different bloc groupings in the votes following debates. On one occasion an unexpected amendment was moved in the debate on the Middle East and the delegates of the Third World countries all rushed up to the Egyptian delegation to get their voting instructions. I imagine that there are other honourable members in the chamber who have experienced world forums at first hand and who have observed the way the blocs line up. To me it was a new experience. Unlike other delegations, as has been said by the honourable member for Perth  (Mr McLean)  and the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins),  the Australian group spoke and voted as individuals on two important votes, one on the behaviour of the Israeli authorities in occupied Arab territory, and the other on the situation in southern Africa. The Australian delegation split its 1 3 votes. 
The overall situation was interesting. In the vote on the Middle East debate Israel was condemned 605 to 73 votes with 106 abstentions. The result was always predictable and the tragedy of the situation is that it seems debates on issues of this nature are superfluous because the power blocs have their preconceived attitudes. The Australian delegation allowed itself to be influenced by debate. For my own part, I listened with great interest to argument on both sides and I came down in favour of Israel. Others in our delegation came down against Israel. Similarly, in respect of the southern African situation the overall vote went in favour of the South West African People's Organisation 625 to 32 votes with 100 abstentions. Again the result was always predictable. 
The majority of nations are not persuaded by argument; they vote in line with their political or ideological bloc and they cannot afford to do otherwise. It may be of interest to the House to know that of the 68 nations which voted on the southern African situation only Australia, Canada, Denmark and the United States split their delegate votes between yes and no. Every other nation voted entirely yes or no or abstained in total. Only 13 countries exercised their right to split their delegate votes on the Israeli question. For my own part I contributed to the debate on the new international economic order, and in view of the attention given to this subject in the statement yesterday by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  I seek leave to incorporate my speech in  Hansard. 
-By way of explanation,  Mr Speaker,  I point out that it was a speech of about 10 minutes. 
I did not want to take up the time of the House by elaborating on points I made in that debate. I will not do that other than to say that the whole debate in Sofia on the question of the new international economic order is. like so many other questions, dominated by a Third World, Western World, East-West bloc situation. As the honourable member for Perth  (Mr McLean)  pointed out in relation to the Arab-Israeli situation, a great degree of hypocrisy is going on in the new international economic order debate. 
The new international economic order is described as a way of redistributing wealth between the 'haves' and the 'have nots', and a way of raising the standards of living in the underdeveloped countries. The simple fact is that when one listens to the nations which are involved with the Third World and those which are supposed to benefit from this new international economic order, if it ever arrives one finds that they have qualms about our capitalistic system, our free enterprise system. They stand up and make speeches in no uncertain terms, putting the boot right into the capitalists, the colonialists, the neo-colonialists, the transnational and multi-national companies and so on, yet it is to those people and companies that they turn for support. The thrust of my speech there was that one has to accept the systems which apply in different countries. They have to accept the system which we have and they should not seek to change it; we have to accept the systems that they have and we should not seek to change them. There is no merit in and there is no point to be gained by continuing a debate which is centred on all sorts of hypocritical arguments based on whether trans-national companies are doing underdeveloped countries any good. The interesting point is that countries like Russia and the German Democratic Republic support the Third World and the underdeveloped world in this sort of argument. 
Another point I wish to make in relation to the delegation's visit to Yugoslavia is that many matters were discussed. One of the most important of these dealt with trade. It is interesting to note that Yugoslavia is interested in trading with Australia. It certainly is interested in redressing the imbalance that exists between Yugoslavia and Australia in relation to our bilateral trade. Yugoslavia is very keen on joint ventures, particularly joint ventures which will involve Australian and Yugoslavian activity that is directed towards a third market. That is something which I think Australian manufacturers, traders and exporters ought to look at. Another point is that Yugoslavia made it plain to the delegation that it was interested in barter trade. This is something in which Australia is not really involved. It is interesting to note that New Zealand, for instance, is involved in this type of trade. When we spoke to Yugoslavian officials about the trade in beef, for instance, we were told that Yugoslavia imports beef from New Zealand. When we inquired further into that, we discovered that the New Zealanders purchased back from Yugoslavia an equivalent money value in tractors. So there is literally a dollar for dollar exchange- beef from New Zealand on the one side and tractors from Yugoslavia on the other side. That may be something at which Australia needs to look if it wishes to get more involved in developing trade throughout the world. If New Zealand is prepared to do it and is getting business as a result of that action, perhaps Australia should be more willing to examine it. 
I express my thanks to both  Senator Young  and the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  for the way in which they led the delegation. Complete and total harmony existed at all times and both gentlemen offered invaluable advice and assistance to the less experienced members of the delegation. I also place on record my gratitude for the untiring efforts of  Mr Alan  Cumming Thorn,  Clerk  Assistant of the Senate, who made sure that all went smoothly. I also thank  Dr Ron  Howard of the Department of Foreign Affairs, whose advice and assistance was always freely available and was first class in nature. 
We have just been subjected to the traditional socialistic tirade that flows from the mouths of members of the Opposition every time this Government does something which is progressive and constructive. This afternoon the honourable member for Batman  (Mr Howe)  spoke about this Government being interested in the propertied sections of the community and the entrenched sections of the community. He has not taken into account that this Government has brought about more taxation reform that any other government in the history of this nation. He has not taken into account the fact that in the last couple of years alone this Government has introduced a family allowance system and full indexation of taxation in Australia and that it brought about tax cuts as recently as last February. The pensioners have been taken care of by such means as the automatic consumer price index adjustment of pensions. This Government is collecting $2 billion less in revenue in a full financial year than it would have collected if those reforms had not been made. So how can the Opposition justify coming into this Parliament and talking about this Government legislating for the rich and for the propertied classes and doing nothing to assist those who are in the depressed or lower than average income sectors? This Government has done more for those people and has shown more concern for those people than any other government in the history of this country, particularly the government led by the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  between 1972 and 1975. 
The National Country Party of Australia, of which I am a member, enthusiastically and wholeheartedly supports this legislation. We have been working for it for some years. During the four years I have been a member of this Parliament it has been a particular concern of mine and is something for which I have worked tirelessly. I am very pleased to see that it is now a reality. These Bills are designed to bring about a situation in which no estate duty will be payable by the estate of a person dying on or after 21 November 1977 in respect of property passing to the surviving spouse or a child, grandchild, parent or grandparent of the deceased. No gift duty will be payable on property given on or after that date by a person to relatives within those classes. From 1 July 1979- less than 14 months away- all gift and estate duties will be abolished by this Government. The honourable member for Batman interestingly argued that if Australia had no death duties and did not impose any other form of capital tax, Australia would be in an exceptional position in terms of the capacity to pay argument. He said it would be the only advanced Western country levying no other direct tax apart from income tax. 
I think the other side of the argument ought to be considered. This country is leading the world in respect of taxation reform. It is showing the way to other countries as to how a responsible, responsive and concerned government can legislate in the area of taxation to bring about sensible reductions in the incidence of taxation. I believe that to be a most important thing. I think it is significant that Australia is the first of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development countries to eliminate this insidious form of taxation. It is about time it was done and I am very proud to be part of the Government that has done it. 
Estate duty was first  introduced in  Australia in 1914, interestingly enough one year before Commonwealth income tax was levied. Estate duty was introduced essentially for revenue purposes. Apart from income tax, estate duty is the only direct tax with a general coverage levied on persons in Australia. As levied by the Australian Government, estate duty is or has been a tax based on the total size of an estate irrespective of the size of individual bequests. Gift duty is levied on the donor of a gift at a rate fixed by reference to the accumulated total of gifts made within a three-year period spanning the gift. In the Australian context death and gift duties are levied by both the Australian Government and by the States. State duties generally are higher than federal duties and the form of the tax varies between them. 
In 1971-72 the combined collection of death, probate and gift duties in the six States was $144m which is equivalent to about 10 per cent of total State tax collections compared with $75m to $76m or about 1.6 per cent of total tax revenue collected by the Australian Government. It was estimated at that time by the Treasury that an increase in the rates of personal income tax of about  2y2  per cent would have been required to replace the present revenue from federal estate and gift duty. I think it important to reflect on the fact that this Government, unlike the suggestions being made by the honourable member for Batman and other Opposition speakers, is cutting its own cloth to fit the amount of revenue that is available to it. By depriving itself of revenue, which would otherwise have been available if certain reforms had not been introduced, this Government is reducing the amount of spending, the growth rate of the Public Service and the way in which governments provide and offer services to the Australian community. I think that is a healthy sign. I think it is a good policy. 
We have had a very sorry experience in recent years where governments have gone through a period in which the taxation take from the Australian people and the expenditure undertaken by government doubled in a couple of years. 
This Government is reducing the amount of revenue that would have been available to it had it not introduced extensive and far-reaching tax reforms. That is something for which this Government ought to be commended. This Government can proudly stand among the countries of the world for the initiatives it has taken in the areas of taxation, the reforms it has introduced and its willingness to reduce and curtail its spending in an effort to return to the people of Australia a greater share of the dollar they earn and to keep a minimal amount in the hands of government for its purposes. 
The honourable member for Batman also argued- I think I am right in saying this-that about only 12 per cent of deaths were assessed for estate duty in Australia in recent years. That may well be so. What I say is that the majority of people who came into that 12 per cent category were people who owned farms and small businesses. Those people were being severely disadvantaged and, in many cases financially crippled, by this iniquitous tax- this tax which will raise $80m from estates and $ 13m from gifts according to estimates of receipts in the 1977-78 financial year. I understand that the Australian rural community represents about 6 per cent of the population in terms of taxpayers. Rural people pay about 6 per cent of the total amount of tax collected. They also pay about 36 per cent of the death duties collected by the Taxation Office. That is something which is entirely out of kilter and I will come to that a little later. 
There is a relationship between estate duty and gift duty. Gift duty is designed to supplement estate duty by limiting the scope for the avoidance of tax through inter vivos transfers of wealth. The effectiveness of gift duty for that purpose depends on a consistency in both the form and the structure of the two forms of tax. Despite the application of the same rate schedule to gift duty and estate duty, present arrangements facilitate inter vivos transfers of wealth to avoid payments of estate duty at later dates. The role of gift duties must also be seen as one protecting income tax revenue and achieving equity in the treatment of recipients of wage and property income by reducing the purely tax incentives of inter vivos transfers of wealth. Gift duty must be seen as complementing the present Australian income tax as well as being the essential supplement to estate duty. These are the traditional sorts of arguments put up by the Treasury. I will come back to them a little later. They are the sorts of arguments that we, particularly members of the National Country Party who have been carrying on this fight for so long now, have been up against over the years. It is the sort of thing that we have had to contend with, that we have had to go out into our own electorates and communities and talk about and get increasing support for. Finally we were successful in bringing about a situation where the government of the day, under strong pressure, was prepared to accede to this request. 
I want to go through some of the Treasury arguments. I want to make clear for the record the sorts of arguments that the National Country Party was up against. For instance the Treasury has used the following argument: Estate duties are, however, important and basic in the tax system. They serve socio-economic objectives which may include the desire, first, to reduce inequalities in the distribution of wealth, or progressive growth in such inequalities, and possibly in the resulting distribution of income; and, secondly, to provide a reasonable approximation to equality of opportunity for all individuals. These arguments might have all sorts of merits but when one gets out into the country areas and has to face up to the harsh realities of seasons and to the fact that a family must sell half its farm and finish up with an uneconomic unit because of the incidence of death duties and estate duties. These sorts of arguments do not go down. The same applies in small business communities. People spend their lifetime building up a business, an asset or a farm and when the principal dies that business farm or unit becomes uneconomic because of the disbursements that have to go out to meet those duties. It is interesting to note that in the Treasury arguments which were presented in 1974 consideration was given to the situation in relation to farms. I would like to go into some of those arguments. The Treasury said: 
In discussions of the effects of estate duty, it is sometimes said that people who have been building up assets for years should not have their efforts undone by death duty, forcing the family to sell up the assets. This comment is heard most often, perhaps, in connection with farm properties; it is said that families may have devoted themselves for years to building up virtually only one asset which is land. Everything was sacrificed to retention of the homestead and the land around it, and when estate duty falls due it has to be sold and the family unit disturbed. 
I might have used a stronger word than 'disturbed'. It continues: 
Much of the pressure for abolition of death duties rests on this line of argument 
That is the sort of argument that the Treasury has been putting forward. The Treasury also said: 
The attitude to this argument must depend very much on the view taken on the reasons . . . which are put forward in favour of the view that income tax needs to be supplemented by some form of tax on wealth if proper regard is to be taken of capacity to pay and other aspects of tax equity. The attitude expressed in the preceding paragraph appears to rest on the belief that income tax is enough, and that anything left after it is paid should not be subject to further imposts. If, however, it is considered that income tax alone is not enough, much of the ground is cut from under the argument of the preceding paragraph. Ultimately the attitude must be justified or rejected according to whether or not income tax is enough. 
That is the argument that I have been putting and that other National Country Party members in general have been putting over the years which preceded this decision. We have not been able to convince Treasury or the government of the day that there was an alternative to this view; that there was another argument other than ultimately the attitude must be justified or rejected according to whether or not income tax is enough'. 
So much of this argument has been based on the capacity to pay, equity and so on. What people have failed to understand and what I believe the Treasury-type arguments have failed to understand over the years has been that the capacity to pay and the equity arguments, when taken in the rural context, are different now from what they might have been in the wool boom years or what they might have been earlier on in the century at different times. For the best part of the last 10 or 15 years, there has been significant depression right throughout the rural economy. There has not been that fat that might have been there in previous times. People have not had the capacity to pay. People have not been able to meet death duty liabilities without going to extraordinary costs in terms of life insurance and things of that nature, which obviously is at the cost of other consumption or other asset improvement. They have not been able to meet these death duty payments without recourse to the sale of properties. A great number of farming people have been to see me in my office in my electorate of Hume in recent years and- I know that my National Country Party colleagues found this as well- were literally distraught at the prospect of having to break up their family holdings which they have had for years and which they know will finish up being uneconomic once those sales have been made in order to raise the revenue. This indicates the hardship of the policy which has been applied in relation to this tax over the years. 
Another argument which has been put is this: 
It is sometimes asserted that the incidence of death duties falls far too heavily on the farming community. It has been said, for example, that the percentage of duty obtained from rural estates is far in excess of the percentage of national income derived from farming. 
I mentioned those arguments earlier: 
Close scrutiny, however, shows that there is no extraordinary significance in the relationship between these variables. Estate duty is a tax on assets, and primary producers obviously have a lot of assets relative to their income- more, for example, than wage and salary earners. Furthermore, some income is produced by public authorities and public enterprises, which, in the nature of things, never pay estate duty on their assets. Given the nature of the economic system and the production processes in various industries there  ought  to be a large difference between the figures being compared. 
We are faced with an industry wherein the average farmer is dead lucky if he can get a return of more than about 2 per cent on his asset. Certainly his asset is large; it has to be large. It has to grow larger year by year as the Bureau of Agricultural Economics points out in estimates the viability of farming units. This sort of problem is something which all the farming communities are up against. The BAE says that in my area, for instance, over the year or two at which we are looking, if a person does not get a property of around about 1,500 acres average size, it will not be economic. That is just not on. So a person has to keep increasing the size of his asset which in turn exacerbates the sort of problem which is contained in the traditional argument that has been put forward by Treasury over the years. 
As I said earlier, the National Country Party enthusiastically supports this legislation. We have been fighting tor this for years; we have spearheaded the argument. It has been part of our platform for generations. We are exceedingly pleased and proud that we have been able to bring this about. 
Before my time expires, I wish to make two other points. The first is that in New South Wales we have an incredible situation. The Wran Government is posturing about death duties in that State. It has said: 'We will magnanimously lift the exemption level on primary producers' estates to $350,000'. The headlines in the newspapers were to the effect that this was fantastic. People in the bush justifiably initially said: This is good. This Wran Government probably is not such a bad thing after all '. Then we saw the small print. That small print said that the $350,000 estate is exempt only if it goes directly to a beneficiary who is dependent upon that asset. So, take the situation of a person whose income is such that his children have to leave the farm and earn income somewhere else. When that person dies he cannot pass that estate on to his children free of duty because they are not dependent on that estate. We have put the State of New South Wales and the other States that have not yet legislated in this area on their mettle. We have put our cards on the table: No gift duties and estate duties on estates passing between families as from 21 November 1977 and no gift duties or estate duties on estates passing between anybody at all as from 1 July 1979. It is up to the States to follow suit and to bring about justice in the situation. 
The Opposition wants to reject these Bills and introduce some sort of wealth tax. I reject that proposition and the Government rejects it. We want a situation in Australia where people can work, where they can build up an asset and live in the knowledge that that asset can be passed on to their children. There is the incentive there to build up that asset. If there were to be wealth taxes and death duty taxes, where would be the incentive? Why should people spend their working lives building up an asset when on their death it is handed over to the Government? 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I appreciate the courtesy extended to me by the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  and by honourable members generally. I want to amplify briefly the effect that the wages explosion between 1974 and the present has had on the education problem. Everybody is aware of the significant amount of funding that goes into education budgets, both Commonwealth and State and, as well, from the pockets of private school parents who must pay a great deal towards the cost of education. One of the most significant features of the whole education process is the amount that has to be devoted to wages and salaries of teachers and others involved in our institutions and schools. 
It might be of interest to the House to know that in December 1977 a professor on the academic staff of an Australian university was in receipt of a wage of $31,248, as compared with $19,614 as at June 1974. Within a period of  Vh  years there had been an increase of 59.3 per cent in the cost of providing a professor at an Australian university. Similarly, for an associate professor in June 1974 the wage was $16,389. By December 1977 it had risen to $26,365, or an increase of 60.9 per cent. A senior lecturer was receiving in June 1974 $14,724. By December 1977 his salary had increased to $23,299, an increase of 58.2 per cent. I shall not go right through the list, but I think I have given an indication of the sorts of increases that have been taking place. 
It might be of interest to note that in New South Wales high school principals, who in June 1974 were receiving $14,632, were by December 1977 receiving $22,597, an increase of 54.4 per cent. 
That is the New South Wales figure. The increase for that period was 54.4 per cent. The honourable member for Calare  (Mr MacKenzie)  and I have an intense interest in education and in applying the Commonwealth's contribution to education as sensibly as possible. It is obviously of great concern to us as it is to all honourable members and to the community to know the amount of funds going into the salaries vote as pan of the whole education process. I have to spend a couple of minutes of the time of the House this afternoon emphasising some of those figures and putting the argument into perspective so that people will be aware of the significance of the wages content of the total education vote. 
-Supply Bill (No. 1) seeks to appropriate $6,751,000 for the Parliament, of which $1,494,000 covers supply for the House of Representatives. I am a member of the House of Representatives and I had no idea what was going on in relation to supply or, for that matter, in relation to any appropriation or supply Bills in the four years I have been a member. In this case, I learned what the financing arrangements for the House of Representatives were on 10 May. Any day now the Government will begin the final round of negotiations leading up to the 1978-79 Budget which will be delivered in August. As in previous years I will find out on the evening of the second Tuesday in August how much has been appropriated for the purposes of the Parliament and for my own chamber the House of Representatives. 
I do not say this in any sense that may be critical of the Fraser Government. This situation has been going on for years. I do not know how far has back it started. I do not blame the Government or any government. I blame the Parliament itself. In the beginning, all power lay with the Parliament. The Parliament elected an Executive. Progressively and steadily over a period of seventy-seven years it has handed over more and more of its authority to that executive, to the bureaucracy, or to statutory authorities and corporations so that the Parliament has effectively divested itself of power. The Parliament has allowed this to happen not so much because of confrontation between the Parliament and the Executive but rather because of adherence to the Party system within the Parliament. Under the Party system it is virtually impossible for private members to prevail over the Party leadershipthe Executive- no matter which Party is in power. The only sanction the Party Room or the Caucus has is to bring its own Government down on the floor of the Parliament. Members would agree that the issue would need to be a serious one for the Government back bench to bring down its own Government. 
So the process has been a gradual one resulting in the transfer of power away from the Parliament and into the hands of the Executive. Obviously, such a process is in the interests of the Executive. No executive would want the Parliament to be more powerful than necessary. Some executives would want the Parliament to be as weak as possible. The history of the first seventyseven years of the Federal Parliament in Australia is quite dismal from a parliamentary point of view. I cannot help feeling that if the process of gradual attrition is not arrested and reversed, the people of Australia will rightly question the usefulness of parliamentarians. If the attrition continues there will be less and less justification for the Parliament. Following each election the majority Party elects its leadership and following the accepted processes, the Ministry is sworn in. From that time, for the duration of the Parliament, the power is exercised by the Ministry. Although the back bench participates in the process to a greater or lesser degree depending on the particular issue, this is done outside the Parliamentary chamber and once legislation comes into the Parliament, the Party line invariably holds firm. Given a majority in both Houses, a reasonable government has nothing to fear. 
The most important power which nominally belongs to the Parliament is the one which is perhaps the least exercisable. The Parliament has no role in the formulation of the Budget. It is presented with a fait accompli which it accepts or rejects. Rejection is not a real option unless the governing Party wishes to switch to the Opposition benches. The Budget formulation process is a long one starting with first bids in April and culminating in the presentation of the Budget in August. At no stage is the Parliament involved. The Budget debate itself has traditionally been a catch-all debate in which honourable members may speak on any subject. It is rare for members to use the Budget debate as a vehicle to defend the rights of the Parliament. 
I personally object strongly to the way in which the estimates for the Parliament itself are handled. I believe the estimates ought to be brought into the Parliament for debate and nonparty amendment during the Autumn session, and whatever is decided upon in that debate should be sent to the Government by the  Speaker  as a part of the Budget not to be the subject of alteration during the Budget Cabinet processes. This building itself, the facilities available or not available to honourable members, the committees of the Parliament and their staffing, the Library and the service it provides, and so many other matters are all of vital importance to members of the Parliament, and yet we make no contribution to the process. I believe the Parliament needs to take a stand in an effort to regain some of the power that has been whittled away over the years. I do not want the Parliament to become an executive chamber, but I believe it ought to be allowed to exercise its scrutiny function in a meaningful fashion and to make a contribution to Government. 
The Parliament should not be simply a tool of the Executive. It should be able to question the use of executive power and seek justification for decisions made by the Government, or the bureaucracy inside or outside the Parliament. John Stewart Mill said: 'The proper office of Parliament is to watch and control the Parliament, to throw the light of publicity on its acts, to compel a full exposition and justification of all of them, which anyone considers questionable, to censure them if found to merit condemnation.' It is difficult for a Parliament to properly carry out such functions if the Executive and the bureaucracy effectively control our funding and particularly the funding of our committee structure. 
There is always difficulty in obtaining the appropriate secretariat staffing for the committees of the Parliament. My experience has been that committees labour on with inadequate staffing and without expert advice which must limit the range, if not the depth, of inquiries that committees can undertake. Occasionally, as with the Joint Committee of Public Accounts, a committee will have a win every so often, but only after a long and drawn out struggle with the parliamentary bureaucracy and sometimes responsible Ministers or office holders. This simply is not good enough. Committees must be able to draw on the staffing needs they consider appropriate. I believe the only way this can be handled is for the Parliament to give consideration to its own estimates. 
Take the matter of Parliament House itself. There is not an honourable member in the place who does not recognise the inadequacy of this building, which was built as a temporary home for the Parliament in 1927. We have actually got as far as passing an Act to settle on a site for the new building. As I recall, that vote was on nonparty lines. I applaud that in itself. The Joint Committee on the New and Permanent Parliament House has recommended that the new building be proceeded with so that it can be opened as part of the bicentennial celebrations in 1988. That is now 10 years away, and I suggest that if we do not actively make a start in the forthcoming Budget there will be no possibility of opening a new house of parliament in 1988. Parliament itself has not been consulted. The report of the Committee, to the best of my knowledge, has not been debated. Nor have we had the opportunity to provide input into the process in the Budget context. This can be rectified only by the Parliament considering its own estimates. 
Parliament House should not be solely the province of the Executive. It belongs to all of us and to the nation. Decisions that affect the future should not be solely in the hands of the Executive. This Parliament must be involved; otherwise we allow the Executive to commit us to a future in the totally inadequate conditions in which we have to work 15 hours a day, 26 or 30 weeks of the year. Decisions that affect this building will be taken in the Executive's own good time. Parliament needs to make a stand. I do not want a confrontation with any Executive over an issue of this nature- Liberal-National Country Party or Labor. I hope that we are all big enough, mature enough and equipped with enough common sense to find a way through the total dominance of the Parliament by the Executive. 
This domination extends into the sitting pattern of the Parliament as well as the financial controls that are exercised. Despite the long hours and weeks the Parliament sits there is virtually no time made available to private members. We have a half hour adjournment debate each night and an hour or so each Thursday for grievances or private members' Bills which are rarely dealt with satisfactorily. I am concerned that very few reports to the Parliament are debated in the House. That in itself is a serious matter, but what is of more concern to me is that committees of this Parliament are continually bringing reports into the House which once tabled are invariably forgotten. Exceptions to this are the recent reports of the Expenditure Committee which, although not debated, were responded to in the Parliament by the Ministry. I think it is essential that reports, particularly committee reports, are debated, even if it is on a Friday when the Parliament would not normally sit. It would have to be, by arrangement, free of quorums and divisions. The Parliament cannot reasonably expect members to work on committees and not have their findings or recommendations debated. If the only solution is for the Parliament to sit more frequently than it does, so be it. That is why we are elected. 
I emphasise again that I am most concerned by the way in which the business of the Executive dominates the time of the Parliament. I understand that the House of Commons and the Canadian Parliament allocate about 30 days a year to their Oppositions to nominate the subject of debate. I wonder how we would react to such a heretical suggestion. I appeal to all honourable members on both sides of the House and to the Ministry to give serious thought to the future of the Parliament as a constitutional institution. Perhaps we could make a worthwhile start by considering our own estimates and not being financially controlled by the bureaucracy and the Executive. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
-Like the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  I welcome this opportunity to engage in some economic debate in this Parliament. The processes through which the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  and the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Dawkins)  have been are not convincing. I think it is interesting that today, of all days, the Australia and New Zealand Monthly Business Indicators Book arrived on my desk. I will just quote from the first sentence. The ANZ Bank says:  . . . the significant reduction occurring in domestic inflation, together with the favourable outlook for interest rates and the improved tone in Australia's balance of payments  for March and April, should provide the foundations for a stronger economy in 1978-79. 
I think that this is something which in itself is significant and which from the outset gives the lie to what the Opposition is trying to say about this Government's achievements in the area of economic policy. Although the honourable member for Fremantle whinged about the fact that this Government comes back to the performance of the Labor Party when in office, it is still true to say that this economy is suffering the scars of those three years when his party held the reins and ran the economy of Australia. What happened in that period was of such shattering significance that the Australian economy has not yet fully recovered from it. And despite the whinges of the Opposition that we are trying to hide behind what happened in that period and that we have had two years to bring things back into some sort of line, the fact of the matter is that we have significantly improved the economy over the last couple of years despite the significant shambles that was left behind by the former Administration. 
It is interesting for honourable members and for the Australian public at large to consider again some of the things the Labor Party did. Wages completely outstripped prices and productivity, and at one stage during the Labor Party's period in office the share of wages jumped to around 70 per cent from what had been the traditional level of about 60 per cent in the late 1960s and early 1970s. Wages in 1974 got completely out of hand, with effects not only on consumers but also on employers. Those effects are still very much a part of the problems with which this Government has to deal. In addition, as a result of the Labor Party's administration there was a significant decline in consumer confidence, and the Labor Government has to take the blame for the problem- still very much a part of the economic environment in which we live- that the savings ratio, which traditionally had been below 10 per cent, went to about 1 9 per cent. Although it is coming down as a result of the confidence that has been put back into the economy by our Government, it is still something with which we have to grapple. 
People do not change overnight the views they hold about their experiences in recent years. They want to see, quite justifiably, real and lasting improvements as a result of our policy. The public sector exploded completely in the years of the Whitlam Government. The Budget deficit increased significantly, even though there were no taxation adjustments such as the ones that are being made by this Government. In terms of the deficit, it is important to recognise that this Government is financing its deficit, something the former Government did not do. The M3 in 1972-73 expanded by about 26 per cent in one financial year and was followed by substantial increases in the later years of the Whitlam period of administration. Inflation went close to 20 per cent, and interest rates followed inflation and also went to extraordinarily high levels. The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development has pointed out that our inflationunemployment exepriences over that period were due more to the domestic wage explosion than to factors such as the import price rise for oil and other raw materials which were important factors in other countries. 
This Government has been concerned to grapple with the problems the economy had to face as a result of the years of the Whitlam Administration. A government does not walk into an economy and overnight reverse the sorts of results that these people took three years to bring about. The Government has improved the situation quite considerably. It has brought inflation down below double digit figures and it is now in line with the sort of inflation rates being experienced in overseas countries. We have problems of a continuing nature in the unemployment field, and I will come back to that if time permits. Deliberate policy objectives have been followed by this Government. Its fiscal policy has been directed towards reversing and halting the explosion in the public sector and deliberately allowing scope for the transfer of resources back to the private sector. In monetary policy there has been a deliberate attempt to restore stability to the growth in the monetary aggregates. On the wages front, since the day we came into office we have been arguing before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission for real reductions in wage payments. In its external policy in relation to exchange rates and overseas borrowings the Government has been trying deliberately to bolster up the domestic policy it has been following. 
It is abundantly clear that unless our economic fundamentals are put right economic prosperity cannot be a reality in Australia. I indicated before that inflation is down significantly. The savings ratio, which I have also mentioned, is moving back into line with the traditional figures, and obviously that brings with it an increase in consumer spending that is a very important factor in demand. We have seen significant increases in private investment, and there is no doubt that confidence is returning in that sector. The monetary expansion has been moderate, and there have been reductions in interest rates and inflation as well as government expenditure as a result of the policies of this Government. 
It is important to look at the question of unemployment. It is just not good enough for the Opposition to argue that we have brought about a deliberate increase in the number of unemployed in the economy. It is a totally false charge that the Government has used unemployment as a weapon to fight inflation. Increasing recognition is coming from all sides that there is no prospect of solving the unemployment problem in isolation from the inflation problem. That is something which all serious and concerned economic commentators have spoken of and accept. It is only by restoring confidence in the economy as a whole that we have any prospect of bringing about significant reductions in the number of unemployed. Until people who employ labour have a situation where they can employ people economically there is no prospect of the unemployment situation improving. We need to get profitability back into the private sector. We need to get a real reduction in the rate of wages paid, otherwise there is no prospect of bringing about an improvement. A lasting reduction in the rate of unemployment we are now experiencing can result only from a combination of policies which on a general level produce economic recovery and improve the climate for job seekers. Unless we get that sort of situation we are not in the hunt. This Government is seeking to bring about those circumstances so that there will be a real prospect of job expansion in Australia. 
It is also relevant to put into perspective the sort of unemployment problem we are facing. The Australian Bureau of Statistics figures show that between November 1973 and November 1975 unemployment in Australia rose by 160 per cent from 105,000 to 275,000. In the period between November 1975 and November 1977, a period of two years, there was an increase of only 14 per cent or about 40,000 in the unemployment figures. This Government has slowed down the inbuilt factors involved in the breakdown in the Australian economy over the three year period that the present Opposition was in government. I want to quote briefly from the OECD survey published in April. Under the heading ' Conclusions ' it is stated: 
Nearly f6ur years after the initial downturn in activity, the Australian economy is still undergoing a process of slow cyclical recovery and gradual adjustment of some of the major imbalances which developed in recent years. As explained, even though policies have been  faily  tight, real output has grown at an average rate of about 3 per cent in the three years since the trough. During the same period, the rate of inflation, which has been the main focus of policy attention, has been approximately halved and is now running at a rate of around 8 or 9 per cent. This is an important achievement, and has brought Australia nearly into line with the OECD average. 
I think we have to say that the overall tone and tenor of the OECD report is not uncomplimentary to this Government's achievement in the area of economic recovery. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drummond) 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Discussion concluded. 
-I wish to say a few words on the clause relating to the option this legislation gives to health funds to exclude benefits for abortions from their benefit .tables. This option is certainly a step in the right direction. People who have a strong moral objection to contributing towards abortion benefits through a fund will be able to join a fund which does not pay those benefits. However, my concern about the matter goes further. One believes that abortion is either morally right or morally wrong. I believe that it is morally wrong. In my opinion, abortion is murder, nothing less. I have to make my position on the matter clear. It is that I will seek an early opportunity to bring the abortion issue to a vote in this House. 
I realise that this Bill is not the vehicle for an abortion debate. I also realise that we as a Federal Parliament cannot legislate against abortions as such except in the Australian Capital Territory. Such legislation is a matter for the respective State Parliaments. What the Federal Parliament can do is to ensure that no taxpayers' funds, at least those collected federally, are applied to payment or part payment for abortions. I imagine that there may be problems with private health funds, which are funded 100 per cent by their contributors, in making it illegal for them to pay benefits for abortions from contributors' funds. The option now available is probably as far as we can go with the private funds. But there is certainly no problem in relation to abortion benefits paid by Medibank as far as this Parliament is concerned. After all, Medibank is the vehicle by which public funds pay for abortions. 
Another reason for the necessity for a debate on abortion is the availability of the report of the Royal Commission on Human Relationships. That report puts a figure of 60,000 on the number of abortions carried out in Australia each year. That figure implies that millions of dollars are being paid each year by Medibank and the private funds for abortions. The benefits for an abortion and its associated anaesthetics are in excess of $100, or in excess of $6m per annum in total. A significant proportion of that $6m is paid by taxpayers through Medibank for abortions. I am concerned about this situation and I believe that this Parliament ought to debate it, at least in respect of the use of taxpayers' funds through Medibank. I do not wish to open up the whole abortion debate at this time but I make it clear that I believe the Parliament ought to go a great deal further in the area of antiabortion legislation. As a first step, it should ensure that no public funding of abortions is permitted. I will be seeking an opportunity to raise the question in the House during the Budget session. 
asked the Minister for Construction, upon notice, on 29 May 1978: 
1 ) What is the name of each statutory authority, corporation or undertaking for which he has responsibility. 
Are any funds appropriated in the budget to any of these authorities, corporations or undertakings; if so, (a) what sum was appropriated to each during (i) 1975-76, (ii) 1976-77 and (iii) 1977-78 and (b) was the appropriation on one line or broken up into divisions. 
Who audits each of the authorities, corporations or undertakings. 
Under which Act of Parliament was each authority corporation or undertaking established, and in what year. 
) When was the most recent review or inquiry into each authority, corporation or undertaking carried out and the report made available to the Parliament and by whom was the inquiry or review carried out. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 29 May 1978: 
1 ) What is the name of each statutory authority, corporation or undertaking for which he has responsibility. 
Are any funds appropriated in the budget to any of these authorities, corporations or undertakings: if so. (a) what sum was appropriated to each during (i) 1975-76, (ii) 1976-77 and (iii) 1977-78 and (b) was the appropriation on one line or broken up into divisions. 
Who audits each of the authorities, corporations or undertakings. 
Under which Act of Parliament was each authority, corporation or undertaking established, and in what year. 
When was the most recent review or inquiry into each authority, corporation or undertaking carried out and the report made available to the Parliament and by whom was the inquiry or review carried out. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 29 May 1978: 
) What is the name of each statutory authority corporation or undertaking for which the Minister has responsibility. 
Are any funds appropriated in the budget to any of these authorities, corporations or undertakings; if so, (a) what sum was appropriated to each during (i) 1975-76, (ii) 1976-77 and (iii) 1977-78 and (b) was the appropriation on one line or broken up into divisions. 
Who audits each of the authorities, corporations or undertakings. 
Under which Act of Parliament was each authority, corporation or undertaking established, and in what year. 
When was the most recent review or inquiry into each authority, corporation or undertaking carried out and the report made available to the Parliament and by whom was the inquiry or review carried out. 
asked the Minister for Finance upon notice, on 29 May 1978: 
1 ) What is the name of each statutory authority, corporation or undertaking for which he has responsibility. 
Are any funds appropriated in the Budget to any of these authorities, corporations or undertakings; if so, (a) what sum was appropriated to each during (i) 1975-76, (ii) 1976-77 and (iii) 1977-78 and (b) was the appropriation on one line or broken up into divisions. 
Who audits each of the authorities, corporations or undertakings. 
Under which Act of Parliament was each authority, corporation or undertaking established, and in what year. 
5 ) When was the most recent review or inquiry into each authority, corporation or undertaking carried out and the report made available to the Parliament and by whom was the inquiry or review carried out. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 29 May 1 978: 
1 ) What is the name of each statutory authority, corporation or undertaking for which he has responsibility. 
Are any funds appropriated in the budget to any of these authorities, corporations or undertakings; if so (a) what sum was appropriated to each during (i) 1975-76, (ii) 1976-77 and (iii) 1977-78 and (b) was the appropriation on one line or broken up into divisions. 
Who audits each of the authorities, corporations or undertakings. 
Under which Act of Parliament was each authority, corporation or undertaking established, and in what year. 
When was the most recent review or inquiry into each authority, corporation or undertaking carried out and the report made available to the Parliament and by whom was the inquiry or review carried out. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 29 May 1978: 
What is the name of each statutory authority, corporation or undertaking for which he has responsibility. 
Are any funds appropriated in the budget to any of these authorities, corporations or undertakings; if so (a) what sum was appropriated to each during (i) 1975-76, (ii) 1976-77 and (iii) 1977-78 and (b) was the appropriation on one line or broken up into divisions. 
Who audits each of the authorities, corporations or undertakings. 
Under which Act of Parliament was each authority, corporation or undertaking established, and in what year. 
When was the last recent review or inquiry into each authority, corporation or undertaking carried out and the report made available to the Parliament and by whom was the inquiry or review carried out. 
asked the Minister representing Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 29 May 1978: 
1 ) What is the name of each statutory authority, corporation or undertaking for which the Minister has responibility. 
Are any funds appropriated in the budget to any of these authorities, corporations or undertakings; if so, (a) what sum was appropriated to each during (i) 1975-76, (ii) 1976-77 and (iii) 1977-78 and (b) was the appropriation on one line or broken up into divisions. 
Who audits each of the authorities, corporations or undertakings. 
Under which Act of Parliament was each authority, corporation or undertaking established, and in what year. 
When was the most recent review or inquiry into each authority, corporation or undertaking carried out and the report made available to the Parliament and by whom was the inquiry or review carried out. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 29 May 1978: 
1 ) What is the name of each statutory authority, corporation or undertaking for which the Minister has responsibility. 
Are any funds appropriated in the budget to any of these authorities, corporations or undertakings; if so, (a) what sum was appropriated to each during (i) 1975-76, (ii) 1976-77 and (iii) 1977-78, and (b) was the appropriation on one line or broken up into divisions. 
Who audits each of the authorities, corporations or undertakings. 
Under which Act of Parliament was each authority, corporation or undertaking established, and in what year. 
When was the most recent review or inquiry into each authority, corporation or undertaking carried out and the report made available to the Parliament and by whom was the inquiry or review carried out. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 29 May 1978: 
What is the name of each statutory authority, corporation or undertaking for which he has responsibility. 
Are any funds appropriated in the budget to any of these authorities, corporations or undertakings; if so, (a) what sum was appropriated to each during (i) 1975-76; (ii) 1976-77 and (iii) 1977-78 and (b) was the appropriation on one line or broken up into divisions. 
Who audits each of the authorities, corporations or undertakings. 
Under which Act of Parliament was each authority, corporation or undertaking established, and in what year. 
When was the most recent review or inquiry into each authority, corporation or undertaking carried out and the report made available to the Parliament and by whom was the inquiry or review carried out. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 29 May 1978: 
1 ) What is the name of each statutory authority, corporation or undertaking for which he has responsibility. 
Are any funds appropriated in the budget to any of these authorities, corporations or undertakings; if so, (a) what sum was appropriated to each during (i) 1975-76, (ii) 1 976-77 and (iii) 1 977-78 and (b) was the appropriation on one line or broken up into divisions. 
Who audits each of the authorities, corporations or undertakings. 
Under which Act of Parliament was each authority, corporation or undertaking established, and in what year. 
When was the most recent review of inquiry into each authority, corporation or undertaking carried out and the report made available to the Parliament and by whom was the inquiry or review carried out. 
asked the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice, on 29 May 1978: 
1 ) What is the name of each statutory authority, corporation or undertaking for which he has responsibility. 
Are any funds appropriated in the budget to any of these authorities, corporations or undertakings; if so, (a) what sum was appropriated to each during (i) 1975-76, (ii) 1976-77 and (iii) 1977-78 and (b) was the appropriation on one line or broken up into divisions. 
Who audits each of the authorities, corporations or undertakings. 
Under which Act of Parliament was each authority, corporation or undertaking established, and in what year. 
When was the most recent review or inquiry into each authority, corporation or undertaking carried out and the report made available to the Parliament and by whom was the inquiry or review carried out. 
asked the Minister for Special 
Trade Representations, upon notice, on 29  May  1978: 
What is the name of each statutory authority, corporation or undertaking for which he has responsibility. 
Are any funds appropriated in the budget to any of these authorities, corporations or undertakings;' if so (a) what sum was appropriated to each during (i) 1975-76, (ii) 1976-77 and (iii) 1977-78 and (b) was the appropriation on one line or broken up into divisions. 
Who audits each of the authorities, corporations or undertakings. 
Under which Act of Parliament was each authority, corporation or undertaking established, and in what year. 
When was the most recent review or inquiry into each authority, corporation or undertaking carried out and the report made available to the Parliament and by whom was the inquiry or review carried out. 
asked the Minister for Veterans' 
Affairs, upon notice, on 29 May 1978: 
1 ) What is the name of each statutory authority, corporation or undertaking for which he has responsibility. 
Are any funds appropriated in the budget to any of these authorities, corporations or undertakings; if so, (a) what sum was appropriated to each during (i) 1975-76, (ii) 1976-77 and (iii) 1977-78 and (b) was the appropriation on one line or broken up into divisions. 
Who audits each of the authorities, corporations or undertakings. 
Under which Act of Parliament was each authority, corporation or undertaking established, and in what year. 
When was the most recent review or inquiry into each authority, corporation or undertaking carried out and the report made available to the Parliament and by whom was the inquiry or review carried out. 
asked the Minister for Home Affairs, upon notice, on 29 May 1978: 
1 ) What is the name of each statutory authority, corporation or undertaking for which he has responsibility. 
Are any funds appropriated in the budget to any of these authorities, corporations or undertakings; if so, (a) what sum was appropriated to each during (i) 1975-76, (ii) 1976-77 and (iii) 1977-78 and (b) was the appropriation on one line or broken up into divisions. 
Who audits each of the authorities, corporations or undertakings. 
Under which Act of Parliament was each authority, corporation or undertaking established, and in what year. 
When was the most recent review or inquiry into each authority, corporation or undertaking carried out and the report made available to the Parliament and by whom was the inquiry or review carried out. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 29 May 1 978: 
What is the name of each statutory authority, corporation or undertaking for which he has responsibility. 
Are any funds appropriated in the budget to any of these authorities, corporations or undertakings; if so, (a) what sum was appropriated to each during (i) 1975-76, (ii) 1976-77 and (iii) 1977-78 and (b) was the appropriation on one line or broken up into divisions. 
Who audits each of the authorities, corporations or undertakings. 
Under which Act of Parliament was each authority, corporation or undertaking established, and in what year. 
When was the most recent review or inquiry into each authority, corporation or undertaking carried out and the report made available to the Parliament and by whom was the inquiry or review carried out. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 29 May 1978 : 
1 ) What is the name of each statutory authority, corporation or undertaking for which he has responsibility. 
Are any funds appropriated in the budget to any of these authorities, corporations or undertakings; if so, (a) what sum was appropriated to each during (i) 1975-76, (ii) 1976-77 and (iii) 1977-78 and (b) was the appropriation on one line or broken up into divisions. 
Who audits each of the authorities, corporations or undertakings. 
Under which Act of Parliament was each authority, corporation or undertaking established, and in what year. 
) When was the most recent review or inquiry into each authority, corporation or undertaking carried out and the report made available to the Parliament and by whom was the inquiry or review carried out. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 29 May 1978: 
What is the name of each statutory authority, corporation or undertaking for which he, as distinct from other Ministers, has responsibility. 
Are any funds appropriated in the budget to any of these authorities, corporations or undertakings; if so, (a) what sum was appropriated to each during (i) 1975-76, (ii) 1976-77 and (iii) 1977-78 and (b) was the appropriation on one line or broken up into divisions. 
Who audits each of the authorities, corporations or undertakings. 
Under which Act of Parliament was each authority, corporation or undertaking established, and in what year. 
When was the most recent review or inquiry into each authority, corporation or undertaking carried out and the report made available to the Parliament and by whom was the inquiry or review carried out. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science the following question, upon notice, on 29 May 1978: 
What is the name of each statutory authority, corporation or undertaking for which the Minister has responsibility. 
Are any funds appropriated in the budget to any of  these authorities, corporations, or undertakings; if so, (a) what sum was appropriated to each during (i) 1975-76 (ii) 1976-77 and (iii) 1977-78 and (b) was the appropriation on one line or broken up into divisions. 
Who audits each of the authorities, corporations or undertakings. 
Under which Act of Parliament was each authority, corporation or undertaking established, and in what year. 
When was the most recent review or inquiry into each authority, corporation or undertaking carried out and the report made available to the Parliament and by whom was the inquiry or review carried out. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 29 May 1978: 
1 ) What is the name of each statutory authority, corporation or undertaking for which he has responsibility. 
Are any funds appropriated in the budget to any of these authorities, corporations or undertakings; if so, (a) what sum was appropriated to each during (i) 1975-76, (ii) 1976-77 and (iii) 1977-78 and (b) was the appropriation on one line or broken up into divisions. 
Who audits each of the authorities, corporations or undertakings. 
Under which Act of Parliament was each authority, corporation or undertaking established, and in what year. 
When was the most recent review or inquiry into each authority, corporation or undertaking carried out and the report made available to the Parliament and by whom was the inquiry or review carried out. 
asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice, on 30 May 1978: 
1 ) What is the name of each statutory authority, corporation or undertaking for which he has responsibility. 
Are any funds appropriated in the budget to any of these authorities, corporations or undertakings; if so, (a) what sum was appropriated to each during (i) 1975-76, (ii) 1976-77 and (iii) 1977-78 and (b) was the appropriation on one line or broken up into divisions. 
Who audits each of the authorities, corporations or undertakings. 
Under which Act of Parliament was each authority, corporation or undertaking established, and in what year. 
5 ) When was the most recent review or inquiry into each authority, corporation or undertaking carried out and the report made available to the Parliament and by whom was the inquiry or review carried out. 
asked the Minister for Productivity, upon notice, on 29 May 1978: 
1 ) What is the name of each statutory authority, corporation or undertaking for which he has responsibility. 
Are any funds appropriated in the Budget to any of these authorities, corporations or undertakings; if so, (a) what sum was appropriated to each during (i) 1975-76 (ii) 1976-77 and (iii) 1977-78 and (b) was the appropriation on one line or broken up into divisions. 
Who audits each of the authorities, corporations or undertakings, 
Under which Act of Parliament was each authority, corporation or undertaking established, and in what year. 
When was the most recent review or inquiry into each authority, corporation or undertaking carried out and the report made available to the Parliament and by whom was the inquiry or review carried out. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 29 May 1978: 
What is the name of each statutory authority, corporation or undertaking for which he has responsibility. 
Are any funds appropriated in the Budget to any of these authorities, corporations or undertakings: if so, (a) what sum was appropriated to each during (i) 1975-76, (ii) 1976-77 and (iii) 1977-78 and (b) was the appropriation on one line or broken up into divisions. 
Who audits each of the authorities, corporations or undertakings. 
Under which Act of Parliament was each authority, corporation or undertaking established, and in what year. 
When was the most recent review or inquiry into each authority, corporation or undertaking carried out and the report made available to the Parliament and by whom was the inquiry or review carried out. 
-I wish to devote the time available to me this evening to speak of something which is of particular concern in a section of my electorate. It relates to the flooding of the Mumimbidgee River which at this point of time is likely to happen again. The situation with the Mumimbidgee River is that above Gundagai there are two major sources of water which feed the river system. One is water from the Blowering Dam, which is part of the Snowy system, and the other is the Burrinjuck Dam which is on the Mumimbidgee River. 
What concerns me is the fact that there has been a significant number of floods in this river system, that there are management procedures which appear to be available to those who manage the releases of water and which are not being taken advantage of and that we have a situation which is developing far too often for my liking and certainly for those who are affected by the river system whereby floods are occurring far too regularly. 
It may not be known to the House that since 193 1 there have been 52 floods on the Mumimbidgee River at Gundagai. Of those 52 floods four occurred in 1950, five occurred in 1952, nine occurred in 1956, then there was a significant gap until 1974 when there were five floods and then in 1975 there were four. So 27 major floods out of the total of 52 floods have occurred in five of the last 47 years. So when they come, they really come. This is a matter of concern to residents of the Mumimbidgee Valley, particularly to those below Burrinjuck and more so perhaps to those below the junction of the Mumimbidgee and the Tumut, which is where the flows from the Blowering Dam come into the system. Gundagai, of course, has been flooded far too often, as I have said, in recent years, and Wagga is in a similar situation. 
The effects are felt further down the river in Hay, Narrandera, Balranald and other towns. But the critical areas are Gundagai and Wagga. I have been in Gundagai when the flood waters have been within 50 yards of the main street, in areas where normally one would not expect flood waters. Rescue boats have been carrying people backwards and forwards and performing the tasks that the civil defence people perform so ably in these times of emergency. Only yesterday I had an opportunity to go to Wagga. As I drove into the town, I passed between the levy banks. If those levy banks had not been erected it would not have been possible for traffic to pass along the main road from Junee to Wagga, and for that matter from Wagga out to Junee, Coolamon and other areas. Although the recent rain in the river catchment area has not yet caused a major flood in these towns, it certainly has led to a significant rise in the river level. Even in that non-serious flood situation it has been necessary to erect levy banks. 
I think it is worth informing those honourable members who may not be aware of the situation that the agitation of residents has been sufficient to cause a degree of action to be taken by the Water Resources Commission in New South Wales. The Water Resources Commission engaged consultants by the name of Sinclair Knight and Partners Pty Ltd to prepare a study on the Mumimbidgee River and the flood problems that exist there. The Commission itself undertook a study into the flood problems of the Mumimbidgee system and took into account matters relating to the management of the Burrinjuck Dam. The problem is simply this: The Burrinjuck Dam and the Blowering Dam are both regarded as water conservation dams. They are not flood mitigation dams. Both dams were constructed for the benefit of people who live in the irrigation areas, particularly the Mumimbidgee Irrigation Area, further down the Mumimbidgee River, who need water, particularly in the summer, for the cultivation of crops and for other activities of a pastoral nature. 
The Blowering Dam is closely integrated with the Snowy River hydro-electric scheme. The water that flows into Blowering Dam comes through the hydro-electric power generating plants. It is a very interesting situation. The water that flows into the Blowering Dam belongs to the Commonwealth, if I can put it that way, until such time as it passes through the power station. Then it becomes State water and comes under State management. The State decides what should be done with the water, how the releases should be handled and how to meet the demands that are made by people further down the river in the MIA. 
My constituents are concerned to see that a degree of reason is attached to the management of both these dams and that the Water Resources Commission of New South Wales, which has the responsiblity for managing the way in which water is released from the dams, takes into account the fact that there can be a reduction in the incidence of flooding in the Mumimbidgee River system if the water releases from the Burrinjuck Dam, and perhaps from the Blowering Dam as well, are handled more effectively. That basically is what I want to speak about in the Parliament tonight and to draw to the attention of the Government. 
It has been suggested that the water level in Burrinjuck Dam should be kept 30 per cent below its capacity so that some additional storage is available. Thus, when significant rain falls in the catchment area of the Burrinjuck Dam there will not be an immediate effect further down the river such as would be felt if the dam were full. It is a matter of record that in each of the floods that have occurred since 1968 when the Blowering Dam was completed the Blowering and Burrinjuck Dams have not spilled over on the same occasions. However, it seems to me that it is only a matter of time before that happens. When that does happen, it seems to me to be obvious that Wagga, if not Gundagai, will be seriously flooded. If we look at the way in which the New South Wales Government has reacted to these problems when representations have been made to it, when delegations have been down to see Ministers, when petitions have been presented and when resolutions have been passed by concerned citizens of the area that is affected by these floods, it is obvious that Wagga, 
Gundagai, or some other significant population conglomerate on the river system will need to be wiped out before the New South Wales Government will be prepared to do something realistic about the problem that we are facing. The problem needs to be faced. 
One of the propositions which has been put forward and which affects the Commonwealth Government is that Tantangara Dam, which is also on this Snowy-Murrumbidgee rivers system, should be used in conjunction with Burrinjuck Dam to see that there is an effective management system available for Burrinjuck Dam. My constituents have put to the Federal Government, at meetings which I have attended, the proposition that Burrinjuck Dam should be maintained at a maximum capacity of two-thirds full, one-third empty, and that should there be a water shortage as a result of seasonal factors, or because there has been a low thaw from the snowfields, Tantangara Dam could be used to top up Burrinjuck Dam which in turn could be used to provide the water for people who require it in the Mumimbidgee Irrigation Area and other irrigation areas. 
The argument has been put by people in authority in the Snowy Mountains Council and the Department of National Development, as it now is, that this water is urgently required or is important to the overall policy for the management of the hydro-electricity generation system. They say that they cannot put that water at risk for use in Burrinjuck Dam and for the water users in the MIA further down the River because that would jeopardise the capacity that is available for people who need electricity supply. That may be a valid argument. Once the water leaves Tantangara Dam and flows down into Burrinjuck Dam it is not retrievable for the purpose of the Snowy Mountains Council. That is another matter. 
What needs to be understood is that there have been 52 floods at Gundagai since 1931. I want to give some figures in relation to those 52 floods which I think the House may be interested to hear. Of the 52 floods, there were 19 which would have been absolutely unavoidable in any circumstances even if Burrinjuck Dam had been empty. It would have filled and there would have been a flood in any event. But on 20 occasions the flood level could have been reduced to below danger height if there had been 30 per cent storage space available in Burrinjuck Dam. The danger height at Gundagai happens to be 6.1 metres. A further four floods could have been reduced to below the critical height which at Gundagai is 7.2 metres. This is still above the danger height of 6.1 metres. Nine floods could have been reduced in severity but would still have been above the critical height of 7.2 metres. 
I think it is important for honourable members to understand that of those 52 floods that have taken place at Gundagai since 1931, 20 could have been effectively eliminated and a further four significantly reduced if there had been 30 per cent storage space available in Burrinjuck Dam. It is fair comment to say that about half the flooding that occurred in the river system, and particularly at Gundagai which is the area that concerns me because it is in my electorate, was unnecessary. What was needed was for the New South Wales Government, through its Water Resources Commission, to say, 'O.K., keep the water level in that dam 30 per cent below the top and thus reduce the problem '. 
Obviously, there is an effect on the people who live further down the river and who require the water for irrigation. Their needs must be taken into account also. The findings of the reports which I mentioned point to the fact that there have been shortages already in 15 irrigation seasons over this period about which I am speaking. Not very much could have been done about that anyway. If there had been a 30 per cent storage space available in Burrinjuck Dam, in four of those 15 seasons the shortage of water would have been aggravated. There would have been a greater problem. In two additional seasons, there would have been water availability problems. 
So we have a situation in which there have been 15 irrigation seasons in which there have been shortages and if we had kept that 30 per cent off the top in Burrinjuck Dam we would have aggravated the situation- it would have been marginally worse in four of those 1 5 yearsand we would have extended the 15 years to 17 years because of the policy being operated. It seems to me that somebody needs to look long and hard at the trade-off between these two situations. We are looking at a situation in which, in historical circumstances, we would have created two additional seasons of water shortage problems in the Mumimbidgee Irrigation Area and for those other people who depend on water in the irrigation areas but we would have reduced by half the number of floods which occurred in the Mumimbidgee River system and which caused incredible amounts of damage right down the Mumimbidgee River system but particularly in that area between Gundagai and the Burrinjuck Dam itself, and of course between Gundagai and Wagga and further down again. 
I simply say to this Government and to the Government of New South Wales: Let us have some common sense about this particular problem. Let us not just say in the sort of uncompromising fashion that has been put to us over the years that the Burrinjuck Dam or the Blowering Dam was built and established for water purposes and is not to be used as a mitigation dam. Let us say that the relevant legislation can be amended, if that is what is required, and sensible management can be applied to both of these dams to see that a reasonable balance is taken between those v/ho need the water in the MIA and the other irrigation areas and those who live on the Mumimbidgee River system so that they will not be flooded out with the monotonous regularity that has been the case over the years. I believe that if governments take a sensible approach to this matter the problem can be solved. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 29 May 1978: 
1 ) What is the name of each statutory authority, corporation or undertaking for which he has responsibility. 
Are any funds appropriated in the budget to any of these authorities, corporations or undertakings; if so, (a) what sum was appropriated to each during (i) 1975-76, (ii) 1976-77 and (iii) 1977-78 and (b) was the appropriation on one line or broken up into divisions. 
Who audits each of the authorities, corporations or undertakings. 
Under which Act of Parliament was each authority, corporation or undertaking established, and in what year. 
When was the most recent review or inquiry into each authority, corporation or undertaking carried out and the report made available to the Parliament and by whom was the inquiry or review carried out. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Primary Industry. The Minister will recall union strike action earlier this year which severely disrupted live sheep exports to Middle East markets and damaged Australia's reputation abroad as a reliable supplier. Has a similar position now been reached in wharf disputes which have prevented the loading of wheat in Sydney for Middle East ports and of meat destined for Korea? Have these disputes led to suggestions that prospective purchasers of Australian agricultural produce will look elsewhere for supplies in future? What action can the Government take to ensure that, through irresponsible strikes, Australian primary producers do not lose valuable export markets so diligently developed in the past? 
I can understand that with the number of honourable members that the Opposition Whip has to control in this Parliament, he needs to bring the Deity into account in his arguments to gain support on his side. Tonight I want to talk about a subject that I have spoken about on previous occasions. I refer to the rights and the powers of the Parliament and exactly where this Parliament stands in relation to the Executive. Many words have been written in various digests, articles and learned journals in this country about the status of Parliament in which honourable members serve. The general consensus seems to be that the Australian Parliament is playing itself down. It is allowing its power to be taken away from it in one form or another. If its powers are not being taken away by the Executive, they are being taken away by the bureaucracy. The end result is that the Parliament is becoming a fairly hollow chamber. What business is carried out in this chamber is not necessarily of all that great weight or importance so far as the actual business of government in this country is concerned. 
This is something about which we all ought to think as parliamentarians. It is something that we need to take into account at every opportunity that is available to us. We ought to be able to determine to a far greater extent the sort of things that go on in this place. We should see that what is done is done in such a way that the Parliament becomes a meaningful chamber and a chamber where the things that transpire are important in terms of the nation. We should see that the debate that takes place here is real debate where people can be convinced by argument, that not necessarily everything goes the way that the Government of the day, of whatever political complexion it might be, wishes it to go. I noted that a former colleague of ours who is now a senator,  Senator Hamer  from Victoria, spoke in the Senate recently on this subject. One of the points he made was that perhaps it would be a good idea to have no Ministers sitting in the Senate. It would seem to me that that is a very well thought out argument and one which ought to be considered by governments in this country. 
We should take seriously the points made by  Mr Hamer  and give consideration to them. I do not think that any government of this nation, whether it be a government made up of the members of the party that I represent or of members opposite, would want a situation in which legislation was being forced through the Parliament simply because it had a majority in both Houses and was able to control both Houses. There would be representatives of the Executive in both Houses of Parliament, but no government would want the party line to operate as strictly and as firmly as it seems to have operated in the past. I do not advocate a system of continual rebellion and crossing the floor when votes are taken as a matter of course in the Parliament, but I think that we would be better served if we had a genuine House of review which could be seen as such by the public and the media by means of the way in which the debates and the business of the government of this country are conveyed to the electorate at large through the various ways in which the media gets the message through. These matters are important and ought to be given serious consideration by both Houses of Parliament and by the Government itself. 
It seems to me that good government would be much better served if the Senate were genuinely a House of review and if it could revert to being a States' House as it was originally intended to be. That is a matter to which thought needs to be given. The arguments that have been put forward by  Senator Hamer  and by other people over the years ought to be considered and debated. 
There is a matter that I find a little offensive in relation to our chamber. When the pre-Budget discussions are taking place, the Government calls on representatives of the Australian Council of Trade Unions to discuss what the Budget strategy might be. It calls on representatives of business- employers, employees- primary industry groups, social service groups and a range of organisations. The Cabinet hears suggestions from them as to what they think the structure of the Budget should be. Generally speaking, the results of those discussions are made public. In the run-up to the last Budget we were informed in no uncertain terms that the business community of this country wanted drastic cuts made in social security payments, health and welfare. The ACTU wanted certain things and so on. I have no recollection of being consulted as a member of Parliament about the Parliament itself. Yet the estimates for the Parliament are prepared and are passed through this place. We are discussing right now the money that will be spent on this chamber, the facilities available to members, the question of staffing and the structure of committees. My colleague, the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  referred to this matter in his speech to the Committee only a short time ago. 
We are not consulted about this sort of thing. I think that it is something about which we ought to be consulted. I think that it can be seen as an affront to the Parliament as an institution that the Government does not see fit to raise with the Par.liament those matters which are of concern to it and to its administration. I think that that is a matter which ought to be remedied. It is something of which all governments in the past, as long as I have known anything about the Parliament, have been guilty. It is about time that this Government had a look at the position. Hopefully it will be prepared to do something about the matter. 
I would like to canvass the general question of the Estimates debate itself. It seems to me that when the Budget is presented it is not subject to alteration. It is debated and we then move into this Estimates debate procedure which we are starting tonight with the debate of the estimates of the Parliament. In my view we should be having an Estimates debate in the Autumn Session of the Parliament prior to the Budget being presented. The Government would make available the forward estimates in the best form that they are available at that time. Just about everybody knows at that stage anyway the likely deficit that the Government is facing. The Government does not need to reveal at that time what its income projections might be for the corning year. We would be dealing with an unrelated set of figures on just the expenditure side. They could be presented in the departmental form that we are accustomed to seeing them in and they could be debated. The members of this Parliament, who are elected by the people, could make their contribution to that debate. They could make the points to the Government which need to be made in respect of what things they, as members of Parliament representing the grass roots feeling outside the Parliament, see as being important in the system of priorities which the Government has to try to rationalise within the structure of forming and presenting a Budget. The Parliament could make a very useful contribution in this way. 
This is not to say that the Government would be bound by what the Parliament decided to do or by what any member or Minister for that matter might say in that Estimates debate that took place in the Budget preparation context. It is simply something that the Government could take into account. For instance, if a large majority of honourable members took the view that more money needed to be spent on defence or that less money needed to be spent on defence, the Cabinet would be able to take that into account and would be able to say: 'The Parliament takes this view about the matter and we as a Cabinet are prepared to implement in broad terms the sort of thing about which the Parliament is concerned'. The Parliament itself could make a very real contribution to the establishment of the priorities which the Government needs to determine when it is looking at the Budget in that run-up period to July and August and finally when the Budget is brought down. I think that a worthwhile, useful and realistic part could be played by the Parliament if the Estimates debate were moved forward from now, when we are discussing the Estimates ex post facto, to a time when it could be part of the business of the House prior to the House rising at the end of the autumn session. 
There are a number of procedural things of this nature about which parliamentarians have a duty to think. I do not think it is a question of standing up a government, of toughening it out, of exercising back bench muscle or anything like that at all. It is a question of looking at things reasonably and asking whether an effective purpose really is served by having the Estimates debate in the way we do now, or whether it would be better if the debate were held prior to the Budget coming down so that all members could make some contribution to the determination of priorities. It is essential that the Parliament itself be consulted about the estimates for the Parliament. As I have said on previous occasions, the 
Parliament ought to determine what its estimates will be and they should go to the Government, which should not be able to change them. As I said earlier, we ought to give a fair amount of consideration to the question of the Executive being in the Parliament and whether we ought to make the Senate a House free of the Ministry so that it can legitimately be a House of review. 
I am very pleased to take part in this debate on the estimates in relation to the Department of the Treasury and the Department of Finance particularly at a time when the policies of the Government are bringing this nation back to the pre-eminent economic position that it had held in the past and which it ought to have held unbroken over the years when this Government was in Opposition and the Labor Party was occupying the treasury benches. I do not think that there is any dispute of any magnitude within or outside this chamber with the statement that the Government is bringing this country back into a period of economic sanity and that the Government's policies are working. The situation that applies at the moment, of course, is that this Budget is largely directed at continuing the fight against inflation and bringing down interest rates in Australia. Inflation obviously is of vital importance to all Australians no matter what sector of the community they are a part of, no matter what occupation people follow, whether they are in business, whether they work, whether they own homes or whatever. The simple situation is that interest is a cost and regardless of what activity one is involved in that interest is a cost to one's activity. Inflation and interest rates together add up to a significant burden on people in Australia regardless of the course of activity in which they are involved. 
What this Government is doing in applying a very firm hand on the economy in bringing down the inflation rate is helping everybody in the community. Everybody in the community will benefit from the fact that inflation is coming down. Everybody will benefit from the fact that interest rates are coming down. That is the basic thrust behind the economic policy of this Government; and it is succeeding. We are seeking realistic cuts in inflation and it is now coming down almost faster than it was going up in the days when we used to sit back waiting in horrified expectation and anticipation of what the Labor Treasurer would announce the quarterly consumer price increase to be. That is something for which we ought to be grateful and thankful. Interest rates too are falling, and again that is something for which everybody in Australia ought to be thankful. The Government is winding back the whole process that had been going on in this economy for three years under the Labor Administration. 
Opposition supporters consistently argue that the price of the economic success that this Government is achieving is too high. I think that is something which needs to be considered and perhaps put at rest. The situation of course is quite straightforward. There are many causes of the unemployment which Opposition supporters blame on the economic policies of this Government. The basic cause of unemployment is the wages explosion that occurred particularly during the 1974 period when Labor, of course, encouraged the wage fixing procedures to lift wage rates in this economy, and lift them it did. To a large extent the work force has priced itself out of the market. In addition to that, there have been deliberate moves on the part of those people who employ other people to create a situation in their own business in which they use as little labour as they can and obviously in the interests of the survival of the business that is all that employers can do. There are factors related to technology and the development of technology which also add to the situation as it affects the employment market. All these elements need to be taken into account. 
It is not good enough for Opposition supporters to stand up and say that the entire cause of unemployment in this country is the fact that the Fraser-Anthony Government is following particular economic policies. It just does not wash. What is important to understand is that most of the problems arose during the period Labor was in office. They were brought about the activities of the trade union movement itself- the Australian Council of Trade Unions. The problems were brought about by the deliberate policies of the Labor Government and this Government is attempting to rectify those problems. The process of rectification will be followed by a boost in economic activity in this country. It will also be followed by an increasing tendency for people to be looking for labour, putting more people on and reducing the level of unemployment that exists in Australia. 
As my colleague the honourable member for Mallee says- and it is eminently true- farm incomes are rising. Over recent years the decline in rural incomes has been such that virtually every farm that employed anybody has reduced its work force. When the situation improves, when the farmers get back on their feet, when there is operating again in this economy a situation in which farmers can develop the stability that they need to be able to operate with a degree of confidence, they of course will also be looking for labour. The rural sector employed a large number of people. Obviously the number of people employed in this sector has been reduced significantly over the period of difficulty particularly from the early 1 970s to this year. But the rural economy can be looked to to assist greatly in the anticipated reduction in the number of unemployed when that rural sector is properly back on its feet, when it is investing again and when it is doing all of those things which it has put off over the years since 1971 and up to this year. There are so many aspects of the economy which are encouraging and the rural sector is only one of those which really give us cause for optimism and confidence as to the development of the whole industrial base of Australia, whether it be primary, secondary or tertiary. 
The honourable member for Calare reminds me about the situation as it pertains to roads. It is a very important factor too in terms of the unemployment position because when Labor was in government there was a very significant reduction in the amount of funds that were applied, particularly to rural local roads and rural arterial roads. As a result, local councils had no alternative - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)Order!  I remind the honourable member for Hume that we are in the Committee stage dealing with the estimates for the Department of the Treasury, the Department of Finance and the Advance to the Minister for Finance. I have allowed the honourable member some latitude, but I think that in keeping with the Committee stage procedures, he should return to that area. I hope he finds that helpful. 
-Thank you,  Mr Deputy Chairman.  I will take your advice. I appreciate your comment. I was really only just digressing a little on the economic policy which of course is influenced by Treasury and its advice to government. The estimates that we are discussing at the moment pay those public servants who provide the advice which leads to so much of what happens in terms of economic policy in Australia. 
The short point really is that Australia is well and truly back on the road to economic recovery, and this Government is determined to see that that course continues. The whole thrust of the strategy behind the Budget is to see that inflation is continued to be borne down upon, that the consumer price index continues t" record falls rather than rises, that the interest rate structure in Australia continues to become a lower one and that we regain the competitiveness with the people overseas with whom we trade and the countries overseas with which we trade. Australia will then be able to project itself as a country which is worthy of foreign investment, a country in which people are prepared to place their money in the knowledge that there is stable government and good economic management. That really is the thrust of the Budget strategy. The Treasury plays a vital role in that, as, of course, does the Department of Finance and in discussing the estimates for these departments, it is important that we take these things into account.  Mr Deputy Chairman,  I understand that the chamber has other business before it so I conclude my remarks at this time. 
Progress reported. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 29 May 1978: 
1 ) What is the name of each statutory authority, corporation or undertaking for which he has responsibility. 
Are any funds appropriated in the Budget to any of these authorities, corporations or undertakings; if so, (a) what sum was appropriated to each during (i) 1975-76, (ii) 1976-77 and (iii) 1977-78 and (b) was the appropriation on one line or broken up into divisions. 
Who audits each of the authorities, corporations or undertakings. 
Under which Act of Parliament was each authority, corporation or undertaking established, and in what year. . 
) When was the most recent review or inquiry into each authority, corporation or undertaking carried out and the report made available to the Parliament and by whom was the inquiry or review carried out. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 29 May 1978: 
1 ) What is the name of each statutory authority, corporation or undertaking for which he has responsibility. 
Are any funds appropriated in the budget to any of these authorities, corporations or undertakings; if so, (a) what sum was appropriated to each during (i) 1975-76, (ii) 1976-77 and (iii) 1977-78 and (b) was the appropriation on one line or broken up into divisions. 
Who audits each of the authorities, corporations or undertakings. 
Under which Act of Parliament was each authority, corporation or undertaking established, and in what year. 
When was the most recent review or inquiry into each authority, corporation or undertaking carried out and the report made available to the Parliament and by whom was the inquiry or review carried out. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Trade and Resources, concerns the counter-cyclical beef import legislation passed last week by the United States Congress. Has the Minister seen reports suggesting that Australia should engage in a trade war with the United States if this legislation is signed by President Carter? How would Australia emerge from such a skirmish? 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 29 May 1978: 
1 ) What is the name of each statutory authority, corporation or undertaking for which he has responsibility. 
Are any funds appropriated in the budget to any of these authorities, corporations or undertakings; if so, (a) what sum was appropriated to each during (i) 1975-76, (ii) 1976-77 and (iii)1977-78 and (b) was the appropriation on one line or broken up into divisions. 
Who audits each of the authorities, corporations or undertakings. 
Under which Act of Parliament was each authority, corporation or undertaking established, and in what year. 
When was the most recent review or inquiry into each authority, corporation or undertaking carried out and the report made available to the Parliament and by whom was the inquiry or review carried out. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 29 May 1978: 
1 ) What is the name of each statutory authority, corporation or undertaking for which he has responsibility. 
Are any funds appropriated in the budget to any of these authorities, corporations or undertakings; if so, (a) what sum was appropriated to each during (i) 197S-76, (ii) 1976-77 and (iii) 1977-78 and (b) was the appropriation on one line or broken up into divisions. 
Who audits each of the authorities, corporations or undertakings. 
Under which Act of Parliament was each authority, corporation or undertaking established, and in what year. 
When was the most recent review or inquiry into each authority, corporation or undertaking carried out and the report made available to the Parliament and by whom was the inquiry or review carried out. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 29 May 1978: 
1 ) What is the name of each statutory authority, corporation or undertaking for which he has responsibility. 
Are any funds appropriated in the budget to any of these authorities, corporations or undertakings; if so (a) what sum was appropriated to each during (i) 1975-76, (ii) 1976-77 and (iii) 1977-78 and (b) was the appropriation on one line or broken up into divisions. 
Who audits each of the authorities, corporations or undertakings. 
Under which Act of Parliament was each authority, corporation or undertaking established, and in what year. 
When was the most recent review or inquiry into each authority, corporation or undertaking carried out and the report made available to the Parliament and by whom was the inquiry or review carried out. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Will the Minister take the opportunity provided by the announcement by Telecom Australia of a record profit to use whatever influence he may have with Telecom to bring forward the restructuring of the Telecom charging and zoning system to the earliest possible time? 
-Like the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon)  who preceded me in this debate, I will not be taking up a great deal of time of the House in this debate. As a result of other commitments I find myself not as prepared as I would have liked to have been to contribute to this debate, but I am pleased to see that the Audit Amendment Bill 1978 will be referred to the Legislation Committee of which I am a member. I look forward to taking up matters at that time rather than in the House. The purposes of this Bill basically relate to the form of the statement which is generally known as the Niemeyer statement, which is presented by the Minister for Finance, and formerly the Treasurer, on a monthly basis to the Parliament and to the people of Australia, the processes in relation to ex gratia payments by the Commonwealth, the provisions for recovery of losses attributable to negligence by public servants and, of course, the establishment of the efficiency audit system. It is my understanding that my friend and colleague, the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Stewart),  has dealt in great detail with the question of the efficiency audit procedure. This is obviously a matter which has been given serious consideration by the Public Accounts Committee and by the Expenditure Committee, both committees of this Parliament, as well as by private members and former senators of this Parliament. 
The items which I wish to touch on tonight relate basically to the ex gratia payments situation. I have to admit that what the Government is doing gives me some cause for concern. When I read the explanatory memorandum in relation to acts of grace I found that the proposed new section spells out more clearly than the present section the Minister's power to approve act of grace payments and is worded in such a way that the 
Minister is permitted to delegate the power. Provision is made for a committee of senior officers, including the Secretary to the Department of Finance, the Comptroller-General of Customs and the Secretary of the Department of Administrative Services, or their deputies, to advise the Minister on substantial acts of grace requests. It is my understanding that the definition of 'substantial' is amounts of over $25,000. The practice which we have been told will be followed in the case of act of grace payments is that there will be a report to the Parliament which simply outlines the numbers and the amounts paid by each department under act of grace approval and, in the case of waiver of debts, the number of approvals given and the amounts involved. Although considerable consideration had been given to this matter by parliamentary committees, individual members and party committees and there has been correspondence with the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson)  and others, the situation is still not to be regarded as totally satisfactory. I, for one, retain some concern about it. The Parliament is not going to be in a position to know any of the details in relation to acts of grace payments. All we will know is that a certain number are paid out by each department and that they amount to a certain amount of money. The Public Service itself is not really in a position to be able to inform committees of the total amount of money that is involved because it is spread across a wide range of departments and is not accumulated or consolidated for the benefit of the Parliament. 
Two of the reasons given for not naming individual people are that it might be embarrassing to those people and that it might have been the Commonwealth's fault that some action was taken which led to an act of grace payment having to be made. For instance, if the Department of Social Security rules a person ineligible to receive a pension and on subsequent examination it is found that that person was entitled to receive that pension, that there was a period of six or 12 months during which he had not received the pension to which he was entitled and that there was no legal basis for it to be paid, an act of grace payment of the amount of money involved might be made to take account of the amount of money to which the individual should have been entitled but which due to departmental problems he was not able to receive. That is obviously the sort of situation which does not relate to any fault on the part of the individual. If there was any fault at all, it was in the Public Service department. For that reason, it is argued that that person should not be named in a report coming before the Parliament and the people of Australia as having been the recipient of an act of grace payment. I can understand that. 
Similarly, I imagine that the Public Service has reservations about admitting that these sons of things happen. I think at one stage it was suggested that the public servant who was involved in making the error ought to be named and that if that proposition found favour with the Government fewer public servants might make such mistakes. But I do not suggest for a moment that we are going to get rid of those mistakes altogether and I do not pursue that matter. I think that provision needs to be made for some control by the Parliament over the act of grace payment situation. It is quite conceivable that my colleague, the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly),  has made reference to this previously. If he has, I apologise, I did not hear his contribution. The proposition which has been mentioned, which I support and to which I hope the Government may give further consideration, is that a full list of the act of grace payments which are made during the course of a year be made available through the Auditor-General to a committee of the Parliament. I agree that the Joint Committee of Public Accounts is probably the most appropriate committee to which that list could be made available. I think that it can be left to the discretion and responsibility of that Committee to give consideration to the act of grace payments list as provided, to seek information in those circumstances in which it feels information ought to be sought and, if necessary, in certain circumstances to make a report to the Parliament. I think that that information can be provided to the Public Accounts Committee, if that be the appropriate committee, on a confidential basis, that the relevant inquiry should be undertaken in camera and that only if it is felt to be absolutely necessary in the interests of public information should the Parliament and, therefore, the people of Australia, be informed that an act of grace payment, which the Parliament through its committee feels was an unnecessary one, has in fact been made and that perhaps some consideration ought to be given to that. 
I will move off the question of act of grace payments. I deal for a moment or two with the question of the recovery of losses which are attributable to negligence on the part of an employee of the Government. What concerns me about this is simply the question of definition. The way in which this provision will operate is that where cash is held by a person who holds an advance in a departmental or governmental situation or where stores are held on a personal liability basis, the person who holds the cash or the stores should be liable for any loss or damage unless he can show that he is not at fault. The onus of proof is on him. I do not think that anybody really wants to argue about that. But in all other cases there should be a liability on the public servant or employee only if gross negligence or misconduct can be demonstrated. In these cases the onus of proof has to be on the Commonwealth. That to me is a problem. I do not believe that we have been offered in the amending Bill a definition of gross negligence. I understand from people who deal with lawyers and who have some knowledge of this business that gross negligence is almost impossible to define. It has to be noted that the onus of proof rests with the Commonwealth and not with the employee. It seems to me that we are going to achieve a situation in which no prosecutions will be made in a loss or damage to Commonwealth property situation simply because it will become totally impossible to demonstrate that that has occurred. It concerns me that the Government has been prepared to put to this Parliament a proposition which effectively removes from the ambit of the Governor-General or the Auditor-General the power to prosecute people who have behaved in a way in which they should not have behaved and who have caused damage to the property which ultimately belongs to the Australian people, the taxpayers, and which is administered on their behalf by the government of the day. That ought to be a situation which worries us all. The situation that applied before was such that because of the restrictive nature of the legislation and because of difficulties in administering it, it became in practice virtually impossible to prosecute public servants for acts of negligence concerning Commonwealth property. 
The solution to that situation that is being offered to us, in effect, is: Let us forget about it all together; let us put in the legislation some terminology which will be confusing and indefinable and which will be such that nobody really can ever be brought before anybody to answer for negligence in these matters. We ought to be giving some more thought to this aspect. I hope that the legislation committees, which will meet in the week after the parliamentary recess, consideration will be given to the fact that there ought to be a realistic way of having a come back at public servants who behave in a negligent fashion without the severe restrictions which are being put before us in the present legislation. Not only is the language terribly restrictive by using the words 'gross negligence' but also the Commonwealth has to prove the case. It seems to me that the situation is not good enough at all. 
This Bill concerns itself with a range of other matters. As I indicated, I do not want to become involved with the question of efficiency audits at this stage other than to say that I think it is a very proper and timely move on the part of the Government to pass to the Auditor-General the responsibility of conducting these efficiency audits. I believe there needs to be further consideration of the proposal- perhaps that will happen during the Committee stage- to see that it is handled properly; to make sure that the parliamentary relationship with those efficiency audits is effective and that we do not find ourselves in the situation that we often find ourselves in with respect to those reviews of administrations conducted under the Public Service Act. Sometimes the reviews are so confidential and the circulation of them is so restricted that the Parliament does not know that they are going on, let alone that something may have been recommended in relation to them. I think we must take into account the points that the honourable member for Grayndler made. If I recall correctly, the gist of much of what he was saying was that there needs to be a pretty careful examination of the role of the Auditor-General. We have to ask ourselves whether the Auditor-General is carrying out the role in which we have traditionally cast him. 
From the point of view of the Parliament, the Auditor-General occupies a very special position in the Public Service structure in that he reports directly to the Parliament and not to the Executive. He ought to be, and he ought to be seen to be, independent of the Executive. I do not want to see anything happen through the amendments proposed by this Bill- in particular in relation to the introduction of efficiency audits and the way in which they are to be handled by the AuditorGeneral whereby the Auditor-General will lose any of that independence from the Public Service as we traditionally know. He should not become any more distant from or unrelated to the Parliament in that traditional relationship as we have come to know it. 
The Auditor-General has an important relationship with this Parliament. As honourable members know, he reports directly to  Mr Speaker  on behalf of this chamber. He ought to be guaranteed an independence and a maintenance of an independence vis-a-vis the Executive, the structure of the Public Service and the bureaucracy as it relates to the Executive. I think that that is something we need to make sure is guaranteed. In the introduction of the new arrangements concerning efficiency audits we must make absolutely sure that the Auditor-General remains a servant of the Parliament as he is in Westminster and not become an agent or a servant of the Executive. I believe that that will be considered further in the interests of the proper relationship that exists in the whole set-up. 
One of the other changes proposed by the Bill relates to the financial responsibilities of permanent heads. That is a matter about which the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration had something to say. It was keen to see that the position of permanent heads should be clarified. The Government has looked at that matter and amendments are proposed in the Bill. Section 60 of the Audit Act will be amended to provide for departmental transactions being brought together into a set of accounts which will become part of the statement of receipts and expenditure for which the Minister for Finance carries responsibility. Perhaps one of the more interesting points about this amendment is that all receipts and expenditure of a department are to appear in one section of the statement. The amendment will require permanent heads to provide the Minister with notes of explanation to those accounts. Probably that is a proper move. Certainly there is room to improve the relationship and the definition or role of permanent heads. This Bill seeks to do that. 
Other matters contained in the Bill are such that they do not give me a great deal of cause for concern. I reiterate that the things I am concerned about really relate to these ex gratia payments and to the question of gross negligence as I have outlined it in relation to the loss of or damage to Commonwealth property which is attributable to public servants. I appreciate the fact that the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon)  expressed a great deal of concern about the form of the Neimeyer statement or its replacement. I do not want to give the impression that I am not concerned about that. I compliment my colleague, the honourable member for Grayndler, on his contribution to the debate in relation to efficiency audits. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 29 May 1978: 
1 ) What is the name of each statutory authority, corporation or undertaking for which the Attorney-General has responsibility. 
Are any funds appropriated in the Budget to any of these authorities, corporations or undertakings; if so, (a) what sum was appropriated to each during (i) 197S-76, (ii) 1976-77 and (iii) 1977-78 and (b) was the appropriation on one line or broken up into divisions. 
Who audits each of the authorities, corporations or undertakings. 
Under which Act of Parliament was each authority, corporation or undertaking established, and in what year. 
When was the most recent review or inquiry into each authority, corporation or undertaking carried out and the report made available to the Parliament and by whom was the inquiry or review carried out. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. Further to the Minister's most successful visit last month to Washington to argue the case of Australian beef producers with the United States Administration in relation to the Poage Bill, which was passed by Congress to restrict beef imports, will the Minister advise the House of the current situation in this matter now that President Carter has vetoed the Bill, in line with the Minister's own strong and obviously effective representations? 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 2 June 1978: 
1 ) Which overseas markets for Australian rural products are currently the subject of trade union bans or limitations. 
Which Australian rural exports or potential exports are currently the subject of trade union bans or limitations. 
-Can the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs tell the House what percentage of job vacancies in the economy are listed with the Commonwealth Employment Service? Would it be helpful if more businesses and employers listed their vacancies with the CES? Would this enable more unemployed people to be work tested and placed in employment? 
-I move: 
That this House requests the Government to introduce legislation which will provide that- 
1 ) medical benefits shall not be provided by the Commonwealth for the termination of pregnancy unless the termination was performed to protect the life of the mother from a physical pathological condition and that the life could be protected in no other way, and 
where medical expenses are incurred in respect of a medical service specified in the Medical Benefits Schedule which could include the termination of pregnancy, the doctor who performed the service shall be required to certify to the Department of Health that- 
the operation was not performed to terminate a pregnancy, but was for a stated, other purpose, or 
if the operation was performed to terminate a pregnancy, it was carried out in order to protect the life of the. mother from a specified physical pathological condition and that the life could be protected in no other way. 
I bring this motion forward as a means of gaining an expression of opinion from this House as to whether it supports continued use of public funds for the payment of medical benefits for elective abortions. I do not bring the motion forward as a political or sectarian issue but in the hope that this House will debate a matter which is of concern to many members of the House and of the public in a rational and unemotional fashion. I ring the motion forward because of the difference that has developed between views expressed by an earlier Parliament and the situation that has developed in practice. I bring the motion forward because, although strictly it deals with parliamentary responsibility for the proper use of public funds, it is inevitably associated with an issue of conscience and for this reason it is difficult for the Government to bring it forward as a government measure. 
Honourable members will recall that on 10 May 1973 the House defeated the Medical Practice Clarification Bill. This was a private member's Bill introduced by the then honourable members for Diamond Valley and Latrobe which sought to provide for abortion on demand. The proposition was rejected by 98 votes to 23 on the second reading. Less than one year later, in the life of the same Parliament, the administrative decision to allow funding for a specific abortion item was taken without reference to the Parliament, which had expressed so definite a view on so closely related a matter less than a year before. The Parliament was never informed in any specific sense that this important decision was being taken by the Government of the day in 1 974. To the best of my knowledge no publicity was given to this decision, nor was the fact referred to by the Medical Fees Tribunal. Because no one knew of the decision, it was not challenged in the Parliament. 
On 15 September 1977 the now Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  announced that he had asked his Department to 'examine the whole area to ascertain whether there are ways and means of ensuring that benefits are payable only to mothers who have had an abortion on proper medical grounds'. I believe that to have been a commendable initiative by the Minister. I do not imply any criticism of the Minister when I say that Parliament has not seen or been informed of the results of that review. The review was an internal departmental procedure designed to provide advice to the Minister. It is not normal for departmental reviews or advisings to be tabled. The review resulted in no change to the status quo. I want to make the point that the result of the review is not secret or confidential. When I asked, I was told of its findings and of the reasons. I understand that this information has been made available to other honourable members. Parliament may or may not have agreed with the decision, but it was not informed. . 
Two related issues did come before the Parliament. The first was the Minister's decision to allow health funds an option to put up for approval a table of benefits which excluded abortion payments. This option was approved by Parliament in 1978. The second was the gazetting of an ordinance by the Minister to regulate the occurrence of abortion in the Australian Capital Territory. This ordinance was challenged in, and upheld by, the Senate in November 1978. Parliament has yet to express an opinion on the propriety of using public funds for elective abortions. 
This Parliament has no power over the legality of abortion. That question is a matter for the State governments, each of which has settled on the conditions under which abortion will be allowed as a legal operation. The existing situation is different in different States. The only question that relates to abortion which can be considered by this Parliament is whether a medical benefit should be available for the operation and, if so, under what circumstances. This is, of course, the major issue which the House will be dealing with in this debate. The fact that changes in the medical benefits system became effective on 1 November last year and have resulted in the Commonwealth meeting all but $20 of the cost of pregnancy terminations emphasises the need for Parliament to determine an attitude on the subject. It is my hope that the House will express a firm opinion in favour of the motion and that the Government will translate the expressed view of this chamber into legislation which will prevent the use of public funds for elective abortions. 
The Department of Health has informed me that the following is the situation: In 1977-78, 50,900 abortions were performed at a benefit cost of $3. 4m. I emphasise that this amount and this number relate only to item 6469 abortions because it is the only specific abortion item. These figures do not take into account abortions performed in public hospitals, abortions that are not claimed for some reason, or the associated anaesthesia and pathology and other services which are usually part of the abortion procedure. The Royal Commission on Human Relationships estimated that there are 60,000 abortions annually. This figure is hard to dispute. We know that medical benefits were paid for 50,900 abortions and there would almost certainly be another 9,000 or so performed within the public hospital system, or performed under an item other than 6469, or simply not claimed. 
From the public money point of view, the known benefit payout is $3. 4m but, taking into account payments under other items and for other related medical services, I believe the public money payment to be at least $6m. The question that the House has to resolve is whether it believes that the bulk of that $6m, which is paying for on demand, elective, or non-medically necessary abortions through the medical benefits system, is a proper use of public funds. The number of live births in 1977-78 was 226,364. The ratio of abortions to live births is about one to four. I do not believe that there is a member in this House who would accept that, given the state of medical technology today, there can be any medical necessity for aborting one pregnancy in every four. It is probably the highest ratio in the Western world. 
I shall now deal with the meaning and the intent of the motion. The first part of the motion is designed to prevent the payment of benefits for termination of pregnancy unless the termination was the only way in which the mother's life could be protected from a specified physical condition. The second part of the motion is designed to provide for the payment of benefits only in certain circumstances. Under part (2) (a) of the motion, the doctor who performed a service which could result in the termination of pregnancy should certify that the operation was not performed to terminate a pregnancy. In simple terms, if a doctor performs a normal dilettage and curettage for normal gynaecological reasons, he should say so and the benefit will be payable. 
Under part 2 (b), the doctor who performed the service which resulted in the deliberate termination of a pregnancy should certify that the termination was the only way in which he could protect the mother's life from a specified physical condition. Again in simple terms, if the woman had cancer of the womb which could be treated in no other way than by termination of the pregnancy and her life was in danger, then benefits would be paid if the doctor so certified. The words 'and the life could be protected in no other way' are necessary to cover those situations where an abortion is only one of the means available to protect the life of the mother. If, for instance, the mother was anaemic, an abortion would probably cure her, but iron tablets and a change of diet would cure her also. What the motion says is that the termination must be the only way in which the life can be protected, if benefits for it are to be paid. The motion seeks to apply a test of medical necessity to abortions for which medical benefits are claimed. Few people will argue that the present situation, based on and related to a concept of legality which stems from Menhennitt, has not caused an extension and direction of public funds into an area, the width of which was never contemplated by this Parliament. This has resulted in the excessive use or over-use of public funds, and Parliament should see that it does not continue. 
I must acknowledge that the motion provides for certification by the doctor. This approach is not unique in sentiment, although it may be in practice. Already the Government has applied tests of medical necessity to the use of pathological services, to the use of health scanning services, and to the use of some cosmetic surgery. It is likely that a test will be applied to the use of X-rays if the suggested abuse can be shown to be serious. The Government has denied benefits for life assurance check-ups. It restricts prescription of some drugs under the pharmaceutical benefits scheme. Under the other restrictions the Government has applied to the eligibility for medical benefits, the matter is left to the ethical judgment of the doctor. 
Unfortunately, in the area under discussion there are doctors who have openly stated that they will flout and ignore the laws. It is because of this limited number of doctors that I believe the certification is necessary. There is little point in introducing a new regime which is accepted by most doctors if a few doctors abuse it, attract all the business and are responsible for the vast majority of claims for benefit. I believe that the House will see this as a reasonable proposition, and that although, in practice, it goes beyond other requirements or tests, it is, in this instance, justified. 
I realise that the question of certification has caused concern within the Australian Medical Association. I will come back to that point later if I get the chance. At this stage I want to acknowledge that difficulties in legislating to implement the spirit of this motion, if passed, and in administering it will almost certainly arise. I am asking the House to express support for the motion as a statement of principle with the acknowledgment that some form of certification will be required. If the motion is passed, it becomes a matter for the Government and Parliamentary Counsel to propose a method of implementation and administration, and for that to come back to the Parliament as an Act or as regulations. At that time the House can express a point of view as to the appropriateness or otherwise of the manner in which the principle has been translated into legislation. I shall quote briefly from the second reading speech of the present Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  when introducing into the Parliament last year, I think it was, a Bill in relation to the health screening activity. He said: 
Under existing legislation medical benefits are payable for such services regardless of there being any indication medically for the necessity for the service or its effectiveness. I am sure honourable members will agree that the medical benefits system should not operate in such circumstances and that the costs of such services should be borne by the individual electing to have them rendered. 
I ask the House to apply the same principle to pregnancy terminations. I hope that honourable members will vote today on the point of principle and not on the administrative implications. The principle of the motion differs deliberately from the Menhennitt judgment in Victoria and the Levine judgment in New South Wales. In Davidson's case in 1969  Mr Justice  Menhennitt ruled as follows: 
For the use of an instrument with intent to procure a miscarriage to be lawful the accused must honestly have believed on reasonable grounds that the act done by him was: 
necessary to preserve a woman from the serious danger to her life or her physical and mental health, not being merely the normal dangers of pregnancy and childbirth, which the continuation of the pregnancy would entail; and 
in the circumstances not out of proportion to the danger to be averted. 
In Wald's case in 1972 Judge Levine ruled in substantially the same terms but went on to say: 
With regard to mental health it is proper . . . to consider whether the danger to mental health arose from not only mental disease, or disease of the mind, but from the effects of economic or social stresses that may be pertaining at the time. 
It is well to examine the basis upon which these two decisions stand. The Menhennitt judgment is a decision of a single justice of the Victorian Supreme Court. The Levine judgment is a subsequent decision of a single judge of the District Court of New South Wales, a court of similar status to a County Court in Victoria. Neither judgment has been confirmed by a full or superior court and I understand that neither would be. 
The honourable member for Lang has obtained an opinion from a leading Queen's Counsel of the New South Wales and Victorian Bars which I have seen. This opinion makes it abundantly clear that these two judgments have no basis in law. The legal reasoning which is relied upon by Menhennitt and which is followed by Levine is totally discredited and has never been applied by a senior appellate court anywhere in the English speaking world. The famous English case of R. v. Dudley in 1884, where the castaways killed and ate the cabin boy, rejected necessity as a defence. With the exception of Menhennitt and Levine, it has never been accepted as a defence since. The Victorian Full Supreme Court itself rejected it in 1978 in R. v Dawson. Menhennitt and Levine stand only because successive Attorneys-General in Victoria and New South Wales have not challenged the judgments. 
Although the status of Menhennitt and Levine is a matter which relates to State legality, and as I have already acknowledged legality is properly a matter for the respective State governments, it is very relevant to this debate because there are some who would seek to apply State legality as the test for the payment of Commonwealth medical benefits. The point I want to make is that these two judgments are not good law and it would be untenable to write them into any administrative or statutory instrument of this Parliament in the knowledge that they are not good law. 
The motion before the House does not provide for mental health or economic or social stresses. It provides only for protection of physical life. The reason for the divergence is firstly that, as I will explain later, there is no nexus between State legality and obligation on the Commonwealth to pay benefits. This is of vital and fundamental importance, and I stress it by repeating it: There is no nexus between State legality and obligation on the Commonwealth to pay benefits. Secondly, the interpretation of the judgments in these. two States respectively has been such that the ability to take mental health into account has allowed for the proliferation of legal abortions, all of which attract benefits funded by the Commonwealth. 
South Australia also allows for mental health to be taken into account. That is the only State for which detailed statistics are available. In that State, in 1977, 96 per cent of abortions were performed on grounds of mental health. In South Australia, in 1977, 3,590 abortions were recorded. Of these, only 49, or 1.36 per cent, were due to specified medical disorders. I think these statistics speak for themselves. It seems extraordinary that the simple act of terminating the pregnancy immediately restored to sound mental health over 3,500 South Australian women in one year. The state of mental health of most of these women was such that they required no psychiatric treatment, they required no admittance to a mental institution, they required no follow-up treatment or consultation. All they required was to have their pregnancies terminated. They had to assume or to adopt a mental health disorder as a prerequisite to having their pregnancies terminated legally. Is there any requirement for the Commonwealth to accept that as a basis for paying benefits? 
I would like to deal with some of the arguments that have been put up against this motion. Firstly, it needs to be understood that the Commonwealth cannot differentiate between citizens of different States when determining how benefits will be paid under any item in the medical schedule. There can be no deliberate favouritism. It has been argued that because abortion is legal in the States the Commonwealth should provide a benefit for the operation. However, as honourable members will be aware, this proposition is not one that falls evenly on each State because the availability and legality of abortion differs between the States. Benefits will be paid to citizens of some States and not to citizens of others, depending on State legality. The Commonwealth is entitled to set guidelines for the payment of benefits which differ from the accepted legal position in a State, particularly when the position differs as between States. There is no requirement for uniformity as between State legality and Commonwealth benefits. Indeed, in this case such uniformity is not possible. 
Putting aside the legal differences as between States, there is a related argument that legality of itself creates an obligation to pay benefits. I do not believe that legality implies an obligation on the Commonwealth to provide a benefit. For instance, it is legal for a person to have a medical checkup prior to having a proposal for life assurance accepted by a life office. But this does not imply an obligation on the part of the Commonwealth to provide a benefit for what is a proper and legal medical service. In fact, section 1 9 of the Health Insurance Act specifically excludes this medical service from medical benefits payments. There is no link between legality and benefits. I interpose to say that the Supreme Court of the United States of America determined in 1 977 that Congress has the power to decide not to fund abortions. The argument that legality implies benefits does not stand up. 
The thrust of my argument is that there is no obligation on the Commonwealth to pay benefits for an abortion which the doctor is not prepared to certify is necessary on medical grounds. This brings into question the definition of the word medical'. I do not dispute that in the literal sense an abortion is 'medical'. But in the wider sense I find difficulty in accepting that a procedure performed when a patient is not suffering from any specific condition and is not in danger of death can be considered 'medical'. If, for instance, a doctor amputated a perfectly healthy and functional hand, whilst the procedure would no doubt be medical in the strict sense, no one would agree that it was medical in the sense that it was related to health and well-being. In fact it would be considered highly irresponsible and unethical in the case of the hand but not so in the case of the unborn child. I believe that Parliament is entitled to ask for a certification of medical necessity in the 'protect the life of the mother from a specified physical condition' sense before agreeing to make a medical benefit available. 
I will not ask for an extension of time because many other members of this House want to speak in this debate. In conclusion, I want to set the scene for this debate. The Parliament at the moment is effectively allowing for free abortion on demand- at least in New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia. The proposition I put is to provide benefits only for those abortions which are necessary on good medical grounds. The choice is a clear one. I commend the motion to the House. 
-There has been one major argument which has been regularly raised during this debate and it is that with which I wish to concern myself. The argument is that this Parliament has no right to interfere with or to influence the laws of the States and that we must be bound by the legal position of the States. Virtually every  speaker  opposed to my motion has raised this argument in one form or another. All but four members of the Australian Labor Party seem to forget that when in government they spent three years trying, and in some cases succeeding, in imposing the will of the Commonwealth on the States. To a greater or lesser extent coalition governments have done the same thing. What was the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  doing when he interrupted the debate at 5.30 tonight to announce financial retaliation against what he called the irresponsible decision of New South Wales which wants to introduce a 371/2 hour week? Does anybody believe that the Treasurer, with impeccable timing, was doing anything other than trying to force the Commonwealth view on a State. It amazes me that members of this Parliament accept the view that the Commonwealth should be bound by laws of the States. Section 51 (xxiiiA) of the Constitution states: 
The Parliament shall . . . have power to make laws for the peace, order, and good government of the Commonwealth with respect to: . . . sickness and hospital benefits, medical and dental services (but not so as to authorise any form of civil conscription) . . . 
There is no doubt that this Parliament has the power to set the terms and conditions that it may wish to attach to the disbursement of the public funds for which it has constitutional responsibility. What are we doing every time we legislate under section 96 of the Constitution? We are imposing the will of the Commonwealth on the States, whether they like it or not. What was the Treasurer doing tonight? But even though this is unarguably the case, I do not seek to impose any will- Commonwealth, mine, or otherwise- on the States. I ask the Parliament to do nothing more than exercise its undoubted power to restrict the application of funds for which the Parliament has responsibility in such a way that they will be available to pay for abortion only if there are good medical grounds for the abortion. I have made it clear that I do not agree with the way in which the State law is being administered in some of the States. But I have also acknowledged that that is a matter for the States. The House must equally acknowledge that there is no constitutional right to medical benefits. There is nothing in my motion which would impinge in any way on the rights Of any State or of any citizen of any State. If my motion passes, the laws that apply in the States tomorrow will be no different from the laws that apply in the States today, no one's rights will be affected because no rights are under challenge. No one will be disadvantaged because the welfare system- in this case the public hospital system- guarantees that no one will be disadvantaged. That is what the system is there for. 
No one will be forced to illegal abortionists because legal abortions will still be available free- as the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  acknowledges- to those who need them. At the end of the day my motion can only achieve one thing. Those who seek a legal abortion on demand and who have the capacity to pay will pay for the operation. If I can turn another argument which I have heard so many times in this debate, on its head and that is that it is only the better off who will pay. The poor or disadvantaged will not. But in agreeing to my proposition the House will have taken a giant step forward. It will have acknowledged that there is not an obligation on the Parliament to expend money for abortion on demand. The only contribution to abortion this Parliament will be authorising will be through the welfare system where the legality and administration is a State and not a Commonwealth responsibility, and is therefore beyond the control of this Parliament, or where there is a legitimate medical necessity through the medical benefits system. To reject my motion the House does one thing and only one thing. It establishes positively the liability of the public purse to meet the full cost of abortion on demand. To support the Simon amendment is to support that proposition. The Simon amendment positively, almost, de jure, commits this Parliament to a situation that to date has been only de facto. I reject it out of hand. The Hyde amendment is acceptable to me. It does nothing more than to leave the Government, rather than the House, at this time to work out how to implement the principle expressed in my motion. I will support the Hyde amendment and vote against the Cadman, Simon and other amendments. I ask my supporters to do the same. 
My duty is to obtain a majority decision of the House and this I should do as quickly as possible. After listening to the views of the movers of the various amendments, I have concluded that I should first put to the House the amendment of the honourable member for McMillan. If it gains a majority of votes it will be unnecessary for me to determine the priority of other amendments. If it fails I will decide from the numbers disclosed an order for presentation of other amendments. 
The amendment proposed by the honourable member for McMillan is: 
That all words after 'That' (first occurring) be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: this House is of the opinion that the Commonwealth Government should not pay any medical benefits for or in relation to the termination of pregnancy unless the procedure is performed in accordance with the law of a State or Territory'. 
Therefore the question before the House is: 
That the amendment moved by the honourable member for McMillan be agreed to. ' 
Question put: 
That the amendment moved by the honourable member for McMillan be agreed to. 
-Is the Minister for Primary Industry aware of the difficult wheat handling program which is facing the Grain Elevators Board of New South Wales as a result of the record harvest in that State? Is he also aware of the continuing industrial stoppages which are aggravating an almost impossible task for the Board? Since the responsibility is one for the New South Wales Government, can the Minister give an assurance that he will impress upon the New South Wales Premier the need for his intervention to settle the dispute so that this year's wheat harvest may be moved and shipped? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 22 March 1979: 
1 ) Is he able to state whether the Preterm Clinic in New South Wales is a non-profit organisation. 
Is he also able to state whether (a) there is any association between the Preterm Clinic and the Preterm Foundation, and (b) either the Preterm Clinic or the Preterm Foundation publish accounts or financial statements. 
If so, what does the Preterm Clinic do with its operating surplus. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 27 March 1979: 
What are the 25 items on the Medical Benefits Schedule which (a) are the most frequently used and (b) account for the greatest expenditure, ranked in descending order in each case. 
I compliment the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  for his contribution to this debate. There is no doubt whatsoever that when he puts politics to one side and is prepared to speak in a bipartisan fashion in the national interest he makes a very worthwhile contribution to this Parliament. The suggestion he has made tonight is one which I think ought to be taken seriously by the Government. Even if the Government has to provide rent-free space at the Sydney airport, it should be done. The purpose of the Bills before the House has been stated by probably everybody who has spoken. The Bills extend the provisions of the reserve price scheme for wool for another year in order to cover the purchases by the Australian Wool Corporation for the next season. There are the related Bills which provide the enabling legislation for the collection of the levy at the rate of 5 per cent for wool which is sold. This assists in the financing of the floor price scheme. 
At present the wool industry situation is bright and it appears that it will continue that way for a reasonable period.  Mr Maiden, Chairman  of the Australian Wool Corporation, spoke a few weeks ago in Perth at the Agricultural Conference. He made some forecasts in relation to the sheep industry and said that sheep numbers would recover from their present low level, caused largely because of drought effects, and are expected to level out at about 145 million to 150 million head. Shorn wool production over the next few years should average about 700 million kilograms a year. 
I am pleased that the wool industry is facing a period of relative stability. Prices certainly are satisfactory at present. The floor price which this legislation enables to be continued always provides that downside risk protection which is necessary in an industry like this. 
As most honourable members would be aware, the market situation has been favourable since the opening of the season after Christmas. The market indicator is now something over 360c a kilogram clean. As I indicated, that is a satisfactory price, even though many wool growers have not yet recovered from the periods when the price of wool was certainly unsatisfactory, particularly in the light of rising costs which are always a factor in this industry. It is probably worth mentioning at this time that there are continuing problems in the wool industry especially in relation to negotiations for the award rate for shearing and other costs. The cost of chemicals continues to rise. The continued escalation in costs is a problem in the wool industry, as it is in all other industries. It is appropriate that the market should have responded at this stage. Growers now are in a position to get a reasonable return. 
The stockpile has been reduced quite significantly in the course of this year. I believe that the Australian Wool Corporation has acted very responsibly in its management of the market, by use of the stockpile. The Corporation has maintained the market increase at a steady level. Market increases have not been allowed to run uncontrolled as they did in earlier years with the result that, at that time, serious repercussions occurred when readjustment was necessary. 
The Corporation must continue to hold a reasonable stockpile of wool because, obviously, as soon as it has no stockpile, the Commission's effect in the marketplace is minimised, if not totally eliminated. The question of what is a reasonable level at which to maintain the stockpile is a matter which will always be open to argument. Perhaps we should not let the stockpile fall bellow the level of 250,000 bales or 300,000 bales. Honourable members are aware that the Corporation has repaid the total debt which was funded by the Commonwealth when the stockpile was high. The industry is now operating completely on its own feet in respect of the stockpile and the floor price scheme. The industry is pleased about that. No organisation likes to be in a situation where it has to call on the Government for assistance, unless that is absolutely necessary. As my colleague, the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett),  pointed out so well, it is proper for the Government to respond when the industry finds itself in areas of difficulty. 
I understand that next year the industry will have contributed over the period that that levy has been in operation approximately $300m in total to the 5 per cent levy scheme. I understand that it is generally agreed in the industry that next year is an appropriate time to give consideration to future policies and management proposals for the industry. The proposition which I personally favour is that we get as soon as we can to a situation where that fund more properly services the industry and where growers are not making open-ended commitments year by year to it. 
I have a couple of other matters which I think are relevant at this time. Following pressure from the industry and, of course, from the  Deputy  Prime Minister and Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony),  who has been working constantly in this area, the Government of the United States of America has finally agreed to a reduction of 60 per cent in the tariff on wool which is imported by that country. That is an achievement for which this Government, particularly the  Deputy  Prime Minister, and wool industry leaders should take a great deal of credit. I believe that the proposition is commendable because the tariff cut agreed upon represents the upper level to which the Americans are allowed to negotiate. This proposition will start in 1980. The tariff will be cut by 60 per cent over three years. That is the minimum period over which a cut of this size can be made. The Australian wool industry has achieved a win on two points: The first is that Australia has received the maximum cut; the second is that the cut will be made in the minimum period possible. That is something which I think is commendable. 
The other thing which I think is important to the industry as a whole at this stage and worthy of mention is the live sheep export market. This new and developing market has enabled people to get a reasonable price, in many cases a very good price, for old sheep. That is something which has not always operated in the past. It is particularly important that this live export market is kept open and developed and that we have this outlet for older sheep so that people are able to restock from the proceeds at a reasonable level. 
I would like to mention a range of things in relation to marketing within the wool industry. The Bureau of Agricultural Economics has been doing some analyses of the various propositions that are around at the moment. It points out that there are three proposals for modifying the present marketing system. They are presently on the table. The National Council of Wool Selling Brokers of Australia has one, the Australian Council of Woolbuyers has one and of course there has been a third proposal from the Australian Wool Corporation in conjunction with the 
Australian Wool Industry Conference and the policy committee which we have been informed recently has been shelved, for the moment at least. The BAE sees the proposal of the National Council of Wool Selling Brokers as the institutionalising of the present system with more control of operations vested in growers' hands by representation on the board and the role of private buyers curtailed by requiring that wool for export must pass through the wool selling exchange. The BAE believes that all exchange members would be required to use the same methods and have the same charges for their services under this scheme. The curtailment of private buying and the uniformity in methods and charges would effectively reduce the level of competition in the wool market and reduce the marketing options which are available to growers. 
The proposal from the National Council also suggests that direct purchase by bulk classers could be an advantageous innovation. By contrast the BAE sees the Australian Council of Woolbuyers proposal placing emphasis on stimulation of competition amongst the brokers by permitting various methods of handling, selling and setting charges. This proposal would still effectively prevent private buyers dealing directly with overseas mills. The Australian Wool Corporation in its scheme has proposed that all export wool should be acquired and that all the export be. .handled by a single authority. It is claimed that that arrangement would maximise grower returns, particularly in relation to reduced marketing costs and the adoption of currently available technologies and modified selling procedures. 
A long hard look into the acquisition of all export wool by the Australian Wool Corporation was a healthy exercise for the industry in spite of the final decision, at this stage at least, against acquisition. The acquisition proposals spurred a lot of scrutiny at the present marketing system. This kind of scrutiny is needed if we are to keep on our toes and to keep ourselves open to improvements in wool handling and marketing. I feel that the decision to reject acquisition at this stage represents "the views of the majority of growers. I still remain unconvinced that export acquisition would guarantee growers a higher long-term net return than we could achieve by streamlining our present system. The exponents of acquisition have said that it would have several key advantages for growers. One of the main advantages would have been guaranteed payment within 15 working days of receival. This would have meant a cheque equivalent to the reserve price quickly. The other purported benefits would have included reduced transportation and shipping costs. As well, full-time wool appraisers and the reduced role for brokers would have added up to more profit for the grower. The advocates of acquisition readily acknowledge that it would cost growers an extra $ 18m to gain the benefits of some $37m to $48m in additional revenue. The $18m would be used by the Corporation to pay interest on the money it would have to borrow to pay growers within the 15-day period. Payment for the final sale of wool could be months in the future. There would also be additional storage, appraisal and administrative costs for the Corporation under the acquisition proposal. 
As a wool grower I support the scrapping of the acquisition at this stage. The Australian Woolgrowers and Graziers Council has pointed out that $20m to $25m of the benefits from the proposal would have come from sayings in transportation. It believes that the saving can be made without the necessity of an export acquisition scheme. That leaves little net benefit on paper. The Corporation says that if all went well, in an average year it may only mean about $10 for each wool grower. The Bureau of Agricultural Economics has had real doubts about acquisition. In a recent newspaper the BAE stated as follows: 
Because major changes such as those being suggested have an unknown probability of not being as successful as suspected, they represent action which would expose the wool marketing system to unnecessarily high risks. 
The BAE has also argued that 'the main objectives of the changes can be achieved by other means'. The present system can accommodate new handling and transport techniques. In this respect we ought to be looking to give the Wool Corporation more flexibility in the way in which it handles the transport and shipping of wool. A trial shipment recently indicated that we can save something like $7 or $8 per bale on the current Conference charges. This is something which needs to be looked at and I think the Government ought to co-operate with the Corporation and the industry in this respect. We ought to support the rejection of wool acquisition, at least at this time, but continue to pursue the savings that can be achieved in handling and transportation costs in the interests of all wool growers. I support these Bills wholeheartedly, as does the entire National Country Party, which always take a significant, permanent and positive interest in matters of this nature. I commend them to the House. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 29 March 1979: 
1 ) What is the number of recipients of social security benefits and the amount of those benefits paid by the Department of Social Security where the application for benefit followed, or was consequent upon, the dissolution of marriage. 
If no records are available, is the Minister able to indicate whether, in the Department's experience, a large, small or intermediate number of applications for benefit or pension are made by a partner to a marriage following on, or consequent upon, the dissolution of the marriage. 
-I direct my question to the Minister for Primary Industry. After the recent Australian Agricultural Council meeting did the Minister announce that the proposed domestic wheat marketing arrangements might be disrupted because of the attitude of the New South Wales Government? Can the Minister inform the House whether the attitude of the New South Wales Government has altered? Can the Minister advise the House on progress with the wheat arrangements and when he expects to introduce the legislation? 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 28 May 1979: 
Further to the answer to question No. 3506  (Hansard,  1 May 1979, page 1707) is he able to provide the fullest financial details that may be available from the Australian Capital Territory Corporate Affairs Office, or wherever else they may be filed, for the Pre-term Foundation as at: 
31 December 1974, 
30 June 1975, 
30 June 1976, 
30 June 1977; and 
30 June 1978. 
-Between Gunning and Gundagai, a distance of 150 kilometres, the Hume Highway runs through the electorate of Hume. For that reason the Hume Highway is of particular interest to me. Since the enactment of the National Roads Act 1974, the Hume Highway has been classified a national highway. Under the provisions of this Act all expenditure on the Hume is funded by the Federal Government. Prior to 1974 this highway, and other highways which are now national highways, were classified as rural arterial roads and were jointly funded by Federal and State Governments. Money was certainly spent on national highways prior to 1974 but since that date the Federal Government has expended about $196m for national highway construction and maintenance in New South Wales. Of this amount $150m has been allocated to the Hume Highway. By 1981 the investment in the Hume Highway will have exceeded $408m since the Federal Government took over total responsibility for that highway. 
It is obvious that the nation has a massive investment in the Hume Highway, but it is proper that this should be so as the Hume is the main Sydney to Melbourne road link and is arguably the most important road in Australia. By comparison the Moomba-Sydney national gas pipeline cost $232m from start to finish. It spans a distance of 1,300 kilometres. The Hume Highway is 870 kilometres in length. Investment in the Hume will ultimately be many times larger than the investment in that natural gas pipeline, which is generally regarded as being a major national project in terms of scope and investment. Between Yass and Gundagai, which is a representative section of the Hume Highway, the average daily volume of traffic in both directions was 3,600 in 1974. By 1976 this flow of traffic had increased to 4,700 per day. The New South Wales Department of Main Roads estimates a continuing 4 per cent to 5 per cent annual rate of growth in the amount of traffic using the Hume Highway. A couple of years ago the Bureau of Roads forecast that the usage would rise to 7,700 vehicles a day by the year 2000. In 1974 a vehicle travelled on the Hume every 27 seconds, 24 hours a day. By the year 2000 a vehicle will travel on that highway every 11 seconds, 24 hours a day. If the heavy vehicle percentage remains the same as it was in 1974 a heavy vehicle will travel on the road every quarter of a minute in the year 2000. 
The National Roads and Motorists Association has been extremely critical of the Hume Highway in regular surveys that it has carried out. In the two years between February 1 975 and February 1977, only 21.9 kilometres of additional divided road were opened to the public in New South Wales. At the time of the survey 79 per cent or 613 kilometres of the total length of the highway was not divided. In New South Wales 420 kilometres or 83 per cent of the New South Wales length was not divided. Even at the rate of 15 kilometres of new divided road per annum, it is going to take until the end of the century for the Hume Highway to be upgraded to dual carriageway. The Bureau of Transport Economics in its assessment of the Austraiian road system in 1979 says the Sydney-Melbourne stretch of the national highway is 93 per cent deficient in its length. Eighty-two per cent is geometrically deficient, that is, that the width of the seal is not satisfactory. Fifty-eight per cent is structurally deficient. In New South Wales 78 per cent of the highway is deficient and the Bureau estimates that between 1982 and 1984 an additional 8 per cent of the highway is expected to become deficient. 
Over the next five or six years the maintenance costs in 1976-77 dollars is expected to be in the order of $7m per annum for the New South Wales section of the highway. In each of the last 5 or 6 years, approximately 1,000 casualty accidents have occurred on the New South Wales section of the Hume. The number of fatalities in each of those years has been in the seventies and the number of injuries has averaged over 1,400. In recent years trucks and semi-trailers have been involved in at least 20 per cent of the casualty accidents. A couple of years ago the Bureau of Transport Economics estimated that the construction of a four lane highway would save 200 to 250 lives between Goulburn and Albury alone over the next 30 years. A 60 kilometre an hour speed limit applies over 12 per cent of the Hume Highway. It passes through 17 separate zones which are classified as urban. There are seven level crossings on the New South Wales section. Overtaking is illegal on almost 20 per cent of the length of the Hume and there are 97 advisory speed signs indicating poor alignment or construction. 
Design standards under the National Roads Act indicate that the design of roadworks construction or reconstruction is for 20 years after completion. In the case of bridges the design is for 30 years. What concerns me is that in 20 or 30 years time at the end of the century when the road should have reached a dual carriageway standard from Sydney to Melbourne, major reconstruction will be necessary because significant sections of it will have outlasted the life for which they were designed. At that time also, the volume of traffic will be close to double its present level. In view of the size of the investment in the Hume Highway it would seem appropriate to look at ways of extending the life of the Hume beyond this 20 year period. I believe the only logical way to achieve this objective is to reduce the rate of growth in the volume of traffic using the highway. Economic factors obviously influence the use which is made of anything. There is a relationship between air fares, bus fares, train fares and private vehicle use. There is also a relationship between air freight rates, rail freight rates and road transport rates. If the life and the economics of the Hume are to be improved there must be variations in the economic factors. 
There are also State Government regulations which control to some extent the use of the highway. I believe it is simply a matter of enforcement of existing legislation or regulations in many cases. If a truck is overweight at a checking station it is my understanding that the driver may be booked, but unfortunately, his load is not reduced. Checking stations have become collectors of revenue rather than enforcers of the law, and even in this respect they are not particularly effective. For instance, the New South Wales Department of Main Roads convicted and fined only 18 offenders for highway overweight trucking from June 1977 to June 1978 and fines totalled $870. Two hundred and forty-one vehicles were fined for being of excess length; 63 vehicles were fined for being of excess width and 19 vehicles were fined for being of excess height. I believe the New South Wales Government should enforce the weight limits. If a truck is overloaded it should not be allowed to proceed until it conforms to the regulations. Similar comments apply to length. The commonly used 40-foot unit can conform to overall length requirements only if it is hitched to a small prime mover. Most are not and are therefore operating illegally. This is another regulation which could be enforced. 
In Victoria a speed limit of 80 kilometres an hour applies to vehicles weighing  4Vi  tons gross. In New South Wales a speed limit of 80 kilometres an hour applies to vehicles weighing over three tons. It is common knowledge to anyone using the highway that a large proportion of the heavy vehicles do not observe the 80 kilometres an hour speed limit. It is simply not enforced. It should be. Drivers of vehicles with an unladen weight of over two tons must have one half hour's rest and refreshment after five consecutive hours of driving. It is prohibited to drive more than 12 hours in any 24 hours. Although it is perhaps technically possible to drive a truck within the speed limit between Sydney and Melbourne in 12 hours, it is only just possible. In actual experience I do not believe it can be achieved. The trip must take more than 12 hours. One major operator quotes 14 hours. For operators to be within the law, as I understand it, trucks must carry two drivers, arrange for change-overs or wait for long periods along the route. Some do, but many do not. If the time limit regulations were enforced the economics of many operators who operate single-driver trucks between Sydney and Melbourne would be altered adversely. The regulations should be enforced. 
Speed and weight are both important factors in both the deterioration of the Hume and in the safety aspects of travel on the highway. Driver efficiency is no less important. The New South Wales State Government has at its disposal the means of controlling to a significant extent each of these factors. No new regulations or controls need to be introduced. They exist now and have done for some years. All that is required is for the State authorities to enforce the existing regulations. If nothing else were done I am of the view that the Hume would have a longer life, would be cheaper to maintain and would experience fewer accidents. But a lot more needs to be done. There needs to be a greater effort directed towards encouraging freight to be moved by rail. Obviously the railway has a major task in front of it in this respect but the challenge must be accepted. 
Thomas Nationwide Transport Ltd, a major transport group, already operates its own train and has done for over 10 years. This train operates on the Sydney-Melbourne run 6 days a week. TNT owns the rolling stock, handles its own loading and unloading, and the railway does the haulage and provides the engine. When the road costs to and from the rail head allied with the container lifting charges are considered, the cost of TNT rail service and TNT road service to the end consumer is similar, although the road service is a little faster. The significant feature of the train is that each trip it makes it carries a rninimum 450 tons of freight, the equivalent of about 1 8 trucks. The fact that the train operates at all keeps over 100 trucks a week off the Hume Highway. This train can carry 600 tons of freight each trip- that is equivalent to keeping 150 trucks a week off the Hume. If TNT can do it, and if Mayne Nickless Ltd, another company, can do it, others can do it and the railways ought to be encouraging this sort of operation. Not only does it improve the position of the railways; it improves conditions on the Hume. 
If the road regulations are enforced or hardened, operators will have to look more at rail. Railway authorities should be looking towards leasing goods yards space to commercial transport operators who could handle their own loading or unloading. They should be looking towards reducing time delays which plague railway goods yards and shunting operations. They should be eliminating the damage caused to freight which seems far more prevalent on rail than on road. They should be making the use of rail far more effective. 
Debate interrupted. 
-When speaking in the Budget debate last night I made reference to the Australian transport system, particularly that between Sydney and Melbourne. I made reference to the Hume Highway and to the main southern railway line. The point I was making was that it seems to me to be something of a tragedy that Australia is developing such an enormous investment in the Hume Highway and that not enough is being done to use to its full potential the equally valuable investment in the main southern railway line. Little needs to be done to the main southern line to improve its efficiency. A double track runs from Sydney to Junee. From Junee to Albury the line is single track. From Albury to Melbourne it is again double track. 
The Bureau of Tranport Economics has recommended the introduction of a series of extended loops and centralised traffic control between Junee and Albury. The Bureau has put the cost of these measures at about $4m at 1973 price levels. So, I would imagine they would cost more than that today. Even so, the introduction of those improvements would result in the equivalent of a double line facility for a fraction of the cost of actually duplicating the line between Junee and Albury. In any case, a dual carriageway is estimated to cost an average of about $lm per kilometre as against $320,000 per kilometre for a double line railway. I have argued that the Federal Government is undertaking a massive investment on behalf of the nation in the Sydney-Melbourne Hume Highway project. It is in the national interest that this highway be put to optimum use. If it is used to excess the cost of providing and maintaining the Hume will become a burden which will be out of proportion to the nation's priorities. The State Government in New South Wales has at its disposal the means to regulate effectively the movement of heavy traffic on the Hume, and it is the heavy traffic that is the cause of so much concern. New South Wales has only to enforce the means which are already in existence. 
I have argued for a greater and continually increasing amount of freight to be diverted to rail as an effective means of taking pressure off the Hume. I would like to see co-operation between the New South Wales, the Victorian and the Federal governments in determining the optimum level of traffic appropriate for the Hume and in directing resources towards development of rail as a more significant carrier of intercapital freight. Obviously co-ordination would be necessary between the New South Wales railway authorities and the Victorian railway authorities to ensure efficient handling in goods yards at each end of the line. I do not believe that these problems are insurmountable. It is my belief that if the two railway authorities could lease to private enterprise goods yard space and rolling stock, if rolling stock could not be purchased by private enterprise, we would be well on the way to a far more efficient use of the transport facilities available on this particular route. Such a system would allow for transport companies to deliver freight to their own railway depots and to load their own rail trucks. When the train was made up, the railway authorities would bring in a locomotive and take the train to its destination. When it reached the other end the company would unload and, with the use of feeder trucks, distribute the freight efficiently. 
It seems to me to be something approaching a national tragedy that we have a main southern line between Sydney and Melbourne which is not being used to anything like its full potential. We are spending hundreds of millions of dollars in upgrading the Hume Highway. We will probably never be able to get it to a standard where it will carry the volume of traffic that is projected for it and, at the same time, be maintained in a satisfactory state of repair. Bearing in mind the economics of building railways as opposed to dual carriageway highways, it must be obvious that more needs to be done in the area of railways, particularly in the area of moving freight. I believe that this matter should be looked at seriously by the three governments concerned. Perhaps it can be raised in the national interest by the Transport Ministers at their next Australian Transport Advisory Council meeting or at some other similar forum. 
I do not want anything that I have said in the course of my contribution to this debate to indicate that I do not support the upgrading of the 
Hume Highway. Obviously that is a major project, a necessary project and a project that must be pursued. From the early days of national highway policy I have been a great supporter of that policy and of the total reconstruction and, in many cases, the re-routing and realignment of the Hume Highway. Obviously it is the most important road in Australia. What needs to be considered by the three governments I have mentioned is that there has to be a balanced and proper use of what will obviously be a great national asset, namely a four-lane carriageway between Sydney and Melbourne. If the overuse of freight carriers on that highway causes the costs of maintaining the highway to get out of hand, if it causes the uses to which the highway can be put to be affected adversely, then I think that the situation needs to be examined. The fact that the railway line exists and is not being used is something that really needs to be considered seriously, as I said earlier, in the national interest. Consultation ought to take place between the three governments I mentioned and some proper study ought to be carried out on what the use of the Hume Highway should be, as agreed by the three governments. If, as a result of such an inquiry, it is determined that there is enough freight carried on that road already, I believe that we ought to take positive steps to ensure that future growth in freight traffic is diverted to rail and taken off the Hume. 
-Today marks the end of the third month since the closure of the Conkey &amp; Sons Ltd abattoir at Cootamundra. Probably three quarters of a million dollars in wages alone has been lost to Cootamundra and will never be recovered. The amount lost because those wages are not circulating from one hand to another is immeasurable. What has been achieved? The answer has to be nothing. The lines are exactly as they were the day the works closed three months ago. The union wants the conditions existing before the closure. Metro Meat Ltd wants federal award coverage. 
One month ago yesterday, on 13 August, Justice Mary Gaudron completed the hearing on Metro's application for a Federal award. Despite the union assurances at the meeting on 25 August that the decision would be handed down the following week, the result of the application is still not known. How many ex-employees have left town or obtained other employment? One hundred? Two hundred? The union could not manage more than about 1 10 at the official meeting on 25 August, only a handful more than the number who attended Nevyl Hand 's meetings a couple of weeks earlier. It is a fair guess that those who have left are the young and mobile former workers without dependants. Those still in town would be married people with commitments who are trying to get by on unemployment benefits. They are the ones who can not pack up and leave without significant disruption and hardship. Can blame be apportioned? I think it can be and should be. 
Metro bought the Conkey business earlier this year. With it Metro bought a long history of industrial trouble. Much of that trouble was deliberately organised because Conkeys was seen as a weak link in the abattoir chain. Conditions or improvements won at Conkeys could be passed on to union members in other works. The Conkey company had limited financial resources to withstand such industrial disruption and  Mr Conkey  himself always felt a responsibility to Cootamundra and tended to meet demands in the interests of a stable community. Metro does not have the same feeling toward Cootamundra that Harold Conkey had. The new owners wanted to, and were entitled to, seek to overcome the sorry industrial record at Cootamundra. As owners of four other abattoirs in other states, Metro wanted to standardise all its works under the federal award. On 21 May, Metro applied to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission for federal award coverage. I acknowledge that at that time the abattoir was operating unprofitably. Prices were high and numbers were down. But Metro was going to great lengths to maintain a kill and to maintain employment. 
On Friday, 22 June, after a totally irresponsible strike in breach of an agreement made the day before, Metro closed the works. The managing director of Metro made it clear that the abattoir would not reopen except under the company's terms. That meant a federal award. Metro's position has not altered in three months. At least once during that period, Metro has made it clear that if the union consented to federal award coverage, it would look to re-opening the works immediately. Can Metro be blamed for what has happened? I think not. The company has acted as any fair-minded person would expect it to act. It is not prepared to accept the atrocious industrial record at Cootamundra. The plant was closed only after severe union provocation. Terms for reopening have been made clear. They are reasonable terms. Can the union be blamed? I think it can be, and I believe it should be blamed. 
The initial cause of the closure, despite what the union may say, was industrial disruption. It had a history of years and years of disruption. The obvious intention of the union was to continue that disruption under the new ownership. Everybody in Cootamundra knows that that is the reality. The day the works were closed the union said there would be no return to work other than under the pre-existing conditions. That was a mass meeting attended by the organiser from Sydney. I do not suggest it was not a democratic decision. What I am concerned about is what the local members of the union were told before the vote. The union has stuck by that decision for three months, despite the fact that in two unofficial meetings with no Sydney representative present, almost 100 members voted to accept the federal award. The Cootamundra people know there is nothing to fear in the federal award. They know that in most cases, they will be paid more. The basic difference is that some workers will have to work a full day instead of finishing when the tally is completed. On that point of great principle, the union has kept the Cootamundra work force out for three months. 
Where does the blame lie? I say it lies fairly and squarely with the union in Sydney. Its members could have been in work two months ago but for intransigent attitudes in Sydney. How much longer will Sydney deny these 300 jobs in Cootamundra while members of the same union are killing stock in other abattoirs? Is three months not enough? The power of the union, the mystique, the almost religious adherence is, to me, frightening. About 90 people voted for the union motion on 25 August after presumably the same people had voted the the opposite way a few weeks previously. Nevyl Hand, who had called the previous meetings, was ridiculed. What had he done? He had done nothing other than to try to get people to see reason and to try to get them their jobs back. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Giles)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-In a speech in the adjournment debate last Wednesday night the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr John Brown)  made a series of charges against me relating to the Cootamundra district abattoir dispute. I will deal with them in the order in which the honourable member raised them. He accused me of 'shady, almost clandestine actions behind the scenes'. He continued: 
These actions cloaked under the guise of interceding on behalf of disadvantaged families were in fact hypocritically calculated to manipulate men fighting to retain their employment under the State award. 
I reject the accusation of the honourable member for Parramatta. Constituents of mine came to see me about the continued closure of the abattoir. I did nothing other than to respond to the requests made of me by my constituents. 
The honourable member said that I interfered in union matters. I did not. I said and continue to say that members of the union concerned in Cootamundra have it in their hands to make their own decisions, that they do not have to be used as pawns by the union officials in Sydney. The union itself said it would be bound by the majority in Cootamundra but refused to call a meeting on the award issue between 1 1 May and 25 August. The abattoir closed on 22 June. In facing a three-month closure of the major industry in Cootamundra, I pointed out that there was another way out- an alternative. Are we to accept that union officials have a monopoly on the right to speak, as the honourable member for Parramatta would suggest? I did not interfere in union affairs. The union interfered with the right of 320 people to work, 200 of whom are still not employed. The honourable member for Parramatta speaks with pride of that union. It is a union which has caused more disruption than probably any other. It is a union which has contributed nothing but disorder and chaos to a great Australian industry. 
The honourable member made accusations about my role in the withholding of unemployment benefit payments. These accusations, like the others he made, are false. After receiving inquiries from dismissed workers, my office made the normal check with the Department of Social Security and was informed that as the workers had contributed to their dismissal unemployment benefit would not be available. The local Social Security office informed my office that the decision would have to be ratified by Sydney or Canberra. I released a statement which said nothing more than that. There followed a series of accusations that the management had engineered the strike in order to close the works and ultimately the Department of Social Security declared that unemployment benefit would be available. I had already announced my intention to have the whole matter determined by the Social Security Appeals Tribunal in view of the confused situation and in view of representations to me by former employees who had been on recreation leave, on sick leave, on night shift and in other situations and who were denied benefits. Because of the Department's action, it was not necessary for me to pursue this course. 
The honourable member for Parramatta referred to telegrams which resulted from meetings he accused me of organising. I did not organise those meetings. They were organised by concerned union members and former employees who wanted their jobs back and were not concerned about the technicalities of award coverage. It is to the credit of those people, not me, that they were prepared to indicate their dissatisfaction with the way in which their situation was being handled by the union. The union has emerged from the whole affair with no credit. The honourable member for Parramatta has emerged with no credit in trying to score political points from a situation in which he was not involved and about which he has received secondhand and obviously biased reports. All his accusations against me are without foundation. The people of Cootamundra know the facts and I am happy to be judged by them. 
-Is the Treasurer able to give the Parliament any details of progress in redrafting section 260 of the Income Tax Assessment Act? 
-The honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr Kerin)  who has just sat down, mentioned at the conclusion of his speech the points which the Opposition wished to focus on today. If the honourable member thinks that the Opposition has been successful in focusing on these matters, I think it should take the lens back and have it reground. It has got nowhere near the issue. The matter of public importance that was raised by the Opposition, that is: 'The increasing rate of inflation resulting from Government policies', was hardly referred to by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis).  The honourable member for Werriwa rose and criticised the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  for devoting most of his speech to oil and then proceeded to devote the first half of his own speech to exactly the same matter. He finished up with a fairly semantic sort of discussion about what was going on in terms of external factors. He spent virtually none of the time that was available to him discussing the matter that the Opposition had sought to raise and which he said it had effectively focused on, that is, the Government's policies in relation to inflation. 
The reality is that this Government in Australia is performing in a very satisfactory fashion. It is to the credit of this Government that it has had the tenacity to stick with policies which in many instances have not been easy policies to follow. In many instances it has been difficult to persuade the electorate that it is necessary to adopt these policies. The Government has pursued these policies with great tenacity over a period of four years. The result of that is that inflation in Australia has been broken. Contrary to what the honourable member for Werriwa was saying there is not now in Australia the inflationary expectation which we had in this country a few years ago. In fact, the average person in Australia regards it as an achievement of the 
Government that the inflationary expectation has been halted. 
What has happened in Australia is that the Government has reduced inflation from the extraordinarily high levels of 17 per cent or 18 per cent that the Labor Government took it to. The Government brought inflation back down to 8 per cent or 9 per cent and it is fluctuating around that mark. Depending on how individual things go at different times, the rate of inflation can rise to 9 per cent or 9&amp; per cent or it can go down to 7 per cent. It is moving around that point. If we take into account what is happening in other comparable countries and economies, what is happening in the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, and what is happening in individual countries we see that the situation in Australia is a totally satisfactory one. It is to the credit of this Government and to the credit of the Treasurer that we have been able to achieve a situation where we are several percentage points under the OECD average. We were double the number of percentage points under the United States and Great Britain, countries which are our major trading partners. Is it any wonder that we have achieved a more com.petitive position in relation to those trading partners as a result of this Government's policies. 
Accepting the logic of what has been put to us by the honourable member for Gellibrand and the honourable member for Werriwa today, we would have to give the Government enormous credit. If we accept the figures that the honourable member for Werriwa used- he said 2.25 per cent of the consumer price index this year would be attributable to oil, 1.5 per cent would be attributable to health and another 1.5 per cent attributable to other excise increases- there is a total of 5.25 per cent which is directly attributable to what the Government, through its policies, has put in place in this economy. Those decisions having been taken- I ask members of the Opposition to perform a simple subtraction, but I do not think they really can in economic termsand if the inflation rate this year is going to be around 10 per cent, the underlying rate of inflation before taking into account those government factors is only 5 per cent. So this Government has achieved a situation where the underlying rate of inflation, taking out government activity and government influence on the rate of inflation, is less than 5 per cent. The Government in pursuing responsible policies has had no option but to add another 5 per cent to that. An underlying rate of inflation of 5 per cent is the real comparison that ought to be made with the rate of inflation of the Whitlam years when it was 15 per cent to 17 per cent, and there were no decisions like the decisions which had to be taken by this Government which created an element of government induced contribution to the rate of inflation; that is the test that has to be applied. This Government has an inflation rate of 5 per cent where the Labor Government had an inflation of 15 per cent to 18 per cent. 
-I have just been through it. If the honourable member had listened to me instead of reading the rubbish he has in front of him he would understand the argument. The reality is that this Government has got inflation under control. It has had to take hard, responsible decisions in relation to things like energy in Australia and the health insurance system which the Labor Government made such an appalling mess of in its three years in office. Admittedly, and we have acknowledged it as a Government, these have added to the rate of inflation, but the rate of inflation this year, I believe, will still be single digit. The honourable member for Gellibrand referred to the Government's wages policy and the effect that had had. He quoted something from the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  about how wages had played a neutral role. I am not sure of the context from which that came, but if I take it that wages had been neutral in the terms of the effect that they were having on inflation, then that again is a credit to the Government's policy because what the Government has done is to neutralise the effect that wages have. 
What the Opposition is about to do is to go out and support full indexation, support this productivity and work value hearing and do its level best to support the trade union movement in its push to get wages up. What this Government has done over the period that it has been in office, as the Prime Minister said and as was quoted by the honourable member for Gellibrand quite generously, is to neutralise the wages effect. We do not want to see that spiralling again. That is exactly what is going to happen if the sorts of policies are followed that the Labor Party and the trade union movement want to follow. It is just not on. This Government will continue to oppose those excesses and will continue to hold the wages factor in inflation in a neutral position because that is where it ought to be. 
I come back again to the question of expectation because I think it is important. The realities in Australia are that the people have accepted the fact that inflation has been brought under control by this Government. That is a basic thing and is something which, over the last couple of years, the people of Australia have realised. The movement in inflation rates at the moment is nothing more than one or two per cent up or one or two per cent down on a satisfactorily low figure. I make the comparison again between Australia and those countries with which we trade and those countries with which we normally compare ourselves. We are three or four per cent below the OECD average, we are five or six per cent below the United States and Great Britain. 
In Australia the Government's economic policy must be pursued because of the necessity of keeping inflation at these low levels by comparison with other economies, particularly those economies with which we trade. That is what the Government's economic policy is all about. The Labor Party has brought nothing into this Parliament which in any way, shape or form over the last four years is going to do anything other than to boost the rate of inflation and destroy the economic recovery which this Government has set in train and which is having the effects that it is having on the economy today. Every indicator shows signs of improvement and buoyancy. There is no doubt in anybody's mind that our economy is on the road to recovery. The Government must take enormous credit- it deserves enormous credit- for the way it has handled this economy and achieved the results that it has. The Opposition can take no credit whatsoever and deserves no credit. As I said at the beginning of my speech it ought to go and regrind its lens if it wants to focus on this Government in the way it has proposed to do today and has failed so dismally to do. 
Order! The discussion is now concluded. 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the House revert to the original method of introducing petitions. 
-by leave-Like the honourable member for Ballarat  (Mr Short),  I would like to thank you very sincerely,  Mr Speaker,  for the leadership that you gave to the delegation and for the contribution that you made to the overall success of the delegation among not only the members themselves but also the many people of whom we were guests while we were in Europe. I would also like to record my thanks to the officials in France, in Luxembourg and in the European Economic Community in Brussels, to the Australian Ambassador  Mr Rowland,  to  Sir James  Plimsoll and to the Foreign Affairs officers in Europe. I would also like to thank the French Embassy in Australia for the hospitality and interest it showed both before the delegation left Australia and after it returned. I also record my thanks to the secretary of the delegation,  Mr Phillip  Bush, whose linguistic expertise made the delegation's trip such a useful, worthwhile and pleasant experience. 
There are a few matters which have been mentioned by other honourable members upon which I will not expand. I would like to join totally with what the honourable member for Ballarat  (Mr Short)  said about the Mirage as a tactical fighter force replacement in Australia. I would like also to say how important it is for Australia to develop and maintain very close relationships with the European Economic Community. To me, one of the most interesting aspects of the delegation's visit was to see the other side of the argument. We in Australia tend to look upon the Australian point of view as being the only one, but obviously, as in so many other areas, there are two points of view, and the Europeans have one. One of the things which was very important was the fact that Roy Jenkins, on behalf of the EEC, stated his intention to see that the European Economic Community opened a mission in Australia. That will go a long way towards improving relationships between the European Economic Community and this country. 
The European Parliament is an institution which is growing in significance. As was mentioned by the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes),  its first fully representative elections were held while we were there.  Mr Speaker  did not mention this, but it should be mentioned that the Australian Parliament is making a gift of a gavel to the European Parliament. I think that is a very proper thing to do. We, as a Parliament, ought to give consideration to going further in this respect, and we ought to consider giving something to the European Parliament. I would like to see a gift of a work of art which is distinctly Australian and which could be displayed in some prominent position. It would be a constant reminder of the relationship between Australia and the EEC. 
I would like to speak about the uranium activities that we saw, which for me was the high point of the whole trip. The Tricastin enrichment plant in France is an investment amounting to something like $2 billion. The feed for that plant is about 18,000 tons per annum of natural uranium which assays at about 0.7 per cent. The production that comes from the enrichment plant is 10.8 million separative work units, which is equivalent to 2,500 tonnes of enriched uranium 235 which assays as 3 per cent to 4 per cent uranium 235. The tailings that come out of that enrichment plant consist of 0.2 per cent uranium 235. The enrichment plant has a power requirement of 3,100 megawatts.  Mr Speaker,  you will recall that in the uranium process the role of an enrichment plant is very similar to the role of an oil refinery in the oil industry. The uranium is taken to a stage where it can be used as a feed for the reactors, in the same way that an oil refinery upgrades the oil for feed for uses to which petroleum products are put. In this particular plant there is a seven year process from the selection of the site to full production, which has not yet been achieved and will not be achieved until about 1981. 
I would like to say something about the uranium process because I think it is very important to Australia, and it is something to which we should be giving very serious consideration. The process basically is a gasified uranium hexafluoride flow which goes through three stages, the first being a compressor, the second being a diffuser and the third being a heat exchange. There are 1,400 individual units involved in this plant. The process is such that the more units the gas goes through the purer it becomes. The gas goes into a compressor and flows from the compressor into the diffuser. The richer gas goes into the next compressor and diffuser process, ultimately going through all 1,400 units. The lower gas goes out through a heat exchanger and back through the compressor and diffuser stage again. From an initial grade of 0.7 per cent the rich gas gets richer and the low gas becomes poorer until the assays go from that 0.7 per cent up to 3 per cent to 4 per cent, which is the reactor feed level, and down to 0.2 per cent, at which stage it has become the tailings or the waste. 
There are no problems with this waste. The amount of radioactive waste associated with an enrichment plant is absolutely minimal. 
Australia ought to be looking at this project. The requirements for an enrichment plant of this, nature are steel, of which Australia has no shortage, and energy. As I indicated, there is a need for a power source of 3,100 megawatts. The Tricastin plant is based on an electricity plant in the same vicinity. We have a choice of establishing such a plant, based either on hydro-electricity or on one of the coalfields in this country. We ought to be looking at that. There is an enormous requirement of nickel. In an enrichment plant, all the surfaces exposed to uranium have to be nickel coated. When this particular establishment was constructed an equivalent of two hectares of surface area was nickel plated each month. Obviously Australia has the nickel. The only other thing that is needed in an enrichment plant is the uranium, and Australia has that uranium. 
In 1990 there will be a world demand for 75 million separative work units. The European availability will be 22 million separative work units and the United States of America availability will be 38 million separative work units. That represents a total availability of 60 million separative work units with a shortfall of 15 million. An Australian plant producing 10 million separative work units would not create an oversupply of enrichment facilities in the world. Australia must act soon in this particular respect in view of the long lead time required and because we ought to signal our intention to the rest of the world, before other countries get into it, that we want to be in this field and satisfy the demand. 
There is a serious risk of Australia getting into exactly the same position with uranium as it did with wool. For the best part of a century all the wool from this country was exported and treated in other countries. We should not allow that to happen in relation to uranium. In this present energy situation Australia should not be just a mine or a quarry for the rest of the world. We should extract that uranium and convert it to yellowcake, as we intend to do, and we should also invest the $2 billion that is necessary to establish a uranium enrichment plant in Australia. I believe that this is something which is of vital importance to Australia. It is something which does not provide any environmental risk or waste hazard. It is something to which this Government should give very close and full consideration in the immediate future.  Mr Speaker,  I conclude by thanking you for your leadership and your patience and tolerance in allowing me to say a few words on the tabling of this important statement. 

 -Mr Chairman- 

Motion ( by  Mr Bourchier)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report- by leave- adopted. 
I am concerned about the income tax structure in Australia. There is no doubt that there is widespread concern and dissatisfaction with the taxation structure in this country. One of the measures of dissatisfaction is the extent to which tax avoidance has developed as an industry in Australia. The Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  recently said that the Commissioner of Taxation had identified over 10,000 taxpayers as participants in tax avoidance schemes, compared with about 860 in 1975-76 and 2,200 in 1976-77. In his 1979-80 Budget the Treasurer provided for $683m as being the loss to revenue from tax avoidance. It is important to realise that the 10,000 taxpayers and the $683m both relate to known, identifiable or actioned schemes. The amount of income not declared and the amount of tax avoided is incalculable. 
It needs to be understood that the problem has its origins in the system itself. Because people are dissatisfied with the existing system they will go, and do go, to differing degrees of effort to reduce or eliminate their tax liability. The Government's efforts to counter this increasing level of activity are necessarily slow and result normally in complex and lengthy legislation. This is so because first a scheme or a device has to be identified before a counter to it can be introduced. The principles relating to retrospectivity are such that in virtually all cases the revenue lost before the Government takes action is not recoverable. 
One of the results is the increasing complexity and size of the Income Tax Assessment Act itself, and another is the amount of time and effort that has to be devoted to tax avoidance by officials, the Government and the Parliament. To make matters worse the avoidance industry continues to throw out the challenge by saying: 'Every time you close a loophole, we'll open another'. It seems that the process is endless and that the elimination of tax avoidance will become an increasingly major consumer of time for officials, government and the Parliament. It is my contention that the basic reason for the problem we face is that we are trying to patch up a bad system. Whilst I commend the Treasurer's efforts in relation to tax avoidance, I cannot see how all the effort in the world will solve the problem. It has often been said that a government cannot enforce a bad law. I think that syndrome dominates taxation in Australia. 
I wish to commend the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  for the proposals he has brought forward, which have been favourably received, in relation to family income splitting. I believe that the honourable member for Sturt deserves much credit for causing people to think about the system and to seek ways to remove inequities from within it. But I am concerned about his proposal for two reasons and I want to put those reasons before putting a possible alternative proposition. My first concern is that the proposal of the honourable member for Sturt builds on the existing system. Even though his proposal would remove inequities, once that position had been achieved we would still be faced with all the problems that we now face with the system as we know it. In a way the honourable member is moving the same way as the Treasurer- to patch up a bad system. 
The second concern I have is that the honourable member's proposal carries the inherent risk of raising community expectation. If for some reason the Government found it could not accept the proposal, those expectations would be dashed. The problem here is that I believe the honourable member to be right. There can be significant disadvantage to single income families as compared to two-income families. This fact has now been well publicised and those who are disadvantaged are entitled to expect the Government to redress that disadvantage. If the proposal is not implemented, a serious problem exists between those people and the Government. I have a minor concern about the honourable member's proposal and that is that the proposal depends upon tax indexation for its implementation. It seems to me that tax indexation has been clearly demonstrated to be fraught with difficulties in the practical political sense as well as in the fiscal or budgetary sense. I would prefer a tax system that, because of its justice and equity, did not require indexation to maintain its partial acceptability in the community. 
I believe that the debate on income tax needs to be broadened so that the options are not limited to tax cuts, indexation and the proposal from the honourable member for Sturt. I say this because, with all due respect to the Government, the Treasurer, the honourable member for Sturt and most commentators, these options are really only adjustments at the margin. They involve adjustments to what I have already described as a bad system. Australia needs realistically to consider a fundamental change to its existing taxation system- a change that will give equity and incentive and eliminate the desire for tax avoidance. It is in this spirit that I wish to put forward a proposal that I hope will be taken as a serious and realistic contribution to the taxation debate in Australia. My proposition demonstrates that a system of flat rate tax can be introduced in Australia at an acceptable cost, if in fact at any cost at all. I do not intend to deal with the advantages of flat rate tax. I believe the arguments are well known and accepted. The difficulty with flat rate tax has always been seen to be the cost of implementing what is regarded as a good system. I hope to show that it can be implemented. 
The proposal argues for a flat 20 per cent rate of tax on incomes. In contrast to the family income splitting proposal of the honourable member for Sturt, this proposition involves taxing the family unit. Because a percentage of the taxpayers who pay less than 20 per cent would be disadvantaged by the flat rate proposal it would be necessary to allow those taxpayers to opt for the existing structure. A flat rate tax system such as proposed here would eliminate the need for tax indexation, would remove rebates and concessional deductions, and would involve no threshold. It would also mean a reversion to non-taxation of pensions. It would also remove almost entirely tax avoidance and tax evasion as well as ensuring that most income is declared. A flat rate tax regime would need to be accompanied by stiff penalties for those abusing the system. 
As the latest taxation statistics available are for the 1976-77 income year, all figures in this proposal relate to that year. In relative terms, the current position should not be substantially different. At an income level of $9,500 the average flat rate of tax is 20.3 per cent. The amount of $9,500 is the critical income level in this proposal. Below $9,500 are 64 per cent of the taxpayers, who pay 32 per cent of the tax. The proposal is that those above $9,500 would pay a 20 per cent flat rate on every dollar of income and that those below could opt for the existing rate structure if they would be disadvantaged by paying 20 per cent. On the surface the loss to revenue is enormous. On the assumption that all those below $9,500 opted for the existing system, and all those above $9,500 paid 20 per cent, the cost would be almost $2 billion. Obviously such a cost would be unacceptable. 
The proposal depends largely on the acceptance of taxation of the family unit. A 'family' means husband, wife, children and full time student children. The flat rate of tax would be applied to the grossed up income derived by all members of a family. A family would be taxed as one entity. The reason for this approach is to remove the necessity for income splitting and it would result in virtually all family partnerships and trusts being taxed as if they were one income. Two income families would not be disadvantaged because they could opt for whichever was the most attractive- the flat rate tax or the existing scales. The only families that would opt for the existing scales would be those with a combined income of less than $9,500. With the passage of time, and with the effect of inflation, the number of taxpayers with an income below $9,500 would diminish until virtually all taxpayers, on a family unit basis, would receive about $9,500 and paying the flat rate of 20 per cent. 
Perhaps the question most important to this proposal is: How many would opt for the existing scales? Obviously every individual and every family receiving over $9,500 would be advantaged by the 20 per cent flat rate, and any individual or family receiving below $9,500 would be disadvantaged because the average, the flat rate, below $9,500 falls steadily. As previously mentioned it would only be the genuine below $9,500 income individuals and families who would opt for the existing scales and pay less than 20 per cent. But there are many other categories of people receiving below $9,500 for whom the 20 per cent rate would be more atractive. Firstly there are the income splitters and there are a large number of husbands, wives and children included in the 64 per cent of taxpayers receiving below $9,500. There are working wives whose individual incomes are less than $9,500, but who, on a family income basis, would benefit from a flat rate. There are part-time workers who earn less than $9,500 but who would benefit from flat rate tax. There are people, such as school leavers, who are not members of the work force for a full year and so earn less than $9,500 but who would be advantaged by flat rate tax. There are pensioners who, pension and income included, earn less than $9,500. With no tax applying to the pension these pensioners would be advantaged by paying 20 per cent tax rather than 32 per cent tax on any income over and above the pension. There would be others who would benefit from flat rate tax and who would transfer from the existing scales even though their income is less than $9,500. 
In summary, it is my contention that a large proportion of those receiving below $9,500 would in fact opt to pay tax at the flat 20 per cent rate. I believe that this proportion is most likely to be around half, but in the table I have prepared I include figures for 25 per cent, 50 per cent and 75 per cent of those receiving below $9,500 transferring to the 20 per cent flat rate. It will be apparent that the more people who are taxed at 20 per cent the less will be the cost to revenue, because those opting for the old scales will be paying a flat rate of less than 20 per cent. If 50 per cent of those below $9,500 opted to pay the 20 per cent flat rate the superficial cost to revenue would be $1.47 billion. If only 25 per cent transferred it would be $1.73 billion, and if 75 per cent transferred it would be $1.23 billion. As I indicated earlier I believe the most likely result would be about 50 per cent with a superficial cost of about $1.5 billion. 
There are two principal ways through which the bulk or all of the $1.47 billion revenue forgone would be recovered. Firstly a large amount of presently undeclared income would be declared; and secondly tax avoidance would be largely eliminated. I believe there is some mutual exclusivity in relation to the two points, but equally the amounts in each do not cancel each other out. It can be argued that the benefit from the combined effect of the two results could well exceed the $1.47 billion forgone. The amount of additional income that would need to be declared and taxed at 20 per cent in order to break even at $ 10.75 billion, which is the amount of tax raised in 1976-77, is $7.3 billion or 15 per cent more income than was declared in 1976-77 on the presumption that 50 per cent of those receiving below $9,500 would opt to transfer to the 20 percent rate. If 25 percent transferred the additional income would need to be $8.6 billion or 18 per cent, and if 75 per cent transferred it would be $6.1 billion or 13 per cent of that declared now. It is not unrealistic to assume that this would happen. 
The Treasurer has stated in his Budget Speech that the amount of tax outstanding from tax avoidance schemes acted on by the Government in 1978-79 is $433m. He also stated that $250m extra had been provided for to cover further tax avoidance. It should be borne in mind that this $683m only allows for known tax avoidance schemes that have been acted upon. It is not unrealistic to believe that at least a further $1 billion in tax would be raised from what the community at large regarded as a 'fair' system of taxation. 
One of the principal reasons why some would oppose such a flat rate tax system is that it would provide a windfall benefit for the rich. This needs to be put into perspective. The first thing that needs to be said is that 93 per cent of taxpayers have a taxable income of less than $16,000. Those who receive between $9,500 and $ 16,000, who account for 29 per cent of taxpayers, would benefit from a reduction in their average or flat rate of tax from between 27.6 per cent and 20.3 per cent, depending on income level, down to 20 per cent. For most of these the reduction in tax would not be large and they could in no way be classified as rich. That leaves the 7 per cent of the taxpayers in Australia who have taxable incomes in excess of $16,000. Depending on how we define rich, people receiving over $16,000 would, at or above that level, fall into that category. These 7 per cent currently pay 16 per cent of the total tax collected from individuals. At the absolute extreme there are 873 people with a taxable income over $100,000. These 873 people would have their flat rate of tax reduced from 60 per cent to 20 per cent. If we take $20,000 as the level above which one becomes rich, less than 3 per cent of taxpayers are in that rich category. 
It strikes me as absurd to deny 93 or 97 per cent of taxpayers a sensible taxation system for no other reason than that 3 or 7 per cent of taxpayers will receive a significant reduction in tax. Although opponents of flat rate tax will always quote individual examples of what the tax benefit would be, they totally overlook the immense benefits that flow from such a system to the whole community. The certainty, confidence and incentive that accompanies the fact that tax takes only 20 cents in every dollar earned more than outweighs the only other suggested protection- indexation. Indexation is only valuable if the income growth does not exceed the inflation growth or indexation adjustment. Flat rate tax is more beneficial. It may also be argued in a negative sense that there is not much equity in the present system under which those taxpayers receiving below $9,500-64 per cent- pay only 32 per cent of the tax while the remaining 36 per cent pay 68 per cent of the tax collected. The flat rate tax system I envisage would result in the estimated 32 per cent of taxpayers receiving below $9,500 paying 23 per cent of the tax, and those receiving over $9,500- an estimated 68 per cent- paying 77 per cent of the tax collected. 
I said earlier that one of the basic difficulties with flat rate tax is the cost of its implementation. Obviously it would be impossible to consider flat rate tax at a time when the Budget deficit was running at $3 billion, $4 billion or $5 billion. That is not now the case. The deficit is now under control relative to recent years. The Government has scope to reduce expenditure and it also has the oil revenues. The combination of these three factors is such that we are now in the ideal climate to introduce flat rate tax, even if it cost $0.5 billion. The benefit to the community would be more than outweighed by any short term cost to the deficit. Any lack of confidence that may follow a larger deficit would be more than offset by the boost to confidence and consumer spending that would accompany flat rate tax. If, as seems to be the case, the Government has a commitment to tax cuts or tax reform next year then I ask that this proposal be fully examined, costed and debated. I do not argue that this proposal is the final, only or perfect solution, but Australia may never have a better opportunity to introduce flat rate tax than it has now. If this opportunity is not taken now we may well be saddled with the existing unsatisfactory system into the indeterminate future. Although I have not shown those two tables to the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis),  I seek leave to incorporate them in  Hansard.  One is a summary of the table which was in the Budget Paper No. 1 1 and the second is a table which I prepared and referred to in my speech. 
Leave granted. 

 The tables read as follows- 


<graphic href="116131197911083_87_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="116131197911083_88_0.jpg"></graphic>

I want to take about 10 seconds of the time of the House to speak on the question of tax avoidance which members of the Opposition laboured so heavily during the Committee stage of the Bill as well as during the second reading stage. One of the questions that has not been mentioned by members of the Opposition is the question of cash payments. It is apparent to everybody who knows anything about taxation in Australia that the greatest single area of tax avoidance is the area of cash payments. Almost the whole of the building industry is riddled with it, and it is to be found in many other sections of the community. The honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr John Brown)  made great play of the fact that one never sees the working class people mentioned in the statistics published by the Commissioner of Taxation relating to people who have been charged with tax avoidance and so on. That may well be the case, but a greater amount of tax is foregone by the Government through the action of those whom the Australian Labor Party refers to as the good, honest people of this country that it represents. The fact of the matter is that every person in this community is doing his best to reduce and to minimise the amount of taxation that he has to pay- the workers whom the Labor Party is representing as well as everybody else. 
I should have said 'supposed to represent'. It may be of interest to members of the Opposition to know that only 10 per cent of the taxpayers of this country earn over $20,000. Those people pay less than $2 billion in tax. If those people cut their tax in half it would not account for the amount of money that the honourable member for Parramatta says is being ripped off in tax avoidance by people at the highest level of income. That relates only to those people who earn $20,000. The fact of the matter is that a great loss in revenue is coming from the activities of the average people in this community who do a bit of gardening here and a bit of plastering or the laying of a few bricks there and who get paid in cash by the people by whom they are employed. They never declare that income and they never pay any tax on it. That is the reality of the situation. So it should never be suggested in this Parliament by members of the Labor Party, or by anybody else for that matter, that the great mass of the low income earners in this country makes no effort to reduce or to avoid income tax. The fact of the matter is that 45 per cent of the taxpayers are in the category of being below the average level of $ 1 0,000 or $ 1 1 ,000. One only needs to have each of those people avoiding $20, $50 or a couple of hundred dollars a year in income tax and that would account for the hundreds of thousands and millions of dollars about which everyone is concerned. That is the reality of the situation. 
That takes me back to the point that I was making earlier. I am not supposed to refer to an earlier debate, but until we get a fair system of taxation in this country- a system of taxation which people are prepared to accept as being fair and reasonable- there will be a continual desire on the part of everybody to try to minimise, avoid and reduce income tax payments. I make the point that tax avoidance is not something which is the prerogative of the so-called rich and wealthy and the high income earners in this country. Everybody knows, and it needs to be constantly repeated, that the greatest area of tax avoidance in Australia is the area of the cash payments which takes place largely at the lower end ofth e income strata. 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
In my view, the Bills before the House represent a major advance for the wheat growing industry in Australia. They also represent an extraordinarily good result from the negotiations that took place between the Government and the industry. I think it is a credit to the Government and particularly to the right honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair),  as well as to the present Minister for Primary Industry (Mr/ Nixon), and the industry itself, largely through the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation, that the arrangements that have been negotiated and we are now debating in the form of these Bills before the House have been achieved. The result is one which is very much supported by the wheat growing industry. It is one under which the industry has received virtually all that it asked" for. There is no doubt whatsoever that the impact of this legislation will be of enormous benefit to the wheat growing industry in Australia. ( 
I speak in favour of the package of seven wheat Bills which are now before the House. I see them as a major step in improving the efficient and organised marketing system which Australian grain growers have fought to develop over the last several decades. In order to judge the true impact of the legislation that we are now debating, I think it is a prerequisite to understand the vital importance of the wheat industry to Australia. Australia has 185,891 wheat growing properties. It is of interest to note that roughly 10 per cent of the wheat grown in Australia is grown in my electorate of Hume. A 1 976-77 survey by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics shows the average investment in land, equipment and buildings on wheat properties is $2 1 7,000. That is a large investment. Each wheat operation represents as much capital investment as many medium sized factories. Without doubt, the wheat industry has a large scale impact on the Australian economy and on the country's social fabric. 
Last year's record wheat crop topped 18 million tonnes. Domestic consumption needs take only 2 million tonnes. It is big business, not only in Australia but also on the world market. The International Wheat Council's figures for 1976-77- the latest figures available- show Australia exporting 8.4 million tonnes. That is 13 per cent of all the wheat traded that year by the major exporting countries. It is not uncommon for Australia to sell wheat to more than 50 countries in a single year. Not only is our industry large, but also is it efficient. The BAE reports that in the 70s, in spite of increased costs and fluctuating market returns, profitability generally increased on Australia 's wheat properties. 
The acreage under wheat is increasing also. Acreages have been steadily increasing during the last five years. In 1979-80, close to 1 1 million hectares were planted. This year, a 14V4 million tonne crop is expected. More wheat land is also being irrigated. More fertilizer is being applied. Growers are putting ever increasing pressures on government and research organisations for aggressive seed breeding and pest control so that yields can be further improved. Australia will have its first hybrid semi-dwarf white ready for government approval in the next few weeks. This particular wheat will be geared to the New South Wales prime dry land belt. This is an important step forward and proof that growers are taking all avenues open to boost their productivity. The gross value of wheat produced is about $2 billion. Certainly this is a crop that supports million-dollar activity in the service industries and million-dollar wages. The industry is obviously strong. 
One of the key reasons why the Australian wheat industry has grown as it has is organised marketing. Since 1948, the Australian Wheat Board has been the sole marketer of wheat abroad and on the home front. On the export front there is no tripping over each other and no undercutting of price. Efficient, well organised promotion has cultivated a constant, credible image. It is this kind of selling organisation, coupled with a mature wheat-growing community, that projects dependability of supply and quantity. Both are critical in developing export markets. An industry does not get this strong reputation for stability unless it earns it. The Wheat Board has done its part. The Wheat 
Growers Federation has done its part. So have the growers. 
Australia's wheat growers have known what their initial price will be and when they will get it, each year, for several years now. They know how the pricing system works and in the past they have had the stabilisation program which gives them an insurance against crashing prices. All of these points are signs of an organised marketing system. They give growers the knowledge and confidence they need to plan, to make decisions, and to make the long term investment needed in the industry. Wheat growing and marketing in Australia are sophisticated. They need to be. It takes much knowledge and skill to develop wheat markets. 
This brings me to the Wheat Marketing Bill 1979 and the other six complementary Bills in this package before us. I believe these Bills are the next step needed in improving wheat marketing and pricing structures. When passed, they will deal with the wheat crop for the next five seasons. Under this legislative package, the Australian Wheat Board continues to be the sole authority for the export of wheat and flour and for domestic wheat sales. However, there are changes. The biggest change for growers will be the larger first payment- more cash in hand at delivery. 
The Wheat Marketing Bill 1979, the main piece of legislation in the seven Bills, is designed to overcome the delayed pool payments and to improve cash flow to growers. The Australian Wheat Board will pay an initial payment equal to 95 per cent of the three-year average of the pool return for that season and the two previous seasons. This will be paid on delivery. Wheat growers can expect a guaranteed minimum of delivery price of at least $100 per tonne, less freight and Grain Elevator Board charges for the 1979-80 crop now coming off. The guaranteed minimum delivery price will be determined by the average export returns of the three previous years. The 1976-77 price was $92 a tonne. In 1977-78, the price was $103 a tonne. By following the trade closely and the price movement as recorded in the Australian  Financial Review,  the figure for 1978-79 will be a minimum of $130. Ninety-five per cent of the average of these three years is about $102. 
The guaranteed minimum delivery price for each season will be announced before 1 December. The payment will not be allowed to jump or to drop more than 1 5 per cent in any one year. The Wheat Finance Fund is also new. It is being created to help make the initial high payment possible. Without this new wheat finance fund, the Wheat Board would have remained restricted as to how large an initial payment it could make. The Board's only source of money previously was the Rural Credits Department of the Reserve Bank of Australia. That money must be paid back at the end of each 12 months borrowing period. What this boiled down to was that the Board could only pay out in initial payments, the amount it could guarantee in cash sales before the end of the year. 
Under the new legislation, the Wheat Board will have two sources of funds, the Reserve Bank and, for the first time in legislation, the power to borrow commercially. This means the Board can borrow from the Reserve Bank all the money needed to pay the larger initial payments. When the statutory payback time comes, the Board can refinance this debt from the open market. The Wheat Finance Fund is being established to permit this borrowing. Some growers fear that, if the Wheat Board has the authority to borrow on the commercial market, low interest Reserve Bank money may be cut off. Even if this proves true, the farm community will be protected by legislation. If Reserve Bank funds are not available for the first 12 months, the Australian Wheat Board will be reimbursed for the difference between the cost of borrowing on the open market and the lower cost of Reserve Bank money. 
The fund, in many ways, is a replacement for the old stabilisation assistance arrangement. The Industries Assistance Commission recently said that wheat stabilisation could not be justified on either efficiency or welfare grounds. As a result the stabilisation program will be legislated out of existence. This means growers will no longer have to pay a stabilisation levy. I think the new fund is a more fair and more efficient answer for growers than the old stabilisation program. 
The finance fund will have a ceiling of $ 100m. The $80m currently held in the wheat prices stabilisation fund will be transferred to the new fund. Growers will also contribute. They will pay a $2.50 a tonne levy. The fund is a pool of stand-by money from which the Wheat Board can borrow to clear debts to the Reserve Bank. Any excess over $100m will be paid back to growers. 
Also new in this wheat marketing package is this year's set price for home consumption $127.28 a tonne. Each year, the domestic price will be set by a formula which will provide, over the long-term, a margin above the export price. This price, however, will not be allowed to fluctuate by more than 20 per cent from year to year. The Wheat Board will also be given powers under this legislative package to fix prices of wheat for stock feed and industrial uses that will closely follow export prices. A new element of flexibility is also being introduced into the delivery system. Growers can apply to the Wheat Board for a permit to sell or to deliver their wheat direct to a buyer who is not a licensed receiver of the Australian Wheat Board. In this situation, as in all selling of wheat to either domestic or export markets, the Board will set the price, the freight allowance, et cetera. 
A great deal more can be said about this great industry which is obviously of enormous significance to Australia. However, because of the limited time available, I finish my remarks at this stage and indicate again that this Bill has my wholehearted support. It also has the wholehearted support of the wheat growing industry in Australia. 
-I direct my question to the Treasurer. I refer to the question asked by the honourable member for Tangney yesterday concerning flat rate taxation. Would the Treasurer be prepared to refer to the Commissioner of Taxation for his assessment proposals for flat rate taxation that would not involve the sorts of effects the Treasurer referred to in his answer to my colleague yesterday? Is it a fact that, as at least one report would seem to indicate, the 
Government opposes the concept of flat rate taxation? 
I welcome the Pipeline Construction (Young to Wagga Wagga) Bill 1 979. It has a very important impact on my electorate as one of the two areas which will be connected to the pipeline is Cootamundra. The Young-Cootamundra- Wagga pipeline concept goes back many years. Long negotiations have been going on between the Australian Gas Light Co. and the Pipeline Authority, between the Australian Gas Light Co., Wagga and Cootamundra and between the Government and the Pipeline Authority, Wagga and Cootamundra. There was a period of suspension when the project was shelved for a time. Although they have been lengthy, the negotiations have ultimately been satisfactory for all concerned. The significance of the lateral is that it will provide a long term and assured supply of gas at stable prices. That is something which, in view of today's energy difficulties, is welcomed greatly in Cootamundra and Wagga. 
The final authorisation for this project came in the energy statement of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on 27 June. At that stage the Government extended the concept of the lateral to include ultimately Albury and to connect Sydney and Melbourne with both Bass Strait and Moomba in what I hope will be the beginning of a gas pipeline grid in at least the eastern States. In that statement the Prime Minister also announced that the size of the line would be extended from 6 inches to 12 inches. That action again takes into account the future connection from Wagga to Albury and the linking of the two major fields with the two major capital cities. The cost of the lateral is estimated to be $ 17.5 m. At this stage I pay a tribute to the honourable member for Farrer, the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife),  who has consistently pursued this project. He deserves great credit for the ultimate result which this legislation will bring about. He has been a great inspiration to me throughout the long period of negotiations and discussions and has made my own task in supporting the project immeasurably easier. I hope- in fact I have no doubt- that the people of Wagga will appreciate the enormous and successful effort that the Minister has made on their behalf. 
One of the things that goes with the pipeline construction is an environmental impact study. I was pleased to see the Press statement from the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster)  on 16 November 1979. He announced that the Young to Wagga Wagga natural gas pipeline would become the subject of an environmental impact statement and that once this was available public comment would be invited on the draft. This is a necessary part of the process of constructing a pipeline. I think it needs to be said that the record in an environmental sense of the Pipeline Authority has been a very good one. Today if one flies over the original Moomba to Sydney line it is almost impossible to tell where the line lies in the ground. The reconstruction of the surface has been such that unless one picks an area where the pipeline goes through a forest or something of that nature one would not know that the pipeline was there. Photographs in the sixth report of the Pipeline Authority show in graphic detail that the environmental impact of the laying of the pipeline is virtually negligible. I hope that no problems of an environmental nature will be associated with this project. 
The current cost of liquefied petroleum gas to the consumer in Cootamundra is 22c a therm. It is estimated that in 1 98 1 when the gas from this pipeline will be available the cost of natural gas will be 25c a therm. We have to take into account that with the way in which LPG prices are rising the cost of LPG will probably be far in excess of 25c a therm by 1981. The benefit to Cootamundra will be not so much in cheaper energy but in the fact that once natural gas becomes available the enormous price rises that have been occurring will cease and energy costs will stabilise. I go back to what I said before. The great significance of this lateral project is that it will provide Cootamundra and Wagga with a long term, assured supply of energy at stable prices. The cost of LPG in Sydney, as I understand it, is about 5.6c a therm. In Melbourne it is about 3.6c a therm. The reason for the difference in cost between those figures and the 25c a therm which I mentioned the estimated cost to consumers in Cootamundra is the amortisation effect of the cost of the pipeline itself. Current negotiations indicate that the two councils concerned, those for the Shire of Cootamundra and the City of Wagga Wagga, will have to bear 6 1 per cent of the cost of the pipeline and that that cost will be taken over a period and included in the cost to the consumer. In that way the councils' share of the cost of the pipeline will be recovered. But until negotiations are complete it is not possible to calculate what the final price will be. 
The Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  is making an inspection of the pipeline route next Monday by helicopter. During that inspeciton he will have discussions with the Cootamundra Shire Council at Cootamundra. I expect that the negotiations about the share of the cost of the pipeline which will be met by the two councils will be discussed at that meeting. I thank the Minister for making the inspection and for holding discussions with the members of the Cootamundra Shire Council. 
The pipeline will prove to be an enormous boost both to Cootamundra and to Wagga. It is something which both areas are extremely grateful for. It will provide enormous opportunities for decentralisation and for employment not only during the construction of the line itself but also when the availability of gas will enormously enhance opportunities for industry. I take the view that this pipeline project is the most important event since the coming of the railway to this part of the world. I have enormous confidence that once this stable, long term, reliable source of energy is available we will find industries establishing along the pipeline and its laterals. In much the same way as towns and industries grew up along the railways 100 years ago, development will take place around this source of energy in the decades ahead of us. 
The future is very important. I wish to say a few words about it in the short time available to me. As the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  indicated, it has been proposed for a long time that another lateral ought to be constructed through Cowra, Orange and Bathurst to Lithgow. The cost of that pipeline would be far greater than the cost of the CootamundraWagga lateral because of the terrain through which it must go. It would probably be of the order of $40m at today's prices. There are also proposals to take a lateral from Gunning to Canberra and Queanbeyan. If that lateral is constructed there is the possibility that Yass could be connected by means of a smaller line again. I hope that when that proposal is being discussed the inclusion of Yass will be treated seriously. 
The Australian Gas Light Co. in discussions that I have had with it has displayed a very cooperative attitude. It seems to me that it is very keen to sell gas as and when it can and it is very willing to do what is necessary to sell the gas. I think that what needs to happen- I would like to make a plea to the Government on this point- is that we need to free up the Pipeline Authority's negotiating capacity so that we can get things going a lot more quickly than we have been able to in the past. Section 15 of the Pipeline Authority Amendment Act was amended in 1979 so that every individual approval now needs a specific Act of Parliament, such as the Pipeline Construction (Young to Wagga Wagga) Bill before us at the moment. Although that may not necessarily be a bad thing, I think specific action needs to be taken on behalf of the Government to ensure much easier and more speedy negotiations between the Australian Gas Light Co., which has the contract for the gas, the Pipeline Authority and the people who want to purchase the gas. This would be in Australia's long term interest. In view of the time, I now conclude my remarks. 
Sitting suspended  from  6 to 8  p.m. 
