My question is addressed to the Attorney-General. Has his attention been drawn to the attacks made by the Leader of the Opposition on the integrity of the courts in New Guinea and alleging racial discrimination? In particular, will he examine incidents- 
-I can vouch for the accuracy of what I am saying. 
In particular, will the Minister examine incidents in Rabaul on 8th January last which led the senior magistrate to defend his course publicly against statements arising out of the charges made by the Leader of the Opposition? Finally, will he advise on the propriety of a visiting politician wrongly alleging homicide against a young Australian whom he knew to be on bail and about to stand trial before the Supreme Court? 
Yes,  Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. I have been misrepresented. There are three areas. The Leader of the Opposition stated that he referred to 'cocoa' and not coffee'. The transcript of what he said taken from persons who were present- 
I would like to table the speech that he made, because I believe that it is germane to what has been discussed. But, in particular, it was alleged that I was vouching for a lie when I vouched for the substance of my question. 
 I went to New Guinea- 
I am sorry; 1 did not hear you,  Sir. 
lt has been stated- 
It was. 
I vouch for the accuracy of my statement in the question. My question was based on an accurate statement that the Leader of the Opposition on 8th January last made a public attack on the integrity of the courts in Rabaul and that he wrongly alleged homicide against a young Australian whom he knew to be on bail and about to stand trial before the Supreme Court. There is a tape recording of what the Leader of the Opposition actually said before that Council. We interviewed the ABC and other officers who were present and took from them a transcript of what he said. I would like to read about 6 lines of that transcript. The extract reads: 
One of the m.a. leaders who is well-educated and speaks very good english is now in jail for assaulting a council officer. Pending the m.a. trial he was refused bail. An Administration Officer who accompanied us- 
That is to Keravat gaol -  was engaging in revolver practice during which a child was killed- 
The District Commissioner interjected: Excuse me, sir; that is not quite correct'. The transcript continues: 
Whitlam: You withdraw, or I will remain seated. 
Silence. The District Commissioner said: 'I withdraw, sir, but the child was injured. He was not killed'. The transcript continues: 
Whitlam: I thank you for the correction. Anyway the officer concerned is still at large. 
These and the other comments that I made,  Sir, are  based on the substance of information that we received directly from eye witnesses. 

 Mr WHITLAM (Werriwa- Leader of the Opposition)-  Mr Speaker,  I have been misrepresented in this matter. I refer to a new matter which was introduced concerning the conduct of the District Commissioner. This was not the first time, when we were visiting council chambers at the requests of councils, that District Commissioners interrupted. On this occasion, the District Commissioner had to be put in his place. He has since, for this and earlier incidents, been withdrawn from Rabaul. 

 Dr MACKAY (Evans) -  Mr Speaker,  there is a second point on which I was misrepresented. 
Yes. In the statement just made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  he said that this statement of mine was incorrect because these Mataungans had been refused legal aid whereas the Australians were not. I point to the document of  Mr Quinlevin,  the Senior Magistrate, who makes a special point in his statement from his bench to indicate that every assistance - documentary, legal and every kind of assistance - was given to those who sought to obtain the release of these Mataungans on bail. He states that they then withdrew from this application on their own standing. Does  Mr Whitlam  deny that he said - and it was quoted in every Australian newspaper - that there were glaring race discriminations in law in the Territory? 
Until late in 1969 there was virtually a common or bi-partisan approach to Papua and New Guinea. Of course, there were some disagreements, but as was pointed out by visitors to the Territory recently there were largely broad areas of unanimity. Visiting delegations of members of the Papuan House of Assembly brought equal volumes of welcoming hear, hears from both sides of this House. All that has changed dramatically and I believe tragically. Why? Because the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  went to New Guinea to raise his own political banner. The tragedy was greater because he was not wholly wrong in the statements that he made. Many of his basic assertions, in my view, were right. That is fine. I agree with that. In point of fact, my own Committee, the External Affairs Committee, made even more radical proposals on our return. We would like to see at least some areas of complete indigenous autonomy this year, and we mentioned several in our reports on our return. But what did the Leader of the Opposition do with regard to this business? Right across the Territory he denigrated, insulted and tried to destroy several of the Ministerial members.  His  words were widely interpreted as an attack on Westminster parliamentary democracy. 1 take another example. He deplored the signs of increasing departmental control from Canberra and said that this must be drastically reduced. We agree with this. We agree that there is need for greater local autonomy. But what happened here again? Again and again we found that the Leader of the Opposition insulted, misrepresented and belittled the service of his fellow countrymen in Papua and New Guinea. I want to go on record as admiring the sacrifice, skill, integrity and devotion of the vast bulk of our compatriots in the Administion of the Territory. Of course there have been errors, even some stupid errors; but it is easy to lampoon, for instance, the riot police at Bougainville. But the Leader of the Opposition and the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  have tried to imply that the Rorovana episode was typical of the handling of all Bougainvillians from Panguna to Kieta. It is more true to say that Rorovana was deliberately stirred into revolt by unscrupulous individuals ?o that there was no readiness to negotiate and so obtain greater benefits such as were obtained at Panguna or Lonsiro not far from there, where, I remind the House, one native landholding family concluded an arrangement with the Administration under which it was paid $5,600 for a 42 year lease of 49 acres of land long before the Rorovana flare-up or its happier issue. But all this pales into insignificance, unhappily, beside the tactics and the revelations of the past few days of debate in this House. So I invite the House not to look now at New Guinea as a political football but at the man who I believe tried to make it so. 
On 5th March, during question time, I commenced to ask a question of the Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes).  I asked whether his attention had been drawn to attacks made by the Leader of the Opposition on the integrity of the courts in New Guinea and alleged racial discrimination. At this moment the Leader of the Opposition rose to his feet and burst in, saying that the matters which I purported to state could not be authenticated, namely, that he had made attacks on the integrity of the courts and alleged racial discrimination. The Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  drew attention to the magistrate at Rabaul being forced into replying to one such attack. Then the  Speaker  asked me whether I could vouch for the accuracy of the report; I take it, as I had mentioned no report, he meant the report of an attack on the integrity of the courts in New Guinea alleging racial discrimination. My reply was: 
I can vouch for the accuracy of what I am saying. 
The honourable member for Fremantle, who plays a significant role in this whole business, then burst out with the interjection that I was vouching for a lie, that is, that I was a liar, and -he repeated it later. Why was there this moment of display? Was it a premeditated performance? In my view, it jumped the gun before I had made any statement of details. So let us look closely, for instance, at the honourable member for Fremantle's description, as a lie, of the charge that I had just made and which I swear to this House to be accurately based, namely, that the Leader of the Opposition had carried out an attack on the integrity of the courts in New Guinea by alleging racial discrimination. In a personal explanation later I challenged the Leader of the Opposition to deny that he had personally and publicly attacked the integrity of the New Guinea courts by alleging that there was a policy of 'glaring race discrimination in the law of the Territory'. I asked him to deny that he had made that statement, and he clearly and unambiguously denied to this House that he had made any such attack. I wish to table a Press release from the office of the Leader of the Opposition. Referring to the people of New Guinea, it reads in part: 
They are confused by ambiguous and precipitate action on the part of the authorities. They are motivated perhaps more than any other people to assert the manhood of the people of New Guinea in the face of a policy of glaring race discrimination in law, economic opportunity and wages. 
In short, they are the words I asked about and which the Leader of the Opposition denied he had used. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  no doubt thinking on his feet while trying to conceive of some way in which he could avoid the direct statement which was made by the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Barnes),  diverted into a number of different byways. He set out first to tell us the way in which he came to be speaking to the Gazelle Peninsula Local Government Council's Executive on the night of 8th January. It is quite true that he attended upon this Executive at the request of the Council to meet the Executive. He went there because they wished to ask him whether he would support a request of theirs, which they felt to be absolutely imperative because of the situation on the Gazelle Peninsula created by the attendance at the Mataungan Association meeting by the Leader of the Opposition on the previous afternoon. They presented him with a document, and it was a very respectful document. It read: 

 Sir. this Council is concerned about its position as the lawfully elected governing body of the Gazelle Peninsula. Yesterday at Matupit it was reported that you admired the Mataungan Association, its leaders and its aims. It was reported that you advised the Mataungan members- 
Why was it raised? 
This was the subject raised by the Leader of the Opposition. 
With great respect,  Sir, I  wish this could have been followed right through. There is present in the House an important delegation of members of the Papua and New Guinea House of Assembly. They have listened to a lot of matters that have been presented in what I believe was a distorted and biased way. I want to do nothing more than to reply to the specific matters stated in this debate by honourable members opposite. I will not go further than that and I will endeavour to make my comments brief, if you will permit me. 
The Leader of the Opposition went on, after stating how he came to be at this Council's Executive, to say that he believed that the question before this House today was not whether what he had said there was correct - that the child was killed or that the child was maliciously wounded or that the child was unlawfully wounded; these were the 3 categories he posed as being the possible alternatives. He did not use the words that the wounding had been accidental, that the revolver practice had been carried out negligently and that the child had been wounded completely accidentally. I put to the House the fact that  Mr West  that very day had informed the Leader of the Opposition, before he went to that meeting, of the true facts of this case. What is more, the magistrate has since come out - and to the knowledge of the Leader of the Opposition has since come out - and has said that there is no reason to believe that the wounding was deliberate. 
I will conclude that point very briefly by simply referring to the words of the honourable member for Fremantle. He said that the real point was that this young man was allowed bail and that he was an Australian. He also said that a very different set of circumstances would have prevailed had it been a European child that he wounded. Because of what has transpired today, I believe that he stated this to imply that there was discrimination in the law in Rabaul. That is what has been stated in this chamber this morning. I. refer now not to my own statements but to those of the magistrate when he pointed out the reasons for granting bail to the young Australian. In fairness, I must quote what he said. 
I would respectfully suggest to the honourable member for Fremantle that he should withdraw the imputation of discrimination in the law in New Guinea. 
1 conclude simply by saying that the statement has been made to this House in unequivocal terms - and it is completely untrue - that the District Commissioner of Rabaul,  Mr West,  has been withdrawn because of what the Leader of the Opposition has described as an incident that indicated that he was impudent, that in some way or other he was butting in, and that he was asserting an unreal and undesirable authority because the officer was an expatriate and not an indigene. I refute this suggestion; the Minister has refuted it. The Leader of the Opposition went on further to state that  Mr West  would not be going back to Rabaul when his leave is ended. If that is so, he is better informed than the Minister and better informed than the Administrator. Tt is quite true, as the Leader of ihe Opposition pointed out, that many people have left their jobs in Papua and New Guinea, but never have there been so many people in the Territory getting Saturday's issue of the 'Sydney Morning Herald' as there have been since the Leader of the Opposition went to the Territory and behaved as he did. 

 Mr WHITLAM (Werriwa- Leader of the Opposition) - I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 Dr MACKAY (Evans)- I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I have been completely misrepresented. On page 10 1 of Hansard of last Thursday the Leader of the Opposition is reported as having said:   . . I did give, as an instance of Ihe disquiet which we found in the Gazelle, the contrasting treatment by the courts in 2 cases. The first concerned some indigenes - 
He said that the second case concerned an expatriate. He has taken every opportunity today, as has the honourable member for Fremantle to draw attention to discrimination in the courts. 

 Mr WHITLAM (Werriwa- Leader of the Opposition) - I wish to make a further personal explanation. 

 Dr MACKAY (Evans)  -  I desire to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. I draw attention to Hansard of Sth March and in particular to the following passage: 
Docs  Mr Whitlam- 
I apologise for using his name, but I am reading it exactly -  deny that he said . . . that there was glaring race discrimination in the law in the Territory? 
He replied: 
Yes, I do. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for External Affairs. No doubt the Minister has seen reports that the French Government plans to resume the testing of nuclear weapons in the atmosphere at its test site near Tahiti in the near future. I ask: What is the potential danger of this action to Australia and other countries? Wilt the Minister ensure that the Australian Government's concern at this regrettable step is conveyed to the appropriate French authorities in suitable terms? 
1 address myself,  Mr Speaker,  entirely to the subject before you. I would like to make some observations which bear upon the question as to whether this is a relevant amendment. During the past few years there has been a tendency to widen the scope of amendments in this place. I think even during Budget debates the traditional form of amendment, that is that proposed expenditure be reduced by Si or £1, has given way to a far wider and much more embracing type of amendment. From time to time we have seen amendments moved in this place which have virtually constituted a complete negation or obstruction of the intention of the original motion. This was so last night during the debate on the Bill we were discussing. The motion called for the ratification and approval of a certain measure. The amendment commenced with the words shall not be approved until so and so'. I simply make that point in passing. I believe very wide freedom has been given in the terms and nature of amendments moved in this place. 1 turn now exactly to the matter under scrutiny. A motion was proposed which called for the censure of the Leader of the House  (Mr Snedden)  because of certain things which took place and which gave rise to certain other unhappy events, it is a motion of censure relating to one person. When the facts are analysed we should be able to come to some conclusions as to the guilt or otherwise of the person mentioned in the censure motion. We should be able to draw conclusions as to the provocation or otherwise of that person, as to the types of events that gave rise to it, and as to the reactions of others. Surely all these are relevant circumstances. Having scrutinised all these things, it is now being suggested to you,  Mr Speaker,  that it is not proper that the House should come to the conclusion that in this fracas, this contretemps, there was another party who was more guilty and who, indeed, in an elementary sense, was responsible for what occurred. I suggest,  Sir, that  the purpose of the amendment proposed by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  is to show that there was a more guilty party. 
The Prime Minister suggested that it was not the Leader of the House who was primarily responsible for the deplorable things that occurred last night or early this morning in this place, and that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  should be censured, in the terms of the amendment, for his failure to respond to your request. 

 - Mr Speaker, really I was reading out the amendment proposed by the Prime Minister which is being queried and which is before you at the moment.  the Leader of the Opposition should be censured for his failure to respond to  Mr Speaker's  request that he use his influence with the honourable member for Wills to obey the decision of the House directed to him by  Mr Speaker  and thereby became a party to an attack on the institution of Parliament by members of the Opposition whose disruptive and unruly behaviour was designed to make impossible the conduct of the business of the House. 
It is suggested that this is an improper amendment and that the Leader of the Opposition's behaviour was not a relevant factor or a relevant corollary to the circumstances surrounding the censure motion directed against the Leader of the House. I suggest exactly the opposite,  Mr Speaker.  One should look at the events that gave rise to these circumstances. I suggest there were 2 phases to the incident. Firstly, there were the circumstances leading to the most unhappy display which arose out of a battle of parliamentary tactics. The Leader of the House was faced with an obstructive process that was Initiated because of an election which it is suggested will take place in South Australia. In these circumstances political heat was engendered. 
I will confine myself to a very brief statement which I think is entirely relevant to suggest why this amendment was proposed by the Prime Minister. The circumstances in which the Leader of the House was being criticised were ones of parliamentary encounter. Each opportunity, according to the forms of the House, was being exploited quite properly and reasonably and with all the understanding of parliamentary process by the 2 sides that were engaged in this debate. In the circumstances which arose it was known that there were certain amendments to be moved and certain agreements have been made. 
I will conclude by saying that I believe that the proposed amendment by the Prime Minister is one which is a corollary - the obverse side - of the motion which was proposed by the Opposition. It is totally relevant to the circumstances, it arose out of the circumstances as did the motion, and I believe it is a fitting response of those who have sat and judged the circumstances to come to the conclusion so adequately and clearly and succinctly set forth by the Prime Minister, which will be, I believe, the reaction of the majority of members. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
How many aircraft movements occurred at Kingsford-Smith Airport, Sydney, on each of the 4 days from Saturday, 14th March to Tuesday, 17th March 1970. 
What was the distribution of take-offs and landings on each runway and in each direction. 
What were the prevailing weather conditions at all relevant times, and particularly when there was a heavy density of traffic. 
If it is revealed that a high proportion of movements was from the north for landings and into the north for take-off, even during periods of light or no wind, will the Minister investigate the reasons why the reverse direction could not have been employed to ensure maximum use of Botany Bay rather than densely populated areas. 
Is the Prime Minister aware that when he stated recently that there was no conflict between Liberal Party policy as printed and that of the Government the Deputy Prime Minister gave a loud and resounding 'Hear! hear'? 
I ask the Minister for External Affairs: Is Cambodia a country whose sovereign integrity was solemnly pledged in the Geneva Agreements of 1954 by many countries including mainland China and North Vietnam? What has been the history of regard for Cambodia's neutrality or integrity by the Communist countries in the- last 16 years? What effect has the use of Sihanoukville and sanctuaries in Cambodia had on the allied attempt to bring peace to South Vietnam? 
My question is directed to the Min:ster for External Affairs. Is the Minister aware that Australian Labor Party apologists are now resurrecting propaganda, which was exploded years ago in the teach-ins, to support the Moratorium outlook on the Vietnam war? In particular, will he correct the discredited argument, broadcast again by  Mr Frank  Chamberlain in the past 24 hours, to the effect that the South was to blame for there being no elections in 1956 in Vietnam as required by the Geneva Agreement of 1954 and that this was because the Nationalists knew that the majority of the people would have voted for the Communists? If the Minister feels that a statement here would bc inadequate lo correct such widely disseminated fallacies, will he take steps to let it be known that I and, 1 am sure, all my colleagues are more than ready to debate such matters on radio or television with  Mr Chamberlain  or anyone else on fair and adequate debating terms? 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to address my remarks to that section of the Appropriation and Supply Bills which relates particularly to our Departments of External Affairs and Defence. I wish to relate my remarks especially to those events which are taking place in this nation at the present moment of which we are well aware because of the mammoth amount of publicity and the tremendously costly activity which has gone into producing what is to be the effect of the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign in the next few days. 
Now, the word 'moratorium' has been used in various and a varied number of ways. I intend to refer first of all to its meaning 'to call a halt to"'. While the Moratorium to be held in the capital cities tomorrow and subsequent days refers to a suggestion that we should call a halt to meeting our obligations to our neighbours and to nations under attack, that we should withdraw our forces from Vietnam and that we should come back to the boundaries of Australia and mind our own business - this is a meaning that is being implied by the exponents of this philosophy - I, too, believe that we need a moratorium in Australia in the sense of calling a halt to something.  1  see taking place around us a disastrous polarisation or an attempt at polarising and dividing and lining up the nation into opposing warring factions. An attempt is being made all the time to line up the Australian people into intransigent camps beyond change or amendment. The very extravagance of the propaganda, or the language and the suggestions that are continually being made is in line with the traditional approach of the Communists to foment every grievance, to sharpen the class struggle, and from our school children to our trade unions and from parliament itself to the people there goes out this propaganda embodying the suggestion of the dividing and sharpening of the differences that will lead to this polarisation that  1  deplore. 
The seeds of national strife and sectional strife are beginning to bloom. When these things occur inside a nation, tragedies can emerge. We have seen tragedy inside the United States of America. We can see the preparations being made for this very same kind of emotional explosion, this kind of irresponsible mass action, which can give rise only to tragedy as it is augmented. There is, of course, on the other side of this question the temptation to those of us who are in politics to exploit such a situation. It would be too easy and too dangerous if we were simply to take the view of trying to alienate from ourselves any sense of responsibility or to point the hand at the Opposition and say that 'there lie all those forces which are giving rise to such division'. This is a political temptation and I believe that we must face it honestly. 
Let us look at the paradox that is involved in this current situation. The paradox for me is this: I know many members of the Australian Labor Parly and many men particularly in the trade union movement who not only know Communism well but also hate Communism. They have suffered under Communism. They have seen what it has done to them, to their families and to their jobs. They are men whom I like and men whom I trust. But only disaster can follow a programme where men like these are continually and increasingly either being found to be expendable or are forced into positions where they have to go along with the latest Communist offensive. 
Unhappily, today, in the Australian Labor Party, there are increasing signs of the fundamental Marx-Leninist objective; the destruction of parliamentary democracy and the rule of law. Lenin was absolutely explicit on this point. Lenin wrote - and I quote his words exactly - that: 
While the workers are building up the instruments of their power in the form of Soviets, it follows that the workers must prepare - ideal 06,cally, politically and technically- for the struggle of the Soviets against parliament, for the dispersal of parliament by the Soviets. But it does nol follow that this dispersal is hindered, or is nol facilitated by the presence of a Soviet opposition within the counter-revolutiona ry parliament. 
As one reads the words of Lenin, one looks with some dismay at the bloom of black badges of the Moratorium that have appeared on the lapels of honourable members opposite. ( will discuss (he Moratorium to which they refer in a moment. But let mc make the general point that month after month now we see a drift in our political life in Australia into the polarisation that I deplore so that it is virtually certain that every move that the Government makes at this moment or in the future against the activities of Communists in their designs on Australia or in this direction immediately will be attacked by the Opposition; immediately the word 'Communist' is mooted, abuse follows with laughing, scorn and the suggestion of kicking the can. Is this not what Lenin meant? 
Let me continue the quotation: 
The experience of many, if not all revolutions shows how very useful during a revolution is the combination of mass action outside the reactionary parliament wilh an opposition sympathetic to (or better still, directly supporting) the revolution inside it. 
These are the words of Lenin for his concept of the way in which revolution can be extended. Indeed, Lenin wrote to a young enthusiast from Glasgow who suggested that good revolutionaries should have nothing to do with such reactionary things as parliaments. Lenin wrote to this young man and said. 
The writer of the letter is perfectly clear in the point that only workers' Soviets, and not parliament, can be the instrument whereby the aims of the proletariat will be achieved . . . but the writer of the letter does not even ask, it does not occur to him to ask, whether it is possible to bring about the victory of the Soviets over parliament, without getting pro-Soviet politicians into parliament, without disintegrating parliament from within, without working within parliament for the success of the Soviets in their forthcoming task of dispersing parliament. 
I believe that this is the incipient tragedy in a situation that sees this far advanced, sharpening of the class struggle and of the suggestion that between the 2 Parties - the alternative Government and the Government - there is this wide gulf of allegiance. 
Now, I have called this a tragedy - and it is. But can it be averted? Even if it were to cost us on this side of the Parliament office in government - I speak purely for myself - I believe that it would be worth while to lose office if we could see emerge a strongly anti-Communist Labor Party prepared to have a bi-partisan approach once more on the vital issues which affect Australia's security. Let me repeat that. For me personally, 1 believe that it would be worth while for us even to lose office if in doing so we were sure that there would emerge a strongly anti-Communist Labor Party prepared to have a bi-partisan approach once more on the vital issues that affect Australia's security. 
The issues that Vietnam has assumed in this nation, the issue of this Indo-Chinese peninsula, are not the cause but have become the excuse, the emotive source and the pretext for Communist action in Australia. Others are ready to hand if these issues were to pass out of the pages of history - everything from racism to merino rams. But Vietnam today is a global issue. It is being used across the world with tremendous emotion because of the television cameras, the reporters, and the propaganda which is poured out of this unhappy disorder in IndoChina. Even in Scandinavia the riots go on in the universities, on the campuses and in the streets. Why on earth has this occurred in Norway and Sweden if it is not part of a world-wide Communist offensive against the non-Communist world? 
Today, across Australia, certain people are at war against our society. Does anyone deny that these people are inside Australia and at war against Australian society? Does anyone deny what the Communists themselves claim? If they are here, what are they doing? Can we put the spotlight on the particular situation or the particular things that the Communists themselves are setting out to do? How do they work? 
Well, to me, that too is quite clear. They work for the most part quite openly. In January of 1967, an Australia Day conference was held in Sydney where a blueprint was laid down for the next stage of Communist preparation for this kind of activity that we see in our midst today. High up among the items on this blueprint was the preparation of school children and students - both at high schools and in universities - for the assault of the Communist propaganda. Now, as we come to the day of the Moratorium, we see how far they have progressed in those  2i  years. Today there is a well set up organisation within our schools. 'Tabloid Underground', to quote one of the productions, is being disseminated among our children. What kind of literature is going out to our high schools? Let me quote a small extract from a recent issue of 'Tabloid Underground*, referring to the Moratorium. It talks, firstly, about Australia being divided into 2 classes - the boss class and the working class - and says: 
Analyse just about any of the big issues - Vietnam, the right to strike, education, law and order - and it boils down to a class question, meaning that is a conflict as to whose interests should come first - the bosses or the working class. 
The reason why bosses are in this position  is  that Australia is virtually a bosses dictatorship- 
And so on and so on. It finishes up: 
The boss class never have and never  will  peacefully hand over their wealth to the working class. 
So the solution it proposes is: 
Bosses have got guns but they haven't got the numbers. We believe that the working people can and one day they will, in alliance with progressive students and other sections of the population, overthrow capitalism, kick out the bosses, seize the wealth that is rightfully theirs and establish Socialism. 
That is the kind of propaganda - the kind of bilge - that is being disseminated throughout our schools. It is a direct result of this preparation that was made some 2 years earlier. I could go on and refer to training camps for young guerillas up in the Blue Mountains- - the kind of places where photographs of Lenin, Mao Tse-tung and Ho Chi Minh hold places of honour in the galleries. 
But what is the basic strategy?  It  is one of deliberate and skilful distortion and fraudulent pseudo-authenticity in their literature. 
A plethora of books has been printed about the Vietnam campaign. We have found authors of all kinds and description distributing a common line, which goes something like this: First, Vietnam was divided by the Geneva Agreements temporarily pending free elections in  1956.  We all agree on that. But then this literature - this is from universities, professors, bishops, parsons, parliamentarians and others - goes on and makes the point that South Vietnam was the first to break these Agreements. It says that South Vietnam broke the Agreements by refusing to hold elections and by introducing foreign troops from the United States of America. The literature goes on to say that the majority of people in Vietnam wanted Communist rule but that the United States espoused nationalistic dictators and imposed another type of regime against the people's will. From that the literature concludes that the Vietcong were those who, in the South, refused to accept this imposed will and are  a  genuine opposition from within and that therefore the war is really a civil war. The literature claims that the International Control Commission apportioned the greater amount of blame to the South, and that the United States and its allies have been by far the greater transgressors in the use of terror and in attacks on the civilian population. 
Honourable members opposite say: 'Hear, hear'. I take it that that is a fair statement of the kind of picture that has been painted for the people of Australia. I believe that it is a fundamentally false picture. It can be proved to be false, not from my opinion, not from American documents or Australian documents, but simply by systematically taking the very authors that these people claim to be accurate and reliable and, by quoting chapter and verse, proving that this kind of thing is fomented nonsense. 
If I believe what I have just read out to be true - if I believed the vast majority of those claims to be true - I would join the Moratorium. I not only believe them to be false, however, but I go even further and say that they have been fraudulently made and documented and sold to tens of thousands of Australian people in publications which all too often bear the imprimatur of leading clergymen, parliamentarians, professors, professional men and others who ought to occupy positions of responsibility and trust. Let me illustrate. I have been claiming a lot; so let me give a concrete example. The great majority of these antiGovernment booklets that have appeared on Vietnam use a very telling witness. They accuse the South of obstructing the holding of elections in  1956.  They claim that the government of South Vietnam knew that if it dared to hold such elections then the vote for a Communist country under the leadership of Ho Chi Minh would be overwhelming. Their key witness, the man they quote, is General Eisenhower, and they say that his statement was something like this: 
I have never met a person knowledgeable on Indo-China who did not agree that had elections been held probably 80% of the population would have voted for the Communist Ho Chi Minh. 
That is the quotation made by not one but many of these booklets, indeed the majority of them and all attacking the Government's position. It has been more than enough for thousands of Australians. It has been quoted from Bennelong to Burke, but is it what Ike said? 
Listen to the exact truth and see how these academics, clerics and the like have misled the nation. What did Eisenhower say? I shall leave out the exaggerations by people such as  Mr Gregory  Clark who first wrote for the 'Australian' and then, for the University of New South Wales Study Group, the book 'Vietnam and Australia'. He just added little bits. The reference to 80% voting for the Communists was 'possibly 80%' in the first issue, 'probably 80%' in the next issue and in the last article he wrote it was 'at least 80%'. Leaving that to one side and regarding it as just enthusiasm, let us look at two vital omissions from what Ike actually said. He said: 1 have never met a person knowledgeable on Indo-China who did not agree that had elections been held as of the time of fighting- 
These last words were omitted by all writers - possibly R0% of the population would have voted for the Communist Ho Chi Minh rather than the Chief of Slate Bao Dai. 
Again, the last phrase was omitted by them all. What does this mean? It means first of all that 'as of the time of fighting' referred to the time when Ho Chi Minh was the leader of the national cause of the Vietminh. It was prior to 1954 that Bao Dai, the feudal emperor and puppet of the French, was in control. He was a man very much despised by the entire nationalist cause. It is, of course, true that in those days when the Vietnamese people were united in a nationalist cause 80% of the people would have preferred their leader to the puppet emperor Bao Dai. Rather than vote for Bao Dai, 80% probably would have voted for the Communist Ho Chi Minh, as Eisenhower expressed it. 
Surely what has been written is a telling piece of misrepresentation. But the evidence has to be viewed in the way in which this misrepresentation emerged, because it has been taken up by the opponents of the Government's position and it is intended that the reader should imply that the particular quotation referred to the elections to be held in 1956 under the Geneva Accords. The evidence, of course, is quite different, because by this time Ho Chi Minh was nothing like the popular leader that he had been before the fall of Dien Bien Phu. By this time different events had taken place in the North. Firstly, when the country was divided by the Geneva Agreement and the International Control Commission into North and South Vietnam nearly 1 million people chose to leave Ho Chi Minh's sanctuary to go to Saigon rather than live under that regime, compared with fewer than 200,000, most of whom were expatriated to the North because of the terms and conditions of the division. There was a mass exodus away from Ho Chi Minh's paradise. And what a paradise it proved to be on the Communist's own documentation, because this man soon emerged - not as the benign Uncle Ho, the father of the Vietnamese revolution, but as the hard line MaoistMarxist - to impose on the North the kind of conditions that he had seen taking place in the Chinese revolution. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting for dinner I was charging that the literature that has poured out in pamphlet and booklet form against our stand in Vietnam contains a large number of deliberate falsifications. I was giving evidence of this and showing the way in which quotations from no less a person than General Eisenhower have been subjected to editing and annotation which has completely changed the meaning of the statement, the time in history to which it referred, and the facts on which it was based. The General was alleged to have staled that the majority of persons in North Vietnam would have chosen to vote for Ho Chi Minh in 1956 had only those elections been held that were foreshadowed by the 1954 Geneva Accords. 
However, as I said earlier, the General was referring to a time when the whole nation was fighting against the French and when the puppet Emperor Bao Dai was the unpopular national leader. Ho Chi Minh, in the time that followed between the partition of Vietnam and the proposed time for the elections in 1956 had indeed perpetrated in North Vietnam an excessive zeal as a Maoist Communist that brought the whole party into revolt. Let me quote 1 or 2 witnesses. Bernard Fall, who is eagerly quoted by many who oppose the Government's attitude on Vietnam, wrote in an article 'Problems of Communism' published in July-August 1965 the following passage which appears on page 18: 
Exact figures remain unavailable, but the number of peasants killed during the North Vietnamese land reform' drives from 1954 to 1956 is variously estimated at between 50,000 and 100,000. 
Hoang Van Chi wrote in his book 'From Colonialism to Communism' the following passage which appears on page 211: 
Evidently, both Ho and Mao anticipated a strong public reaction against their land Reform policy and concluded that only a deliberate excess of terror would annihilate that reaction . . . the party recommended an excess of violence  . . Only when the campaign was all over did it express regret for its failure to honour this or that promise. 
The following passage appears in that same book on page 166: 
The total  number  of victims in this campaign has never been made public, but if we are to believe M. Gerard Tongas, a French professor who remained in Hanoi up to 1959, and who claims to have accurate information, this indescribable butchery resulted in one hundred thousand deaths. 
The same authors pointed out that the persons butchered were not by any means real landlords but were even elected as such from members of the Lao-Dong or Communist Peoples Party in that area because it was necessary to go through the motions of the same kind of annihilation of landlords as had been seen in China. Time prevents my going on further to demonstrate the way in which Ho Chi Minh had fallen from grace and how the people were disillusioned about his purposes and so the great numbers fled to the south. There is no further time for an analysis of that hoax on the Australian people, but let me quote 1 further classic case. T refer to the falsified horrific colour photographs of maimed children. In particular I refer to the document 'The Children of Vietnam', a 'Ramparts' special edition, frequently distributed over the signature of clergymen and in which totally dishonest photographs of children who are alleged to bc the victims of American atrocities are reproduced. The Department of External Affairs and others have analysed the evidence and traced the photographs to their origin. Perhaps it would be as well for me to quote the findings of the Department on this issue. One photograph of an alleged victim of US brutality is described in this way: 
The background note on the original photograph was 'Two orphan children enjoy a meal of bulgar wheat and rice at the National Orphanage 10 miles south of Saigon. The boy has been at the orphanage but a short time. The Viet Cong had thrown a hand grenade into the bus in which he was riding with his mother and father. Both parents were killed while the boy suffered shrapnel wounds in the head.' 
Yet the publication alleged the exact opposite. This falsification of evidence has been perpetrated on the Australian public all too often. So one could go on producing evidence after evidence. But tomorrow there is to be a Moratorium. It is feared that there will be violence. Why should there be violence, I am asked, when people such as the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  say: 'Please do not let us have violence. Let us just create all the conditions of violence, all the emotional stirring up, and all the means whereby there will be a reaction by the people against the usurpation of their rights, and if there is any violence blame the police and call them Fascist pigs.' 
I remember seeing on television the Reverend Ted Noffs of the Wayside Chapel speaking to university students in Sydney before they went on their most violent crusade of last year. He spoke to them in these terms: 'I appeal to you young people - and my appeal may sound strange in the light of what you are planning to do this afternoon - but I appeal to you to go out and be more radical in your behaviour than you have ever been in your lives before. Only thus will we draw attention to this iniquitous war and this iniquitous legislation.' This is the kind of stirring up that is going on. Our young people are being prodded into situations where their emotions will be aroused, where violence must ensue, and where there is inevitably a clash with law and order or with ordinary decent citizens who do not want to see their rights usurped. 
An advertisement appeared in the national Press today. It stated over a list of signatories: 'The time for talking is past'. Mark the words: 'We must do more than merely voice our dissent. Join in action to end the war'. What does this mean? Does it mean the same thing as those writers who told the children in the State secondary school: The bosses have guns. They are the ones who are in control, and they will not give away their control peacefully. Let us get stuck into it and see that the ordinary people take control.' What does it mean if it does not mean violent revolution? 
Who is organising this Moratorium? The speakers put down for the Yarra Bank in Melbourne tomorrow include Lawrie 
Carmichael. I do not have to state that man's position in the national executive of the Communist Party. Also to speak is Michael Hyde from the Monash Labor Club. 1 wish I had time to quote from that club's effusions in print and to demonstrate how it has called on people for violence, and achieved it. At the present moment persons who are on the executive of the Moratorium Committee are in gaol because of violence stimulated by articles published in the Monash Labor Club's journal. The honourable member for Lalor also stands amongst the people who will speak. I ask: ls it not true that a member of the secretariat of this Vietnam Moratorium Campaign is currently awaiting trial on criminal charges for damaging windows in public and company offices in Melbourne?  His  name is Edward James Blume-Poulton. He and others carried out orders that were given to what is called the 'Australian Liberation Army'. These are frightening terms. We have heard them before. Who and what is it liberating in Australia? A clear call has been made to ordinary persons to regard themselves as the oppressed, to sharpen the class struggle, to ferment other grievances, thus leading people into a violent revolution. 
I could go on. but I must close by stating that I believe the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign is an imported tactic designed to violate the processes of Parliamentary democracy by the use of sectional pressures of disruption and threats of force. It pays no regard to the interests of Australia's security or the freedom of small' countries under bitter attack in Indo-China. It is clearly intended to reinforce the world wide Communist offensive against the West. We on this side of the House have no territorial claims in Indo-China. We seek no bases. We seek only the freedom of these people so that they can stand free and determine their own future. It is the expressed intention of Australia's enemies to bring about increasing national crises so that the Government, the law and the police will be brought under attack and conditions of anarchy will prevail1. We urge all true Australians to do all in their power to ensure that the Moratorium does not succeed, that the areas of its activities are not attended, and that we give as little comfort and aid to our enemies as possible. 
Can the Prime Minister give some guidance to the House on the amount of time and attention required of senior departmental officers in answering questions on notice? ls the Prime Minister aware that thus far in this session some 1.060 questions have appeared on notice, often in dozens at a time from the Leader of the Opposition and senior members of the Opposition? Would it be possible to frustrate the work of Government departments if all these questions were to be treated with serious priority? Finally, could this tactic of the Opposition deny other honourable members access to information they may require urgently? . 
On 31st October last a quotation appeared in the national Press- 
The right honourable member for Melbourne has arrived at last. As 1 was saying when the honourable member interjected, having just arrived, I made a statement on 31st October last at the time when the then Minister for National Development, the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn),  had indicated what was to me a staggering bombshell regarding his political future. L was quoted in the Press as having said this: 
When  a  man of the integrity and experience of  Mr Fairbairn  makes such a statement it commands the attention and respect of the whole Party. 
I believe what I said then to be true now. The honourable member for Farrer is a man of great integrity. He is a person of great experience. 1 believe that what I have said will bear any scrutiny if one considers the debate which has been going on in this House for the last few hours and the comments and discussions that have occurred in the last few days. Nevertheless, what others on this side of the House have said also indicates that the honourable member for Chisholm  (Sir Wilfrid Kent Hughes)  was correct in saying that there is a possibility of considerable difference of opinion regarding the same circumstances and the same words. What has been said about the honourable member for Farrer I believe can be said across the whole nation with regard to the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr N. H. Bowen). His  integrity is beyond dispute. He is a trained Queen's Counsel who was present at these same meetings and who has made statements to this House that were, without any kind of equivocation or desire to hide behind words, statements coming straight from his own depth of experience. 
He said that as one who had been present at these meetings he had read and re-read the records with anxious care - not anxious in the petty way that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  suggested, that is anxious to find excuses, but anxious to discover whether, in the words that the honourable member for Farrer was using, there was not an interpretation that thus far had escaped him.  His  conclusion was: I cannot recall anything or find anything in the records to justify changing my opinion that no kind of commitment had been entered into on behalf of the Commonwealth by the then Minister for National Development that would justify the kind of censure motion that stands before us today in the name of the Opposition. 
We have listened to some very intelligent and very capable debating and we have listened also to some arrant nonsense. The last speech that was heard from the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  made us aware of the deep concern that he has at the flight of the Government, of this once great Party, as he put it. Personally, however, I would prefer his anger, vituperation and scorn to the broad grins of bis bereavement, the sally of his sorrows and the giggles of his grief. So let us get back to the facts that have been put before us in this argument. First of all the Leader of the Opposition came in and tried to make a debating point without mentioning dates, saying that an undertaking had been entered into. He quoted words from the minutes of a meeting to indicate that the then Minister for National Development had undertaken to the State Ministers that there would be consultations before this legislation was brought down. He did not mention that the date of that meeting was 3rd March last year. He said that there was an undertaking in the words that he read. But as one studies the circumstances that follow this, not only were there consultations that did take place discharging such an undertaking subsequently, but also there was some correspondence between the Minister and the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton).  The correspondence that took place several months - 4 months - later was to do with this particular point of whether or not the Minister in subsequent discussions should enter into any kind of undertaking. The Prime Minister urged that the Minister, if at all possible, should avoid doing so. 
If the circumstances are these, how could it possibly be, if there was a binding undertaking entered into on 3rd March that was not to be discharged by the meeting about to take place, that the Minister was under any conception or misconception that in going to this meeting he was going there to avoid entering into any kind of commitment? It is my suggestion that he went to that meeting knowing perfectly well what the Prime Minister required, what the desire of the Leader of the Government was, and in this meeting he saw no reason whatever to inform the others that anything that had been said at the meeting of 3rd March was now to be vetoed or abrogated. The reason was, I believe, that he did not at that time understand there to be this continuing commitment that before the legislation was brought down there would be fundamental rediscussion of certain issues. That certain issues would be discussed it is admitted was agreed and they were actually subsequently discussed and this particular commitment was discharged. So I suggest that if the Leader of the Opposition had made the dates clear the point that he brings up. which in his presentation was one of his major issues, would indeed have disappeared. 
We then heard from the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor).  He told us that 2 of the bench of 5 of the High Court made comments at the time of a judgment in the case of Bonser v. La Macchia. This judgment did not extend to the entire court. Three of the judges did not comment but the Chief Judge did. He indicated that in his opinion the Commonwealth had sovereignty from the low water mark out to the end of (he continental shelf. The argument that is brought forward by the honourable member for Cunningham is that the Chief Judge having thus spoken a new factor now emerges. The honourable member concludes that thus there had to be negotiations. 1 suggest that while the honourable member may come to such a conclusion - and he is skilled in these matters - it is equally possible for others to come to a very different conclusion. 
I suggest that it is possible that the Chief Judge having said such things and in the midst of all these discussions between the Commonwealth and the States, that is that in his opinion and in the opinion of one of his brother judges the Commonwealth had sovereignty from everything below the low water mark, this brought a new dimension into this matter. This could equally well have meant that the discussions or negotiations - to use the honourable member's words - ought to halt at that point because there had now to be another decision made, a decision which the Commonwealth is seeking in this legislation, the final and irrevocable decision to be made by the whole bench of the High Court which is the supreme authority to determine who has the sovereignty over these territorial waters. So I suggest that there is indeed a different interpretation possible on this issue from that arrived at by the honourable member for Cunningham. 
I do not want to take much more time in this debate but I must say one or two things. I believe that there are 2 sets of issues. Firstly, there are the issues of what was done in the circumstances, and - equally important in my book - how these things were done. In terms of what was done, I have presented in the last few minutes my view that the Commonwealth is under an obligation to have the High Court decide the sovereignty over this area. I believe it is proper in so proceeding. Personally I would like to have seen this achieved in harmony and goodwill with the States, with perhaps the Commonwealth paying the expenses of the court case because it is not possible under our Constitution, as I understand it, for there to be any kind of hypothetical judgment or hypothetical case presented for judgment by the High Court, and some kind of actual litigation must proceed. I would like to have seen every bit of skill brought to bear on the situation to bring about an amicable approach whereby the Commonwealth and the States would have agreed not to go as belligerent contenders but as honest seekers after the actuality. I am very sorry that it was not done in this way. Of course, these 2 issues are now past but there are other sets of issues. 
The other matters we are discussing today also fall under 2 heads. There is first what the Government understood to be taking place. There is, as I see it, a distinct case to be made that in the mind of the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton),  as he presented the matter to us today, there was his own consistent attitude through it all. Let us consider the circumstances. A Prime Minister is always busy with all the affairs of a vast number of portfolios. This was particularly so because of the advent of the elections and the political upheaval of the time. It is quite conceivable and I am going to give the Prime Minister the benefit of any doubt of this situation anyway. In this case he gave his instructions to the Minister for National Development to go as hard as he possibly could to avoid making commitments. He expected that this would be the situation - the actuality. He was informed of nothing to the contrary and indeed any ordinary examination of the transcripts reveal nothing to the contrary. So there is every justification in my mind for the Prime Minister to retain the attitude that no commitment had been entered into. 
But on the other hand, of course, there is the position of the State Mines Ministers. The Australian Minerals Council at that time could have had a different understanding of the question, from the tone of conversations, the kind of asides that were made and the state of mind or, if you like, the atmosphere of the meeting. But, of course, one has to take into account the fact that the Minister for Education and Science was present at the meeting. He is a trained counsel, and he has informed this House - and I believe with great certainty and sincerity - that the meeting did not arrive at any such conclusion. But, nevertheless, there were also many incentives for the State Mines Ministers and their advisers to be of one mind, for their being interested parties in this whole affair. They were, indeed, fighting together for a status quo that was under challenge. They were fighting together for the whole quest:on of sovereignty which overlay the situation. Therefore, I believe that there is every reason to accept the view that there could be honest differences of opinion, and this is how I personally interpret the question. 
One or two others matters have been brought up by way of criticism, concerning the method and the timing of this matter. For instance, it has been stated that there was no issue of urgency, so why could nol the question have waited for some months when the new government was in office and the whole thing could be negotiated at a more leisurely pace. Do not let us forget the circumstances applying in Australia at that time. There was a mineral boom. Company after company was beginning to talk about off-shore exploration. Advances had been made in technology in this field. Articles had been written and experiments had been made, for example, of actually bulldozing with diesel power under the waters of the continental shelf. Advances had been made in off-shore drilling and off-shore seismic and geophysical work. The situation was developing rapidly, and indeed the minutes of the meeting indicate that those taking part in the discussion expected increasing numbers of applications to be made for permits to explore for minerals off-shore. So there was a pressure of time to arrive at a conclusion. I set aside, therefore, the criticism that there was no need to proceed with expediency in this situation. 
But one of the areas where criticism is valid and is also, I believe, possible of exaggeration is in the way in which each individual member of the Minerals Council was informed of the Government's decision. There has been criticism of the Prime Minister's statement that each individual member had been informed of the decision prior to the Governor-General's Speech. We are told that a telegram was sent to each member of the Council on the day before the Government's decision was announced. Was the receipt or non-receipt of that telegram a matter of great moment or consideration? In some circumstances in business affairs today the evidence that something has been posted is held to be evidence of the notice having been properly given. In other cases receipt of a registered letter is held to be proof of delivery. But what about a Minister of State? Surely a Minister of State, by virtue of his office, his equipment, his whole staff and all the rest, is the kind of person for whom a telegram sent to his official office should be adequate notice 
Then, of course, there is criticism of the fact that a telegram was sent only the day before the decision was announced. This criticism is on stronger ground, but do not let us forget that this happened at an unusual time. It was a time of election. It was a time of the formation of a new Government. It was a time of considerable political stress. I believe that the more relevant question is: If there had been earlier notice, would it have achieved any purpose whatsoever? I think it was known that the matter was already decided, and that there was indeed to be a presentation of legislation on this point. It was not a matter therefore where there was the possibility of further negotiations. An offer had been made and then there was a counter offer, but the counter offer was rejected. It was then simply a matter of courtesy to inform the State Ministers prior to their hearing it from the official source of the Attorney-General's Speech. I think this was discharged, although personally, in hindsight, one would have wished it to be done perhaps a little more graciously, a little earlier. 
Much has been made about discussions between the Commonwealth and the States on the 3-mile limit, the authority beyond the 3-mile limit and the entire continental shelf below the low water mark. How vital is this consideration? There was to be a new type of legislation for minerals as distinct from petroleum. Sovereignty had been asserted by the Commonwealth over part of the shelf in any case. There was no question in this whole business - I will conclude on this point because I want to stress it - of the Commonwealth depriving the States of their right to administer the whole of the continental shelf as always. There was no question of the Commonwealth depriving the States of their right to collect royalties as always. What then was at stake? The only issue in the final result was that of sovereignty over the first 3 miles. This was the legal issue. It was not in the matter of administration or income; it was a matter which concerned only ultimate legal sovereignty. 
I conclude by saying that this matter has not achieved the great storm that many of our opponents would like to have seen in perspective and in proportion. It has been opposed by the States for reasons that are easy to understand. The States, as we all know in these days of an advancing and growing Australia, with tremendous developments taking place in this very field of mineral development, have deep emotional feelings with regard to their own sovereignty. But my proposal is that there should be a joint approach to this litigation. I think we should have done this before. I hope the Commonwealth will see its way clear to establish an inquiry into what royalties the States might have expected and their right to administer them, so as to guarantee an economic return to the States. All this should take place within certain natural and agreed guidelines that have the national interest as a whole at heart. This amendment expressing want of confidence in the Government is totally unjustified. While 1 continue to have deep respect for, and I hope a continuing friendship with, the honourable member for Farrer, on this occasion I know that he will not resent the fact that we disagree over interpretation. 
Is the Minister for External Affairs aware that statements have been made by diplomatic representatives in Australia that if Cambodia and Laos could be effectively neutralised it would be highly possible that our troops could return home to Australia in a very few months? Was the Djakarta conference a move in this direction towards success in bringing neutrality to those countries? If it was a success as a conference, could the Minister indicate what moves have emerged from it? Have any follow-up moves been made as yet to implement the objectives of that conference? 
I. ask the PostmasterGeneral: ls this House to understand from his reply to the question asked by the honourable member for Chisholm that the Government is not prepared to take any steps to insist that the Australian Broadcasting Commission provide a balance against obvious political bias and propagandist activities? Will the Minister provide the House with transcripts of the broadcast statements made by  Dr Han  Suyin, especially her 'Guest of Honour' programme and any others denigrating United Nations action in Korea and justifying Chinese aggression in Tibet and against India? 

 - Mr Speaker, it has been very interesting indeed-- 
Motion (by  Mr Giles)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
A few moments ago there were some comments to the effect that it was an act when 1 stood up to speak, that it was a prearranged deal and that I was not intended to make a speech at all. That is completely untrue. I have the notes of my speech and if honourable members opposite really want to hear it I shall deliver it now in the debate on the adjournment. However, let me say that I believe that there has been an act tonight and that it has been put on in the last few minutes. When the debate began on the second reading of the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation Bill the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart),  who led for the Opposition, made the point that the Opposition was not opposing the Bill but was going to move certain amendments on the second reading motion. I had discussed this matter before with the Whip and had said that if the Opposition was not going to oppose the Bill I would want to make a few comments, that I would speak for a short time so that we could speed up the proceedings on a Bill such as this so that we could get to the amendments that the Opposition wanted to move. This would enable us to get through during this week such vital issues as a Bill relating to penal clauses of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, or civilian alternatives for national service, things which I imagine we all want to talk about but which we cannot all talk about if we are going to get through this week, next week, sometime or never. 
It is the Government's business to bring down the legislation and to see that it gets through in the time available. In those circumstances I accepted the movement of the gag and voted with the Government, whose job it is to steer the legislation through - particularly as the honourable member who led for the Opposition had made the point that the Opposition did not see any reason to oppose the Bill. I believe, therefore, that what we have been listening to in the last few minutes has been utter humbug. 
Does the Prime Minister agree that the fall of Cambodia to the Communists would mean the end of free Laos and gravely threaten South Vietnam? Does he agree that, as our recent parliamentary delegation established, the present offensive began with the unprovoked North Vietnamese aggression at least a month before South Vietnamese and United States forces entered the sanctuary areas? As the Djakarta Conference has failed to gain support from the Communists, will the Prime Minister now take urgent steps to confer with our allies, especially the countries of the region, with a view to encouraging the formation of a united front in Indo-China, including Thailand? Finally, if such an alliance can emerge will the Prime Minister pledge increased economic and material aid from Australia to enable these nations who already have the manpower but lack the sinews of war to defend their freedom? 
Whilst one could perhaps sympathise with the intentions of the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating),  nevertheless quite a number of the facts that he adduced were not strictly accurate. The honourable member claimed that a small minority of persons or companies controlled the communications network in Australia, particularly television. Among other things, he referred to the radio station 4BH. which he said was sold to John Fairfax and Sons Ltd, or a Fairfax-owned subsidiary or something of this kind. Actually, this station was sold not to John Fairfax and Sons Ltd but to a group of companies each of which holds a percentage interest in the total transaction which is completely in conformity with the Broadcasting and Television Act. The honourable member also said that the Melbourne 'Herald' controls 4 television stations. 1 think it will be found on examination that his statement is completely out of keeping with the facts. It appears that the honourable member feels that something has been done which is contrary to the provisions of the Act. This is a serious charge which ought to receive greater scrutiny than the scrutiny I can give it this afternoon because there are other things which also claim my attention. A Bill such as the Broadcasting and Television Bill carries overtones which reflect the importance of this tremendous field of modern mass communications - a field in which a revolution is only beginning to be felt in Australia. Looking back I can remember the days of my youth when the first wireless sets were introduced into my area. I remember the excitement in the street in which I lived when a neighbour obtained a set with its plethora of lighted valves. We listened to its horned  speaker  in wonder. 
As we look ahead from those days to the days of the pocket size transistor and tomorrow to colour television in Australia, to pocket television, to very mobile telecommunications in the keeping of the individual, it is undoubtedly true that a tremendous revolution in this whole field is only beginning. As one looks at the field one must .be aware that this revolution means that a completely different base to society is beginning to develop - that there are new powers for the manipulation of society; that there is a sophistication in terms of the presentation of material over the media which has to be scrutinised and understood not only by governments, educators and those who seek to benefit financially or commercially from these things but primarily by the great mass of people who are so often the victims of mass communications. 
Notwithstanding the remarks of the honourable member for Blaxland. I believe that in Australia we have been remarkably well served by the mass media. This does not mean that dangers are not emerging - dangers of the kind referred to by the honourable member. There is a danger that the control of the material which is broadcast will be centralised in too few hands. This comes about not necessarily because of the organic connection between these organisations but because of commercial connections, because of the financial considerations which limit the multiplicity of channels and the multiplicity of available material. As one travels in South East Asia and sees the vast mass housing facilities being created in many areas, each apartment, with its same little neon light outside, its same little television aerial above. its same television set inside and the same programme being televised to the same kind of people, one begins to experience something of the horror of the George Orwell nightmare. The whole concept of television and radio control of the mass, bringing about a mass response, fills one, particularly if he values freedom of initiative and variety, with a good deal of horror. 
Nevertheless, there are other fields more precisely related to the Australian scene which anyone giving consideration to the amendment of an Act such as the Broadcasting and Television Act must have squarely before him if he is properly to discharge his duty. 1 refer to such things as the increasing influence of the mass media on the minds of young children and in their education. Anybody who has a young family, as I have, and who realises how much time his children spend with their eyes and minds glued to the television apparatus must be aware of the tremendous influence this thing exercises. This brings us to the kind of diet upon which their minds are being fed. 1 believe that in Australia we are approaching the stage when we must ask ourselves whether our children are being given sufficient content that is truly Australian - not only Australian in terms of its origin commercially but also in terms of the expressions, the philosophy, the culture if you like, the background of thinking and the attitudes which would be truly indicative of the response of the average Australian. 
Being a relatively small country it is so easy for us to import from a larger country programmes in our language or which purport to be in our language but which convey a relatively foreign response to many things that are vital in the development of the Australian mind. We have heard recently of agitation by certain sections of the community for a greater Australian content in our television programmes. I sympathise with these people, many of whom, of course, seek to promote their own professional futures. Nevertheless 1 give them full marks for sincerity of purpose and altruism. I believe most Australians would sympathise with them. One must concede the costliness of producing de novo an Australian programme, with the actors, the sets and all that is involved in the editing and production of such a programme compared with simply buying an overseas produced programme after it has had its run overseas. Of course the cost of producing in Australia will be greater. One of the difficulties is that the audience for an Australian programme would be limited because only a few relatively wealthy stations would be able to pay the kind of money which at first sight would seem to be indicated as necessary to purchase a programme like Homicide' and the other programmes that are being produced successfully in Australia. 
I would make the positive suggestion that it is not necessary to accept the proposition that the smaller stations - the country stations - which want to air Australian programmes would be unable to find this kind of money and so must go without. In this area governments should scrutinise the possibility of legislating so that such stations might be charged for a programme according to the number of their viewers or, if you like, their capacity to pay because in my opinion a worthwhile Australian programme should be seen widely throughout Australia. A small station serving a small community and having a small return from advertising during the screening of such a programme should be able to obtain the programme at a figure within its budget. This may be an idealistic attitude but it is one to which we must increasingly turn our attention. 
The other side of the coin is the unrealised potential for misuse of this new medium of television and for deception. I speak as one having some small experience in television in Australia. Having had to arrange and compere a weekly half hour programme on public affairs for almost 5 years I understand some of the possibilities that exist in the media. Robin Day of the British Broadcasting Corporation has written a fascinating and challenging article which everybody in Australia interested in this field should ponder. Robin Day is one of Britain's leading public affairs programmers. He has been with BBC television for 10 years. Before that he was with a commercial network. He has a distinguished academic background.  His  article, which is published in the British publication Encounter' is entitled Troubled Reflections of a Television Journalist*. Tn it he refers to some of the things he has experienced and to some of his thoughts in trying to come to grips with the problems posed by television. 
Perhaps 1 could give one or two illustrations of the kind of thing to which he points. He suggests that with this new medium of television a new kind of communication has been set up which is severely limited in itself. It is limited because of things which are inherent to the medium itself. It is limited because it speaks in pictures, lt can get across only other than abstract thought, lt cannot get across chains of argument, of syllogisms in logic and the rest of it, but only the dramatic and the obviously pictorial things that lend themselves to the camera. He rather jokingly suggests that we are going right back to the most, primitive form of communication, the picture language of an earlier era. At the same time as there are these inherent disabilities in terms of communication by television there are also imposed disabilities. I refer to those imposed by people seeking to exercise political control over this medium, and the commercial control which means that only those who are able to afford the price and therefore who seek, having paid the piper, to call the tune. 
In this way Robin Day points up the ways in which he believes television is potentially subject to limitations and difficulties. 
The other aspect that he brings up is perhaps even more significant. In seeking for good television the producer so often is confronted with a dilemma as to how to bring about the result because of the necessity to  carry  around rather cumbersome equipment - cameras, microphones, lights and the rest of it - and the number of persons necessary in the team. This is so different from the days of the reporter who simply took around his notebook. Sometimes he did not have even that but relied on his memory of an eye-witness account. These days there are new kinds of reactions in the situation under scrutiny. These are inevitable because of the introduction into a situation of a television team. One knows that at political protest meetings and in statements made in front of a camera so often things are exaggerated. One might go so far as to say that new or even pseudo situations are created on occasions by the presence of the camera. These are not my sentiments; they are those of a non-politician, Robin Day. 
Tn those early days of television I, too, realised something of the possibilities of distortion. For instance, Robin Day asks whether it is altogether reprehensible for a camera man to say to a celebrity: 'Would you mind going back and coming through the door again. I want to get a shot of you coming out the door of No. 10 Downing Street. The shot I have is not quite what I wanted.' This might be acceptable, but how far should we carry this re-enactment of a situation for the camera? If we do this should we go so far as some producers have done and provide persons and a place in which to photograph, for instance, the reactions of addicts in a drug party? Do you pay those persons? Do you bring them together in premises where it is known that they can obtain drugs and even perhaps go so far indirectly as to supply them with drugs in order to take photographs for a documentary series? This is the kind of serious question that Robin Day asks about the difficulties facing television. 
I had an interesting experience some time ago when 1 tried to chair a discussion between the late  Dr Evatt  and the late  Mr Townley  over an immigration matter.  Dr Evatt  was seated on my right and I introduced the programme, as was my wont, by saying: 'Doctor. I understand that at the recent citizenship conference you criticised the Australian Government for its immigration policy on 2 scores. I wonder if we might discuss these.'  Dr Evatt  said: 'If you do not mind, Doctor, I will summarise my own arguments.' Then he went ahead for 13 minutes without let or hindrance. I plucked his sleeve, I coughed and I tried to intrude but nothing could stop him from continuing his 13-minute burst of oratory. The station management came to me afterwards and said: 'That is the last time that that will happen. The next time someone tries to do that we will not have a common microphone. We will have individual microphones. We will turn the camera from the person speaking. We will tone down his voice and put the camera over to you. You can then address a question to the other participant and leave the first person speaking to nobody.' 
This is an illustration of the way in which it could be possible - I only suggest it is possible - in unscrupulous hands to present a complete debate in a way which does not coincide with the truth. The asides, the interjections from one side, can bc magnified while those from the other side are disregarded. Persons can be made to appear inconclusive in their statements. The statements can be taken over by someone ready to do so on the opposing side. It is possible not for the camera to lie but for a producer to produce a result not in accordance with what an eye-witness would see in a studio. I do not want to go any further in elucidating these very many points. I have done only scant justice to the kind of things brought out by Robin Day in his most penetrating article and his conclusions. 1 want to move on to the Australian scene and the way in which I believe we must continually search and research the basis on which our mass communications, particularly radio and television, are being conducted. I believe the present attitude in Australia is fraught with danger. We are extremely timid of the possibility of political bias or of some other bias intruding into a programme. Rather than have a situation where this could occur, rather than face the criticism of bias, the media are inclined to shy away from it or introduce what I regard as outdated or crude methods of establishing guidelines for such programmes. I will give one illustration of this. Some time ago I was running a programme to which I invited a certain person who happened to be president or chairman of the Water Research Foundation of Australia. I wanted him to discuss a purely technical matter on which he was an expert. However, because he was a member of a legislative council or a legislative assembly - T forget which it was - in a State Parliament it was not possible for him to appear without a counterpart from the opposite political party, regardless of whether that person knew anything at all about the subject. This I regard as one of the really crude methods of trying to establish built-in safeguards against bias. 
There would seem to me to emerge the need for a body that would be more widely representative of the whole community to view and review, particularly upon submission from a significant group of people, a certain period of programming. This panel would do so in the light of whether or sot some kind of change or some kind of compensating factor should be brought in to correct witting or unwitting unfairness or bias. Thus the initiative and spontaneity of the producers, directors and participants in programmes should not be unduly curtailed. 
During a recent controversy over Australian Broadcasting Commission current affairs programmes I gave thought to a number of guidelines which I thought could be helpful. I give these points only as suggestions as to the kind of bases upon which I believe a reasonable and unbiased approach could be made to this very vexed question. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! I think the honourable member for Evans is getting slightly wide of the contents of the Bill, interesting though the debate is. 
The Bill is to amend portions of the Broadcasting and Television Act relating to financial operations, certainly, but I suggest that as it will also affect the practical operations of the Australian Broadcasting Commission and the commercial stations so far as their ownership and control are concerned, there is also under scrutiny the question of control and thereby the presentation of programmes produced by stations. Nevertheless, in deference to you,  Sir, I  will summarise and simply say that I believe it is possible to bring up guidelines which would enable a programme to be produced without being subject to this continual cry of bias, or if it does to deal with it fairly without suggestion of political manipulation. 
The Bill before the House contains provisions relating to the activities of individual stations. One of the grave difficulties that emerges as one reads between the lines of the Bill is the fact that finance is a dominating factor. Finance in the hands of those who are happy enough to possess it in considerable quantities can be a determining factor in the quality of the programme produced and therefore in its content. One of the things T think it is necessary for a government to do in scrutinising the Broadcasting and Television Act is to keep before it all the time the necessity to be dynamic in its approach to the freedom of the producer to produce the kind of programme which is in the best interests of his own creative ability, of his audience and of the programme. At the same time I believe that there must be an overall realisation that we are dealing with a new medium. This is evident in the second reading speech of the Postmaster-General  (Mr Hulme)  in which he said that one of the objectives was, having consulted the Treasury and the Auditor-General's Office, to 'reflect the modern approach to statutory authority financial regulations. I applaud this. I think it is excellent. But I go on to say that there is developing across the world today an understanding of other modern developments within the whole field of broadcasting and television. This development is not only in the financial field. It is not only in the commercial or governmental control field that there is a need for a greater scrutiny to take place. I believe that we are moving into an era where it is necessary for a government to take responsibility in a much wider and more far-reaching way than we have done yet in this field. 
In this House we have continually heard the suggestion that there is something indecent or improper in a government's intruding into the field of commenting on programming controls exercised through the Australian Broadcasting Control Board or into the running of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. I question that attitude. I believe that perhaps the days are approaching when we should have a ministry that is perhaps directed specifically to deal with the whole field of public information and that its activities and rules should be subject continually to scrutiny in this House. I believe that it is only in this area that elected representatives of the people are able to look at the kind of guidelines that are brought forward for our programmes. It is the only area where debate is possible in a free and unfettered way. Here, with all the freedoms that are afforded debate in this place, we can look for security against some of the difficulties and the dangers that I have mentioned. In my view this is a governmental matter; it is one calling for continual review and amendment of the Act. It is one which I believe should be open to debate. 
I could summarise what I have to say in this sentence: Are we going to hand over responsibility to some other body, no matter how competent, how fair or how celebrated they may be in the public eye, just because we think that this is fairer and more democratic - and principally because they are not elected by the people of Australia? In my view it would be possible for us to have before this House a series of guidelines that would be acceptable to both sides of the House and that would enable us to approach amendments in the future in a way that would provide for the scrutiny that I have suggested. In this way I think we would be able to obviate some of the difficulties which occur from time to time because of the mammoth finances involved or because of the large political questions involved. 
The other aspect of the Bill relates to extending broadcast listener's and television viewer's licences to several additional small groups of pensioners. I think this proposal speaks for itself. It is something which I am sure everyone on both sides of the House will applaud. It is certainly an amendment which is in keeping with the changes that are taking place in our community because these are days when pensioners and retired persons rely more and more on television and radio for their entertainment. I believe that anything that could be done to make this more possible for them financially is to be applauded. Therefore, I have pleasure in supporting the second reading of the Bill and commend the alterations and amendments to the House. 
The Minister for External Affairs will be aware that, when a delegation from this Parliament was in Phnom Penh recently, we were informed by General Lon Nol that one of the most important things that Australia could &lt;Jo for his country was to help improve communications, particularly radio communications. This information was conveyed to the Australian Government by cable. 1 ask the Minister: Has any consideration been given to this possibility by the Australian Government in order to assist the Government of Cambodia? 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation because 1 have been misrepresented. In this morning's 'Canberra Times' there is an article which I regard as a caricature of some guidelines which I recently compiled in an endeavour to be constructive and helpful and they have been transformed into what is a critical and polemical article which can be interpreted as criticism of individuals and particular programmes. May I correct 2 points. The article implies under the heading 'Not Wrong to Criticise' that it is not the role of the Australian Broadcasting Commission to criticise or comment. This is a completely unfair statement of what 1 said, lt omits the words: lt is not the role of the ABC per se to criticise or to comment, . . . 
I went on to say: 
The purpose of current affairs programmes is to inform and to encourage thought and criticism. 
That indicates that the ABC's job is to produce raw material in a form so that opposing viewpoints could be represented by experts or persons able to present them in a strong and polemic way. I concluded: 
This is not to say that one side should not have a sweeping victory in an equal debating opportunity. 
The final point I made was with regard to the programme 'This Day Tonight'. Reading the newspaper article one would imagine that I was attacking this programme and in so doing the implication was that a careful audit should be imposed on the programme because of its political and other great powers. What was left out of my statement was the opening sentence, which reads: 
It is vitally important not to spoil the immediacy and spontaneity of a programme like 'This Day Tonight'. 
I went on to say that the way in which this could be done was by having the producer backed up. I said: 
. not to deprive the producer ot anything but to back him up with balance and considered judgments of senior members of the team. 
As I was unable to present these guidelines during a debate on an amendment to the Broadcasting and Television Act and as 1 believe that they are something intended to be helpful and acceptable to ali sides of the political spectrum I incorporate them in Hansard with the concurrence of honourable members. They read: 
THE A. B.C. CURRENT AFFAIRS PROGRAMMES 
Guidelines 
The prime requirement of the direction of these programmes is the building up of a group of persons who are able to select and present facts in a fair and balanced way so as to enable the viewers and listeners to be given a condensed version of the realities, or the 'raw materials', of the situation, lt is not the role of the A.B.C per se to criticise or to comment, nor is it to stage or magnify or distort presentations to campaign, criticise or over-emphasise any particular aspect. The professional skill of the personae! will be judged by their ability to show balanced condensations of actuality. 
The A.B.C. is the Australian Broadcasting Commission and it must have as a pre-requisite an attitude of respect for and recognition of the broad institutional, traditional, moral and cultural bases of Australian life, lt is not an omni-critical organisation living in a vacuum. It is not called on to nullify or neutralise the 'Australian way of life' by treating its standards as a 50/50 matter of opinion, i.e., imagining that it can equally attack and support anything at all. It has to stand for certain norms and standards or it must inevitably be a party to their denigration. It is not possible to be neutral about great social or moral issues (like the sanctity of marriage) without making them appear unimportant or ambivalent, i.e., without destroying moral imperatives. The very nature of some attacks or criticisms can be such as to do real harm to certain things, no matter how they are defended at the same time, if they are not presented in perspective and proportion. 
The purpose of current affairs programmes is to inform and to encourage thought and criticism. When criticism or comment is made, the Commission has an obligation to try to obtain the best possible exponents of opposing points of view. Persistent matching of weak representatives of any position against strong opponents can be a more devastating destruction of the former viewpoint than a total lack of its defence. This is not to say that one side should not have a sweeping victory in an equal debating opportunity. 
The temptation to caricature, i.e.. to distort and present an unfair imbalance, should be curbed by the Commission not because of its being politically or morally this or that - but because it is bad journalism, bad television reporting, e.g., the 
Duntroon charade by Four Corners was an attack, not a news item. 
The choice of subjects is also of great importance in any programme or over any given period, lt is possible, for example, to choose a series of topics prior to an election, which are all themes on which one party or another is weak or vulnerable. The A.B.C. is not there to mount a campaign of attack and, prior to an election, it ought to be scrupulously fair in choosing series of themes equally embarrassing to or laudatory of either side of the political fence. 
It is possible to 'rig' debates on T.V. or radio by techniques such as - 
Unfair use of microphones and cameras to destroy sequences of arguments by one speaker or another - or to distract viewers from them. 
Imbalance in types of questions used, or time given. 
Unfair 'last words' or 'summing up', etc. 
The A.B.C. should have its own 'audits' in all these matters, e.g., on Vietnam - it is possible to present a series of very factual reports which, nevertheless, when- destruction or suffering is depicted, contain almost entirely scenes of destruction or suffering due to Allied activity. The task of the Commission is to endeavour to ascertain that, unless this is the true perspective, and the enemy are not equally or more responsible in this way, then a balance is obtained which reflects the truth. People big enough and well enough informed are required to ensure this balanced outlook. 
It is vitally important not to spoil the immediacy and spontaneity of a programme like T.D.T. However, it must also be recognised that the more 'live' such a programme is, the more it places great political and other powers in the hands of the producers. The most careful 'audit' of content is called for in such instances, not to deprive the producer of anything but to back him up with balance and considered judgments of senior members of the team. 
There should be a system of notation of the content of such programmes indicating the nature of the material and any cases of marked imbalance of opportunity to one side or another - for such must occur from time to time in the best regulated programmes. 
Any man alive could be shown to be a scoundrel if a series of his 'worst moments' were quite factually and truthfully presented - out of proportion to the rest of his character and behaviour. Really first-class professional skill is needed to present such a balance. 
The A.B.C. does not have to compete for ratings with commercial radio and T.V. The skill of its officers should be judged not by ratings but by accuracy. 
A rise in the base rate of pension of 50c is not enough. The philosophy which gave effect to it is inadequate for Australia in 1970. I know it exactly matches the consumer price index rise for the year of an average of 3.7 per cent but the Budget itself points to the fact that in June the rise was at the rate of 5 per cent. I know that many pensioners in 1970 are greatly better off than pensioners previously. 1 know all about the tapered means test. With the former honourable member for Sturt I was one of its chief architects. I know about Meals on Wheels, medical and hospital benefits, home nursing, chiropody, television and radio benefits and so on. Arguing from the past one can justify or perhaps defend the 50c rise. My belief is that right across Australia today few people are prepared to accept that as adequate. 
Before 1 state my own belief about the age pension let me make another point to defend the Budget position. This is a period of unprecedented threat in terms of inflation. Demand inflation is being held, with perhaps an unfair burden on home builders, imposed especially by the indirect taxation provisions of the Budget. Cost inflation hangs over all our heads, however, with the bludgeon of strikes and other forms of refusal of labour forcing up wages in unprecedented fashion. There  u  no matching increase in productivity. Costs must soar and those on fixed incomes must  suffer.  If pensioners and superannuitants are going to blame anyone today, a very significant part of the blame must be levelled against the manipulators and passengers who are riding to power on the back of organised labour. 
Again, take the other side of the picture. A married couple with fringe benefits and full pension today get a little better than $1,500 equivalent annual income. They know that public conscience will force governments to keep this somewhere near the increases of the consumer price index at least. But what kind of savings do a man and his wife have to hold to give that income as well as to assure them of capital growth sufficient to take care of losses in value due to inflation? I doubt whether such a portfolio would give an average yield of much more than 4 per cent per annum. This means that a market value of somewhere near $37,500 is required to give an annual income of $1,500. Even then it would be a bold man who would claim that, with an adequate income today, his investments are such that he can be sure that they will be equally adequate in 10, 15 or 20 years time. So we are talking about big money. 
A pensioner who has been able to save nothing at all still has about the same peace of mind as someone who has saved an amount that puts him just outside the pension bracket - $30,000 - and who expects to live another 10 years. Thanks to the merged means test and the tapered means test a married couple with savings within that range, especially with their own home, are catered for relatively adequately. But my complaint, because complaint it is, is not for those who have enough but for a minority in this big booming country who do not have enough, and they certainly exist. 
Let me, at this point, explode another illusion if it exists at all. It is by no means true that all pensioners with negligible savings are in that state because they have been prodigal, wasteful or careless. Some are. Some are spongers - the lower fringe of our society. They are included, but they are not a majority. No man alive is more proud of his parents than I, yet if they were alive today they would be drawing the full old age pension. They both served in the First World War. My father was unemployed during the depression, but we never received a penny piece from the dole. He built extra sleepout bedrooms on our home to enable my mother to run a nursing home while he started a little grocers shop. If he did not sell much, at least we got our supplies wholesale. All their lives my parents worked in charitable and public activities. My father was 3 times mayor of Port Adelaide. He was  President  of the Institute of Marine and Power Engineers. He was  Chairman  of the local Parents and Citizens Association and of the Group Committee of the Scouts. He was a member of the Municipal Tramways Trust in South Australia. He spent his last years devoting his whole time to she British Sailors Society. My mother was his mainstay. My sister was a nurse and I was a parson. My parents spent their last years getting the full pension. Honourable members would know how much pay either my sister or I could get to add to the luxuries of our home. My parents were age pensioners with a record second to none in the service of Australia. They are not exceptions, for such people are legion. If they were alive today they would have been handed SOc a week each extra for 1970-71 in this Australia that they both fought to build in war and in peace, this Australia of the mineral boom of Hamersley and Gove, and today of uranium in the Northern Territory: this Australia of record growth rates, of security and peace which is the envy of the world. Fifty cents! It is not enough. The philosophy which gave rise to it is not good enough. I pledge myself to do all I can to change that thinking. 
I am not going to vote against the Government at this time on this issue. There is no sense at all in opening the door to a burglar because you quarrel with father. Labor in power today means Hawke and Cairns, and the Corns pulling the wires. Labor in power means the end of power for the people and power for the protesters. Labor means a sell-out in South East Asian defence and a yes vote for galloping decline in public morality. Not all Labor is like that; not even a majority. But the majority of workers do not control Labor any more. The minority know how they can win, and we have not seen their nastiest mood yet, not by a long chalk. No, I am not voting to help Labor, not even on this issue on which I feel so deeply. But I will tell honourable members what I am going to do. I am going to work as never before to get my colleagues to accept this programme: First, we must have an end to the policies which still discourage savings and thrift and which make a breadline pension inevitable for numbers of Australians; secondly, we must have an end to the position where some people can bludge on the community, spend all their income on non-essentials and know that they will be just about as well off as a man who struggles to educate his family and who saves only a few thousand dollars before retiring or whose superannuation is little if any better and is doomed to decline to the breadline; thirdly, we must face the fact that the vast majority of Australians do not want old people to suffer real poverty, no matter why they are in that position. 
The only answer I can see that is fair to all is in a nation-wide superannuation scheme to which all wage earners must contribute, which would be financially identifiable from Consolidated Revenue and which would provide a retiring allowance a little higher than the present pension rate. This would not destroy the private superannuation schemes, which daily become more precarious anyway because of inflation, because these schemes would then operate to augment the national plan for all who wished to contribute towards a further income. The means test as we know it would, ipso facto, disappear and a very limited welfare fund would exist for cases for dire emergency where a new and much more stringent means test would apply. There would have to be a bridging period, determined on actuarial advice on the way in which the present situation would be phased into the new. In rough terms it could mean that the Government's contribution to the scheme could be equal to its present Budget for age pensions. This would be augmented by contributions from the work force for an amount per capita equal to the extra sum needed to pay all aged persons at the new rate divided by the number of wage earners. 
The number of wage earners is increasing at a faster rate than the number of pensioners. Precise figures are not available for such a plan, for there will still be a period of more than a year before even the cost of the current tapered means test will be known accurately. Contributors to current superannuation schemes would have their contributions divided into 2 parts. The base rate of the national scheme would be subtracted from their present payments and the balance would go into a supplementary scheme to augment that scheme to equal their present rate of entitlement. These are broad principles only, and much adjustment would be required, but there is no doubt at all in my mind that such a scheme could and should be brought into effect. 
Whilst one is critical of the welfare aspect of the Budget in particular, it is more important to see the way that the Leader of the Opposition has approached the economy as a whole. If anything is calculated to strike at the roots of the Australian economic and industrial scene it is the philosophy inherent in his attitude. One is accustomed to the lack of emphasis by the Australian Labor Party on its essential programme of nationalisation. It has glossed over it with so much other bait for the unwary. But it is there all the time. It is based on a fundamental fallacy, namely, that we can scrap the profit incentive, sock the industrious, penalise the successful and still produce plenty for everybody. This goes down well with many folk who like to see this big handsome Robin Hood of a man talking of squeezing the rich to give more to the poor. 
It is great listening to the 'class struggle' bit so long as you do it in the context of productivity as it now exists. There certainly appears to be enough around for everyone's need. But the whole thing is a farce unless you look equally hard at the other prong - indeed the first prong - of Labor's Socialist pitchfork: 'From each according to his ability'. Productivity means: First produce your cake then share it up. The first requisite for productivity is work. The Leader of the Opposition had not one word to say about the need for productivity. If ever there were a pie in the bye and bye philosophy it is his. But while he goes flirting with Hawke, on his own admission, planning a strike for political purposes to boost his own histrionics at Budget time, calling for less work, stoppage of work and stoppage of production to bludgeon his way towards the the Prime Minister's Lodge, the Leader of the Opposition introduces a yet more dangerous set of financial theses. 
He attacks the large amendment and liberalisation of the income tax scale which more than fulfil the Government's election promise. He wants not a reform but a revolution. What he means is a wholesale change from the present, far more than the Government's measure in the direction of taxing those on higher incomes and relieving those on lower incomes. This is good Labor stuff, of course. But what is new is his incursion into indirect taxation. The health scheme, for example, in Labor's plan is also to be paid for in proportion to income. In short, the Leader of the Opposition would not only increase the rates of taxation very steeply on all but the lower brackets of earnings but he would make the higher earners pay more for the same goods and services which they enjoy in common with the rest. Hawke is at the same business at the other end in the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. Tax the higher incomes; make the more profitable industries pay more. The criterion is not to be the value of labour, the worth of the work, but what penalty can be placed on success. 
This is the end of traditional trade unionism, of course, and it discards all the benefits of regularised labour awards and conditions for payment based on the industry's profits without any mention of responsibility for productivity. Can anyone seriously think that Australia as we know it would remain for long under such a pair of leaders as Hawke and his parliamentary counterpart? What a fool a man would be to study and strive and slog away at carving out a successful career when he is confronted by a Socialist attitude in government that outdoes Russia itself. 
Nevertheless, I am far from arguing that prosperity should not be shared by the whole community. Quite to the contrary. I am strongly in favour of methods whereby every section of the nation profits by success. What  1  refuse to accept is that workers in a particular field, such as miners at Mount Isa or drillers at Kambalda, should feel that they have exclusive rights to bonuses for success and that the benefits should not go also to the teacher who trains their children, the policeman who guards their security, the postman who delivers their mail and, if you like, the income tax clerk who assesses their two returns. We should not forget in this argument the teachers who trained them and who are now retired, and possibly others who made great contributions to their booming little world and who are now drawing the age pension. 
There is great need for us to restress the fact that we are one people and that the whole purpose of our systems of taxation, arbitration, social services and the rest is to even out the rewards as well as the responsibilities of society. The LiberalCountry Party Government believes in enterprise, initiative, rewards for success and so forth. It is not in business to destroy individuality and energy by the dull, hopeless hand of bureaucratic Socialism. But it is not a laissez-faire system either. Australia today is demanding that a reassessment be made of the share held in Australia Unlimited by people on pensions and fixed income and by those least able to go on strike, such as nurses. 
At this time of the year one gets many letters. There is always one type which I personally find somewhat distressing. It is the letter of abuse at the size of parliamentary pensions compared with social service pensions. 1 make 2 points: Firstly, members of parliament subscribe heavily to their so-called pension - more than SI, 100 a year goes directly out of each member's own pocket; secondly, members of Parliament for the most part have about the most precarious job in the country, and there are many, many capable men and women who refuse to consider leaving a secure job for the chances of politics. So I say to pensioners: For goodness sake, lay off that angle; it does not help me or any of my colleagues who fight for your cause when it is so manifestly ill informed. 
In conclusion, 1 return to my major theme. I believe that the Government should rethink this pension increase. If the July and August rises in the consumer price index are what I think they will prove to be - well over 4 per cent - this will surely be reason for supplementary action. I ask the Government therefore - and I pledge myself to do all I can personally - to do these 3 things: Firstly, review the age pension base rate at the end of the first quarter of the financial year in the light of known facts about the consumer price index at that time: secondly, set up an ad hoc committee to consider and propose methods for implementing a scheme for national superannuation; thirdly, initiate a nationwide call for restraint in terms of both price rises and wage rises and at the same time give more thought to the ways in which increased prosperity can be shared by both those whose energy and productivity have occasioned it and those in the community who have a right to expect a share in it. 

 Mr GARRICK (Batman) [9.48 1  -  I rise to support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  that this House condemns this deceptive and negative Budget because it fails to meet the real needs of the Australian community. May I preface my remarks by congratulating the honourable member for Evans  (Dr Mackay)  on his presentation in his earlier remarks of the policy of the Australian Labor Party.  His  latter remarks made me wonder just when he had done any work to produce something for the people of Australia. However I congratulate him on his charitable attitude, but it is strange that he should speak so strongly against the Budget and yet refuse to vote against it. 
This year we celebrate the bi-centenary of Captain Cook's discovery of this continent's eastern seaboard. This continent, of course, had been discovered many times in the preceding 200 years, but Cook's discovery unearthed, if you like, the continent for the British Establishment, which at that time had some problems to solve. More than a few of that Establishment's savants saw in this continent, with the hope that springs eternal, a place for a new beginning but these hopes were soon dashed. There was no new beginning, merely a transplant. Not of all the worst people but a transplant of all the very institutions and structures that would make this ageless continent the place for the old world to perpetuate itself. 
Here we see the very same preservation of privilege based upon ever increasing inequality. If anyone doubts this, let him look closely at this most recent new beginning - a new Treasurer bringing down his first Budget and indicating without equivocation, without ambiguity, that in him are incarnated the very attitudes which benighted the lives of our forebears and which today. 200 years after Cook, prompt the low income earners in affluent Australia to abandon all hope. This nation was founded with great expectations, but for those of our people who suffer hard times their great expectations have foundered wilh this Budget. 
That reminds me that not only is this the year of the bicentenary of Cook's discovery of this dead continent and the year of the nation's discovery of the dead heart in the Australian Government, but also this year is the centenary of the death of Charles Dickens. Dickens more than any other writer imprinted on every mind that read his works the appalling conditions under which so many people burnt out their lives. Who does not know the passage in which Oliver asks for more? And who does not know  Mr Limbkins's  question of Bumble: 
Do I understand that he asked for more after he had eaten the supper alloted by the dietary? 
The terrible element in the institutional mind as personified by  Mr Limbkins  is the inability to take into account the needs of individuals.  Mr Limbkins  could never suspect that Oliver's request for more reflected not Oliver's gluttony but the dietary's insufficiency. I have ceased to suspect that the Treasury fits into the same category as  Mr Limbkins 
Before discussing the plaintive cries of our municipalities for more, let us glance briefly at other areas in which this Liberal Government's policies are denying the reasonable needs of more and more of this nation's hard working citizens for more. Maternity allowances have remained unchanged for 25 years. Child endowment has not been increased for 10 years. Age pensions, as a percentage of average weekly earnings, have in fact fallen by 5 per cent in the past 20 years. In the case of persons in retirement the means test has become more stringent, making it practically impossible for many pensioners to augment their earnings sufficiently to live above the bread line and debarring completely many needy persons from eligibility for pensions at all. 
Everyone remembers that the Government some years ago made much ado about its generosity in increasing the allowable income for single pensioners to the princely sum of SIO, and for married couples $17 per week. This was the first increase in allowable incomes for more than a decade - or perhaps not more than but merely a decade. What, I ask you, is the value of $10 today compared with 5 years ago? How much less can $10 buy today than it could in 1965! This Government of robber barons has, I am loath to say, stolen a substantial portion of the staff of life from these pensioners. The Minister and his colleagues on the benches opposite who have to accept the responsibility for the disastrous conditions which afflict the lives of so many of our people, are callous parsimonious and self-righteous. And these,  Mr Speaker,  are the very attributes which Charles Dickens, for instance, found so distasteful in men of their class more than a century ago. 
One could go on quoting statistics and instances, but they all add up to one sad fact - the dismal failure of this Liberal Government to face up to its responsibilities to the Australian people. There is no point in quoting statistics which are merely concerned with the collection and classification of numerical facts. I have yet to meet the human being who considers himself a numerical fact despite the rare creatures that have their origins in mind such as  Mr Limbkins  and  Mr Bumble,  'a pair of inimitable souls'. I would like to say however, the unhappy reality is that they are of the sort that is to be found in large numbers on the benches opposite. 
I know many people personally in my electorate of Batman who are suffering the ill-effects of the short-sighted policies of this Government. They are working men and women who have precious little to show for a life-time of hard work, and small business and professional people, plagued by the constant fear of being denied assistance because they have been able to save some of their hard-won earnings, and on the basis of the new Treasurer's Budget for the immediate future these people are condemned to further suffering. 
We have in recent months heard urgent voices calling for more assistance for local government. The people in local government, being closer to the needs of the people, are well aware of the ill-effects of this Government's short-sightedness. I am certain there are few better illustrations of the extent to which this Liberal-Country Party Government has lost touch with the needs of the Australian people than the utter irrelevance of this Budget to the problems of our cities. It does not even accept that urban development is a problem. We are the most urban of all nations, not by accident but as the direct result of the policies of this Government. Yet the last 20 years will go down in our history as the period of the emasculation of our local governments. 
It is never surprising to a Labor man that this Government is always more effective in pushing the interests of property than it is in looking to the interests of the people. After all, the essential difference between Labor and non-Labor parties is that Labor puts people first, whereas the Liberals and their camp followers put property before everything. This is dramatically demonstrated by the way the Liberals have reduced the local authorities of this country to the position of virtual impotence in the affairs of our citizens. Over the last 20 years this Government has mounted a dual attack on our local authorities. For example, on the one hand through its migration policies, its rural policies and its tariff policies, it has compounded the problems of our cities by driving people and secondary industries into our cities; and on the other hand through its fiscal policies it has progressively deprived our local and semigovernment authorities of access to any income other than rates. 
We are one of the most affluent countries in the world, and yet no where else in the world is it seriously proposed that the problems of urban development are not problems of national importance. Where else in the world are foreign owned mining projects in the hinterlands designated national development projects, and sewerage systems and public transport for our cities designated local projects? And this in the most urban of all nations. In the last 20 years the indebtedness of the Commonwealth has diminished. The debts of State governments have risen by 4 times, of local government more than 9 times and of semi-government authorities more than ten-and-a-half times. The day is rapidly approaching when the combined debts of our municipal authorities will cost more to service than the combined debts of the States, and so the people of Australia pay the price of Liberal mis-management. 
The breakdown of our primary industries has resulted in the Government publicly recommending that the small farmers, the little people, leave the land and move to the cities. This breakdown, of course, has been accentuated by these little people having to support as part of their production costs the secondary industries protected by short-sighted tariff policies. These secondary industries, often foreign owned, are city based industries and have been encouraged to expand and prosper with the aid of New Australian labour which until recently was brought to this country by a Government which did not even believe it had a responsibility to provide these people with a proper opportunity to learn our language. Naturally this Government docs not believe it has any responsibility to assist migrants with their housing problems or, for that matter, any of the other problems of their living environment. In short, this Government has embraced a policy which, while leading to a serious breakdown of State-Federal relationships, has all but sounded the death knell of local government. And still it has the hypocrisy to accuse the Labor Party of being centralists. lt is not the Labor Party that is afraid of local government; it is not the Labor Party that refuses to accept Federal responsibility for the quality of the living environment of over 80 per cent of our people. What the Labor Party wants is to encourage the growth of local governments as a meaningful force in the affairs of our cities, and we will do this by recognising that the problems of our cities are problems of national development. We in the Labor Party do not accept the view that a country as affluent as Australia cannot afford to make funds available for urban development projects. To argue that we cannot afford to tackle the problems of the living environment of over 80 per cent of our people is nothing less than an admission of incompetent leadership. We in the Labor Party support the idea that services such as kindergartens, libraries, pensioner services, youth clubs, etc., should be predominantly a local responsibility. 
What we object to. however, is that local authorities are also expected to finance almost entirely from rates - that indirect tax burden on the little people - all the capital and internal costs of all of the other investments required to make our cities decent places for people to live and raise their families. It is no surprise that the Liberal Government has stood by and allowed the States to milk the local authorities. The Government, of course, is trapped by its own fiscal policies. Were it to recognise it had any responsibility for the living environment of over 80 per cent of 
Australians it would have to raise questions about the way the States have treated their local authorities and, of course, it could not do this without admitting the weakness of its own attitude to the States. In a nutshell, the Government has simply stood by while the States have passed on to local authorities the financial problems given to them by Canberra. Thus both the Federal and State governments can stand back and chorus 'no responsibility'. 
Clearly this Government has got itself into a position from which it cannot extract itself even if it wanted to. Clearly the affairs of the living environment of our people are going to have to wait for a Labor Government in Canberra. If there is any consolation in this budget it is the public admission of disinterest in and utter contempt for the needs of our people, which can only hasten the day when even the men men of property - the supporters of this Government - will welcome a Labor Government so that we can tackle the problems of nation building that have been so neglected since the days of Ben Chifley. 
Has the Minister for External Affairs any information to give this House regarding Vietcong attempts to disrupt the recent Senate elections in South Vietnam by the widespread use of terror? Did the tactics of the Vietcong include the destruction of an orphanage and the deliberate murder of women and children? Finally, will the Minister see that full information regarding these matters is given to those members of this Parliament who have expressed their support for the Vietcong and who publicly espouse their cause and appear under their banner? 
My question is addressed to Postmaster-Genera). Will he obtain and study a transcript of a session on Australian Broadcasting Commission radio this morning when a  Mr Blain  and his lady assistant discussed the institution of marriage? Will the Minister give consideration to the value to Australia of a session in which all comment made agreed that there was no real place for vows or required promises in the marriage ceremony and where the lady described for Listeners a ceremony in which the bride and groom, having been pronounced husband and wife, proceeded to strip off their clothes and consummate the marriage before the celebrant and the guests? Finally why put up licence fees to pay for more and more of this subnormal tripe? 
I wish to address my remarks, in the first instance, to several of the speeches that have been made from the Opposition benches which have been little short of astonishing in terms of their logic or lack of logic. Perhaps the most pathetic speech to my mind was the one that we heard, albeit well delivered in terms of oratory, from the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley).  This particular speech, I believe, deserves to be examined in depth because of many of the things to which the author of the speech has subscribed. For instance, the honourable member spoke of the situation in Vietnam pre the fall of Diem, and the current situation. The rhetorical question that he asked presupposed that in the days before the Americans had more than an advisory group there, in the days before there was military intervention - if you like - by the allies to assist the South Vietnamese, the situation in that country was, if not better, then no worse than it is at the present time. It would be astonishing for anyone who had studied the events that were taking place prior to the fall of Diem - the kind of things that were occurring as daily horrors in that country - to attempt to equate those with the Vietnam that some of us were privileged to see only recently. Let me quote, not from Government sources, not from those authors that could be reckoned as being the supporters of Government involvement in Vietnam, but from some other sources for the record and to throw light on what has been suggested by the honourable member for Fremantle. Let me quote some of the books that are so eagerly sought in quotation by such authors as the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr Cairns)  and Levien and many others who have written pamphlets attacking Australian involvement. For instance, I quote from Ellen Hammer, writing in Pacific Affairs' in spring 1962, at pages 32 and 33, where she described Vietnam pre the fall of Diem: 
Some 1,400 officials and civilians were murdered in I960; the number was even higher in 1961. While the Vietcong propaganda line may have been that it was simply righting injustices perpetrated by agents of the Southern Government, in practice it exploited and did its best to extend the gap which separated the villages from the central government; and when it struck it concentrated much of its violence on those fields where the government had most efficiently served the  people am)  against established order of any kind. 
Tt attacked the social and economic services of the southern government, hospitals, schools, malaria eradication teams, agricultural research stations, it raided a leprosarium and brutally attacked the patients, lt murdered Buddhist and Catholic priests, teachers, women and even children. Terror became a weapon to control and manipulate the population. 
This is Vietnam immediately before the demise of Diem. Bernard Fall in 'The Two Vietnams', pages 359-61, wrote: 
In mid-1.957 the first deliberate offensive of the insurgents began. Their target was simple and well chosen; the village official . . . perhaps as many as 13,000 small officials have been killed in South Vietnam. . . . 
That was at the time of his writing in the early 1960s. He continued: 
Another favourite human target ... is schoolteachers, which is comprehensible in a war where the allegiance of the people is the chief prize of victory . . . according to findings of a field survey of the World Confederation of Organisations of the Teaching Profession carried out in South Vietnam in the spring of 1962, almost 80,000 school children had been deprived of schools because of terrorists action, and 636 schools were closed. Approximately 250 teachers had been kidnapped and another 30 allegedly killed. 
David Halberstam in 'The Making of a Quagmire* - hardly one who was a supporter of the Government and the Government's position - wrote: 
The pace was stepped up early in 1960; the Vietcong started a systematic attack on Diem's village officials, designed to undermine what little Government authority existed. Forty village chiefs were killed the first week and many arms were captured ... To the Vietcong, terror was an act of discrimination. They also made school teachers a prime target; 
He went on to tell the same story. I could quote Scigliano in the same strain and also Tanham. Denis Warner in The Last Confucian' wrote:  the Vietcong launched a major terrorist campaign (in February 1960) against village elders and other supporters of the Diem regime. Forty village chiefs died in the first week . . . 
He told the same story as I have already quoted. He continued: 
Schoolteachers who taught the curriculum laid down by the Government and encouraged their pupils to take part in flag raising ceremonies and to sing the national anthem were another primary target. Several hundred were kidnapped, tortured, starved and indoctrinated. Those who responded favourably were released. More than 100 are still missing, and 30 are known to have been executed 
This is the country that was described by the honourable member opposite in sanctimonious terms suggesting that it was a country no worse than it is at the present moment after the intervention of the allied forces. The honourable member went so far as to say: 
I do not think it was the purpose of the Vietcong to go around killing people. 
All the evidence that can be adduced for world opinion and the people who have been there - the commentators who are regarded as authoritative by so many honourable members opposite - deny this to be true. If we want the facts about what happened immediately before- 
The honourable member asks: What about our body count? What is a body count, in any case, except the victims of a war. Is the honourable member suggesting that we equate the victims of an armed conflict between 2 armies with the deliberate murder of women and children in an orphanage to prevent a democratic election? If that is the kind of logic honourable members opposite bring forward from their benches, I do not want to hear too much of it in Australia. Let us get on to what the honourable member for Fremantle had to say. He went into this kind of logic, and I hope that in reflection as he reads what I have to say, as I hope he will, he will think better of the logic and the morality of this statement. He said that it is better, in winning a political or ideological battle for the minds of men, to have the brutal suddenness of Russian's invasion of Czechoslovakia than the 10 years of drawn out bloodshed in Vietnam. In other words, he says that the surrender of a whole nation to the - indescribable brutalities of the Russian secret police, of political and religious persecution and the destruction of any freedom of speech and liberalism in an entire nation is better in his book than standing up for one's right and freedom in the way that has been done in Vietnam. I interjected: 'So then the end justifies the means'.  His  reply was a scornful: Bah!' I repeat the charge.  His  proposal is a travesty of morality. The criterion for the honourable member and for the Opposition is not right or wrong but world opinion or vote catching. He thinks it is better to have a wrong action that is over quickly and forgotten than an attempt at a right action which has a long and bitter passage and risks rejection by the mob. And the mob is the criterion, the mob is the jury and all too often the mob is the audience. This is the situation that we have been asked to accept. 
Then the honourable member went on to talk about Sihanouk's regime as being the regime certainly carrying on its existence on a tightrope. He made this statement: 
Whoever dominoed Sihanouk made the same fundamental mistake. 
This was the same mistake as was made by those who dominoed Diem. I do not know what he means by this dominoing. But I would have thought that the domino theory was one subject the Opposition would want to avoid after the invasion of Laos and the invasion of Cambodia. I would have thought that that 'domino' was rather a dirty word for them. But what does he mean? Is he suggesting that it was a colossal mistake for the people of the country to overthrow his regime by constitutional means, by unanimous decision of their elected legislature. In case there is a sneer about the way the members of that legislature were elected, let me remind honourable members that they were appointed under Sihanouk in the days of his regime and they were unanimous in their decision that he should be ousted from office. Why should he be ousted? For a great number of reasons that were given to us. 
First of all, he stood well and squarely across the road of the democratic and economic development of his country. He was openly conniving with the North Vietnamese and Vietcong. Eighty per cent of the supplies that went to the enemy in III and IV Corps zones in South Vietnam went through Sihanoukville. They went in crates marked for the Cambodian army. People were paid for it. A certain amount of the proceeds of this went into the coffers, if not of Sihanouk then of Princess Monique his wife. This was the kind of situation that was presented to us not by government officials but by hundreds - representatives of thousands - of teachers and students, for instance. The country was united in this decision, in the  Tightness  of it, and in defending their homeland as a united force as were the people of Britain in 1940. Is the Opposition going to say, through the honourable member for Fremantle, that it was a fundamental mistake that this man should have been overthrown by a government: It was not a coup d'etat. Let me remind the Opposition that the same government remained. The same Prime Minister remained and the same kind of authority existed in the country. It was a change after many warnings, many requests and many pleas to Sihanouk. It was a change of their head of State. This is an entirely different situation from the one that is presented to us from the Opposition benches. 
My last words are about the situation in South Vietnam. When a statement was made on this side of the House a while ago the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Birrell)  interjected and said: Well, it is about time then that we withdrew our troops from South Vietnam if the Vietnamese are getting as strong as they are.' I replied to him by way of interjec tion: 'It is getting around to that now.'  I  believe we are getting to that situation.  I  believe that we now have, thanks to the fact that the Americans went there and thanks to the fact that the Australians, the South Koreans, the Filipinos and so many other nations who have committed themselves in different ways assisted this regime, a nation standing on its feet with an army of more than  1  million men well armed and trained with another  3.5  million men in its reserves, regional forces and home guard. There are in South Vietnam today well trained pilots with their own air force and with their own ability to maintain their aeroplanes. None of their combat pilots have less than  2.500  hours of combat flying. An American admiral told us that in his opinion there was a naval force taking over with excellent procedures, ability and maintenance to carry out the execution of manoeuvres of their riverine craft. 
This country is growing stronger and it will be possible for us to phase out Australian and American troops in the immediate future. But no thanks to the Opposition. Without us the South Vietnamese would be on their knees. They would be undergoing the kind of terror which we were told by the honourable member for Fremantle was not really what the Vietcong meant. He did not think that it was the purpose of the Vietcong to go round killing people. Tei that to the marines because he could not tell it to a living soul in Vietnam. This is an entirely different story from the one that is told so often by the apologists for the Opposition's viewpoint in Australia. I believe that South Vietnam is now a significant nation. It will exist. It will continue to exist and in the future our contribution ought to be phased more towards economic and civil assistance than to the field of military assistance. But it will never be done as long as we have the mentality that somehow or other the end justifies the means and as long as we shut our eyes to the fact that across Australia today we are losing the ideological war, not for the reasons adduced by the honourable member for Fremantle but because not enough people have the guts to stand up and say what is right whether it is unpopular or not or whether the mob bellows its approval or not. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Petition of the undersigned citizens of New South Wales respectfully showeth. 
That due to higher living cost, persons on Social Service Pensions, are finding it extremely difficult tolive in even the most frugal way. 
We therefore call upon the Commonwealth Government to increase the base pension rate to 30 per cent of average weekly male earnings, plus supplementary assistance in accordance with Australian Council of Trade Union policy and by so doing give a reasonably moderate pension. 
The Average Weekly earnings for adult male unit wage and salary earner means the figures issued from time to time by the Commonwealth Statistician and published quarterly. 
Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate and House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to bring about the wishes expressed in our Petition; so that our Citizens receiving the Social Service Pensions may live their lives in dignity. 
And your Petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
On behalf of the right honourable member for Lowe I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of electors of Lowe respectfully showeth: 
That they are gravely concerned at what they consider  to  be the adverse effect on moral standards in the Australian community of the increasing portrayal and description of obscenity, sexual licencepromiscuityandviolence  in  filmsbooks, magazines, plays and, to a lesser extent, television and radio programmes; 
That their concern arises partly from the fact that historians, such as J. D. Unwin and Arnold Toynbee, have shown that nearly all nations which have perished have done so because of internal moral decay; and partly because obscenity and indecency are contrary to the teachings of Christianty which is the acknowledged religion of more than 80 per cent of Australians, besides being part and parcel of the law of the land' (Quick and Garran in 'Commentaries on the Australian Constitution', page 951); and 
That in accordance with the findings of the Australian Gallup Poll, published in the Melbourne Herald on 14th November 1969, the majority of Australian citizens want censorship either maintained or increased - 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that Honourable Members of the House of Representatives will seek to ensure that Commonwealth legislation bearing on censorship of films, literatture and radio and television programmes is so framed and so administered as to preserve sound moral standards in the community. 
And your Petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister, ls there a delegation of student leaders from Cambodia presently in Australia? Have these students come direct from the war zone to give evidence to Australians regarding the invasion of their country by a foreign power? Why has there been so little public notice of this visit? ls the lack of publicity due ro inefficiency or does it suggest a species of censorship? Will the Prime Minister ask the Australian people to compare the treatment of this visit with that which would surely have greeted such a group if (heir evidence had been anti-American or antiAustralian? 
Just following on what has been said, it is quite correct. Those were the words that were spoken - that the honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman)  went outside to hear what advice the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  would give to those who were seeking a Communist victory in Vietnam. This was not a statement - that all those outside were seeking a Communist victory. 
There is a study of logic possible, surely, lt is surely logical to deduce that when persons parade a particular flag they do so for the time honoured reason that they owe some allegiance or support to the purposes of the flag. If they were persons, as I saw myself, carrying the Vietcong flag any sane person can deduce that there were those present who sought a Vietcong victory. 

 Dr MACKAY The Leader of the Opposition went out to speak to them. The honourable member for Deakin sought to hear what advice he had to give to them. That is all he said. He could reasonably expect - and I hope would expect - that the Leader of the Opposition would advise the persons concerned to get rid of those flags and to go home. The honourable member imputed nothing in what he had to say. The points of order are absolutely irrelevant. 
After the irrelevancies to which we have just listened let me recapitulate what we are doing here at this moment. We are here debating a motion of want of confidence in the Prime Minister which has been moved on the grounds that he has been responsible for falsified photographs of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  at the recent Moratorium in the presence of Vietcong flags. A want of confidence motion is a motion of high seriousness in Parliament. Governments have fallen and Ministers have been dismissed in time past because of the moving of such a motion. Is this such an occasion? If it were, the time taken in this House today would be justified. We have not had question time. No Government business has been enacted. Perhaps even the heat of the accusations of this day would be justified, but this is not such an occasion. This is a pseudo-occasion. This is one of the low points of my experience in this Parliament. Why? 
Let me recapitulate the chain of events, which is brief enough, that has led up to this day. The Leader of the Opposition made 3 statements. Firstly, he advised young servicemen, having enlisted in the Services, to refuse active service. Secondly, he went on record as sneering at ex-soldier policemen as being corrupted by their military service into a species of thugs. Finally, more recently, he extended his advice to troops already serving in Vietnam. What was the reaction of the nation to these 3 statements? There was widespread and uni versal condemnation. In the Press, including those newspapers which generally do not give much comfort to the Government but which could be thought to be supporting the Opposition on many occasions, there was utter condemnation. Then came this sequence of events: A series of puerile charges forced into Parliament and the deliberate reduction of this House on many occasions to a species of bear garden or circus ring. There were the tones and trappings of seriousness, but the content of empty and hollow nonsense. 
What was the gravamen of the charges levelled, the supposed grounds of a no confidence motion? They too were 3 in number: Firstly, that the Prime Minister bad falsely charged the Leader of the Opposition with speaking under the Vietcong flag at the Moratorium; secondly, that he had tabled or caused to bc tabled falsified photographs showing a Vietcong flag in the vicinity of the Leader of the Opposition at the Moratorium; and thirdly, that he had wrongly brought about the use of the services of the Australian News and Information Bureau for partisan political purposes. 
I have notes but I am certainly not sticking to them verbatim. To return to the first issue about the Vietcong flags and the Moratorium, let us be sensible and forget mere semantics. Let me ask these questions of the House and the nation: Were Vietcong flags prominent at this Moratorium? Were they significant to its purpose? Did the Leader of the Opposition know of this purpose and this demonstration of enemy colours? Did he speak so as to condemn or to encourage their presence? These are the questions that this nation wants answered. The people know that the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  publicly stated his purpose - to invite Vietcong leaders to this country for this occasion. They know too that  Senator Wheeldon  is on record in Hansard as having said:  l personally, I do not deny, do support the Vietcong ... If anyone accuses me of being around when somebody was carrying a Vietcong  flag,  1 will not apologise. I will not withdraw. I will not say that I was not there. I will not say that I would have left the march if 1 had seen  the Vietcong flag being carried. I did see some people carrying Vietcong flags and I did not withdraw from the march. 
The senator says that he supports the Vietcong and will not withdraw or apologise for being with the Vietcong flag. But what does the Leader of the Opposition do? He, as usual, tries an evasion tactic: 
I did not see any Vietcong flags in my vicinity . . . 
But, did he know of the pro-Vietcong purposes of the Moratorium? Did he not read the many placards bearing inscriptions of this kind: 'Victory to the Vietcong'? Oh, no! He shrinks with horror from such a suggestion! Then, why did he advise young Australian men to desert if required to fight the Vietcong? Why did he call men who fought the Vietcong thugs'? Why did he call on servicemen in the face of the Vietcong at this moment to refuse to fight? Is he under a Vietcong flag right now, in every sense of the phrase that matters? 
J served, as did both my parents and many other members on both sides of the House, under the Australian flag. I do not know that we ever looked up to see whether it was vertically above us or to recognise its colours at every specific moment, but we served, as so many did, under the Australian flag in spirit, loyalty and determination and in our abiding allegiance. In championing the Moratorium, the Leader of the Opposition knows that this Moratorium with its Vietcong flags and its Vietcong slogans has received since the grateful thanks of Hanoi, In a separate talk on the Vietnam Moratorium in Australia, Radio Hanoi said - and I quote from a report: 
The current anti-war movement in Australia is providing practical support for the Vietnamese people's . . . fight for national salvation. 
Yes, the thanks of Hanoi are heard for those who took part in this demonstration. So, was the Leader of the Opposition serving under the Australian flag or under the Vietcong flag? This is the kind of issue that the nation will be asked to judge. 
I turn now to the second charge that was levelled against the Prime Minister. The Deputy Leader of the Opposition charges that the Prime Minister tabled a falsified photograph in this House. Falsified! With what purpose was it falsified? Was it falsified to show that the Leader of the Opposition was nearer than in reality to a Vietcong flag? How was this achieved? Was it achieved by trimming off the surrounds, allegedly removing evidence of a roadway between the man and the flag? But that is humbug because every version of the photograph shows a vehicle on that roadway between the man and the flag. What then was the falsification? Was it because persons carrying out their professional activities of trimming prints left a little more in one print than another? That is all. That is precisely all. No more, no less. This is the basis of the charge of supposed high seriousness that we have heard today as the basis for the call for a vote of no confidence in the Prime Minister and the Government. What a contempt of Parliament there must surely be behind such trivia being masqueraded and paraded as one of the most important motions which can be moved in this place. 
The third charge is that the Prime Minister misused the services of a Government department for purely party political purposes. This, too, would be serious if it could be substantiated. The Prime Minister has given, long weeks ago, his reasons for the use of photography in terms of evidence of reality to offset deliberate attempts to frame the police. Now, I do not fully share his attitude at this point. The use of different lenses and different camera fittings can change perspectives. We must be very careful indeed of this kind of thing. But photographs have been used for a very long time in legal evidence and there are rules and methods for avoiding their misuse. No suggestion of misuse can be made in this case, however, because there are dozens of eye witnesses who are prepared to swear to the facts that are depicted in the photographs. This is what actually happened on this occasion. I quote from a memorandum prepared by the Prime Minister's Press Secretary setting out the chain of events. It reads: o The Prime Minister wanted a record of the Moratorium in case of disturbances. o At the Prime Minister's direction, this office - the Press Secretary's - requested the News and Information Bureau to take a photographic record of the Moratorium. o As there were no particular incidents, the Prime Minister did not seek prints, nor did he sec any prints. o At the end of Moratorium Day, the Press Secretary advised ANIB there was no requirement for prints, and negatives were to be put on file. 
 The first time that prims were called for were on the following Thursday morning (24th) when the House was debating whether or not there were Vietcong flags at the Moratorium. 
 The Press Secretary  asked  the Bureau to send over a set of prints, and the picture as tabled was amongst them. 
 No directions had been given on the trimming of the print. 
 At the request of the Press, further prints of the picture as tabled were obtained from the Bureau. 
The honourable member who tabled the photograph did so as described by the Press Secretary in the chamber without consultation with the Prime Minister. This is the totality of the situation. I personally accept that entirely. 
If the Bureau took many photographs for its own purposes, that is its own affair, lt has long been its practice to photograph occasions such as this for purposes not remotely connected with party political purposes. For example, I hold up to the House this magnificent publication entitled Two Centuries' which sets out to show all facets of Australian life and of the Australian people including people engaged in protest demonstrations, lt was printed many, many months ago and no doubt it has pride of place in the private libraries of most honourable members. Honourable members will see, if they look through it, photographs taken by the Bureau of protest occasions. 
So, I suggest to the House that all three charges can be seen to be hollow and trivial, as they must have been seen to be by those who concocted them. But they were desperate men indeed. They were desperate to throw a smokescreen over the dangerous and destructive self -revelation of their Leader during the past week. The real questions before this House are indeed questions of credibility and veracity. Is the question of this bour, the question of most concern to Australia, the question of the propriety of what the Prime Minister has done, or allowed to be done, in this case or is it the question of the propriety of the actions of the Leader of the Opposition on Wednesday night last and following days? ls it a question of the credibility of the Prime Minister when he asserts plainly his reasons for asking for a photographic record of the Moratorium, or is it the credibility of the Leader of the Opposition when he says: '1 saw no Vietcong flags . . .'? Is it a question of confidence in ihe Prime Minister to lead this nation is die face of Communist motivated actions at home and abroad, or of confidence in the honourable member for Werriwa to lead any longer what I still prefer to call  Her  Majesty's Opposition? I leave the nation to decide and I am confident what that decision will be. 
Perhaps the crowning provocation of this charade this afternoon was the appearance before the despatch box of the honourable member for Lalor. This is the man who took over the first Moratorium from the parsons. Honourable members will recall the events at the National Methodist Memorial Church in Canberra on 25th November last. The then Reverend John Lloyd convened a meeting which was attended by 12 senators of this Parliament. The objective was to organise a moratorium to campaign for two things: First, the withdrawal of Australian and all other foreign troops from Vietnam and, secondly, the repeal of the National Service Act. A co-ordinating committee was set up under  Mr Lloyd's  leadership. On 9th December last year, it agreed to hold the Moratorium on 1 8th April. Later, the honourable member for Lalor, who took over the chairmanship of the committee, announced that the dates had been changed to 8th May and 10th May. On 9th February, much dispute took place about the change of date. But what did the honourable member for Lalor do? What could he do? The decision to make 8th May the date appears to have been taken already - and elsewhere - overseas. 
 The Executive Bureau of the  WFTU  - that is, the World Federation of Trade Unions; a Communist front with which the Australian Council of Trade Unions is not in communion - met in Khartoum from 24th to 26th February, lt published an Appeal to the Trade Unions and Workers of the World' to make 8th May a 'day of action for world peace'. The date would of course have been decided long before the Federation met in session. Did it choose the date because it had heard of  Dr Cairns'  choice of 8th May, did the honourable member choose it, was he told to arrange it by persons in common or was it mere coincidence? Perhaps we will never know. 
What is known, however, is that the honourable member told demonstrators at the Moratorium: 
This is the only way to express the will of the people. There are so many people who appear not to know what democracy is. Democracy is action by the people - on the farms, in the factories and in the streets. If it does not start there we will have no democracy at all. 
He added that anyone who believes that democracy starts in Parliament is subject to 'a great delusion'. 
So that is perhaps why we have been faced with this farcical situation today, why the work of Parliament has been set aside for today; why the most serious processes of Parliament have been prostituted to try to provide a smokescreen over the actions of the Leader of the Opposition who, on his own admission, has gone out to advise young men to ignore the decisions of this Parliament, to flout the provisions of Acts democratically enacted by the Parliament for the nation's defence, to scorn the law enforcement bodies and especially those in them honourably discharged from the Queen's service and to advise the troops in the field in the face of the very enemy, to refuse to continue to fight. There is a pattern to all of these things. It is a pattern that this nation will ignore at its dire peril. 
We now have an Opposition revealed in all its facets - the trade union section some months ago calling for mutiny in the field; its left wing, represented by the honourable member for Lalor, and now its Leader and its  Deputy  Leader and his heir apparent all united in support of actions giving aid and comfort to our enemies. Those are the true issues of the confidence vote tonight and I leave the House and the nation to judge. 
 I am afraid that I could not follow the speech of the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron).  I doubt whether many honourable members could, but perhaps we can read it tomorrow. I address myself to the question of the national service aspect of the particular subject before us. The last two or three days have seen the question of national service in great prominence in this Parliament. It has been the issue at stake behind much of what has occurred in this place. It has been the advice given or comments made upon the subject of national service that has been the cause of a great deal of debate and upheaval. 
For goodness sake: Do you mind? The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  in replying to the speech which I made in this place last night, saw fit once again, as he has done for some 7 years - it is about time that he desisted from this practice - to draw attention in some slighting way to the fact of my background being that of a Presbyterian minister. 1 am not ashamed of my background; to the contrary. But it is not the central issue with what I am here at this moment to do - to represent the constituents of Evans and the Party for which I stand. The implication was made last night that because there was another Presbyterian clergyman and myself in this place and the subject of national service was being discussed, in some way we were guilty men - to use the words of the Leader of the Opposition - because we had not adopted the Labor Party's altitude to the subject of conscription for national service. Reference was made to decisions of church courts in time past. 
Before I get on to the rest of the matte I should like simply to make my own position clear once and for all. The Presbyterian Church, like most other Christian churches of which I am aware, does have a very definite attitude to this whole question of the obligation between church and state, lt holds that the state has a valid and necessary place in society and that a Christian has a duty towards the state and the rulers of the state. In other words, it does not mean that to become a Christian is to escape to an ivory tower of perfection, to separate oneself from one's fellows. A Christian is identified with the aspirations and agonies of the other members of the society around him. He shares in the struggle with his fellows to build a better, more just, fairer and cleaner society and world. He is called upon with them to participate in this travail, with all the imperfections of human society, with its lack of blacks and whites and its many areas of grey. He has to take cognisance of this fact, and being a Christian does not excuse him from the ordinary obligations of men and of members of a state or society. 
The reformed church of which I am a member makes the position of church and state very clear. So for the benefit of the Leader of the Opposition and others who may feel that in some way perhaps there was an abdication on my part from the traditions and teachings of the Church, let mc quote the Westminster Confession of Faith which every Presbyterian minister is called upon at his ordination to recognise as being a standard of the church subordinate only to that of Holy Writ itself. It states that it is the duty of Christians to pray for their civil rulers, to honour their persons, to pay taxes levied by them, to obey their lawful commands and to be subject to their authority for conscience sake. 
With regard to the authority of the state to wage war, it is explicitly stated that Christians may lawfully wage war upon just and necessary occasions', and that God has ordained that the civil authority has been given 'the power of the sword for the defence and encouragement of litem that are good and for the punishment of evil doers'. This was indeed an ancient document, but it is still maintained as one of the standards of the Church today. War is no different today, in the moral sense, from what it was in the days of the first Christians or of the reformers. Brutality, hatred, fear, injustice, destruction, innocent suffering and death have always been the attendants of war from time immemorial. But nevertheless, throughout the centuries Christians have never as a group adjudged that the evils attendant upon war were the greatest evils or dangers besetting mankind. If the state, according to the Christian faith, has the right and indeed the duty to use the ultimate sanction of war, then it follows that the state has a corresponding right and duty with regard to what it requires of its citizens in responding to these unhappy but necessary occasions. 
Having said that much in making the position clear, as I understand it, from the teachings of the Church and the traditions of Christiandom, let me turn to the current situation. This Government - the lawfully elected Government of this state - has maintained and stated that it believes that national service is essential in the national interest to maintain the Army at the level required now and in the future, and the majority of the Australian community would appear to share this view. We cannot have security treaty arrangements unless those with whom we are partners know that we have and will maintain sufficient armed forces to honour those obligations. So each year for some years past there have been 2 national service registrations in which a total of 100,000 men, in round figures, are required to register for national service. Approximately 6 weeks after the close of the registration period a ballot is conducted to select sufficient men who remain liable for service to ensure that a call-up of a mere 8,400 fit men for the Army each year takes place. 
Now let us look at some of the figures because the whole subject of national service has been under grave question and attack in our society. The reasons may be many and various but they can hardly relate to the overall scrupulous avoidance of any kind of favouritism or of sectional interest intruding into this situation. Of some 530,000 men registered to date, 43,000 have been called up and enlisted in the Regular Army while a further 12,000 have decided, at the time of their registration, that their service should be through the avenue of the Citizen Military Forces as an alternative to full time national service. Of this number  -  530,000 registering, 43,000 being called up - fewer than 100 have failed to report for service since the inception of the scheme in 1965. I maintain that this in itself is an indication that in our society today, for all the noise, the fury and the furore of the militant vocal minority, there is a great and wide acceptance of the necessity for national defence and, as part of it, for national service. 
There is a realisation that wc are living in days rather different from those depicted by the honourable member for Hindmarsh who preceded me in this debate, who appeared with great gloom, the gloom in which he revels so often in this place, to describe an Australia which would appear to be in its last stages of decay of all industrial peace or progress. On the contrary, we are living at a time when we see unparalleled development economically. Of course there are areas of tension in the economic sense and there are industrial reasons for the upheavals which take place all too frequently, but on examination it is most unfair to suggest that those causes are in any way to be sheeted home to the Government's activities. 
Nevertheless we are living in an opulent society. It is a society in which young men everywhere have unprecedented opportunities to earn large salaries while they are still teenagers. While they are still unmarried they may earn money that our fathers would have been amazed to contemplate as an ordinary working man's wages. Yet in this society it is fondly expected by our opponents that young men would volunteer in sufficient numbers to take upon themselves the onerous duties of national service for national defence. It has been proved to be not so, and the Government has been forced, in honouring its obligations and its duties both to this country and our allies, to legislate for compulsory national service. 
In the situation which has emerged there has come about a whole series of ways in which the conscience and the attitude of young mcn to the war or wars in which we have been engaged can be accommodated. Indeed there would be no country in the Western world to which a critic could point which has gone out of its way more than has this country to afford an avenue for thu conscience of individuals to be respected, and indeed even the political views of individuals - this is surely what applies to objection to service in a particular war in a particular zone - to be accommodated. Even political views can be accommodated. These persons can readily avoid the necessity to serve in a particular zona if they are prepared to undertake the honourable duty of joining the Citizen Military Forces and undertaking their training to serve society while they are at the same time earning their living. 
But there is one particular issue which is coming before this House and of which notice has been given by the Opposition. We will hear a great deal more of it in the immediate future. It relates to an amendment of the regulations by the Government, which I personally welcome. We have seen circumstances in the past where courses of study undertaken by young men, for various reasons - perhaps because of the length of their course of studies, perhaps because of tragedies in their families or an inability to continue a course for a year or so, perhaps due to failure in a year - have gone beyond that point where, if they were to continue and complete the course, they would be able to complete their military obligations before reaching 26 years of age. The studies have thus had to be interrupted. So the amendment to the regulation has been introduced to assist such students, particularly those who are undertaking lengthy courses of study. This, in my view, is a sensible and generous attitude on the part of the Government. It Ls a reasonable attitude and one which I think most people would applaud. But undoubtedly there have been others who have had a different attitude to this age limit of 26 years. 1 have here a document titled 'The Ins and Outs of Conscription' which sets out to give a framework for those who seek to avoid military service. One of the first pieces of advice given to a young man who seeks to avoid his military obligations and who seeks to do so before he registers is that he should leave the country if he can and not return before his twenty-sixth birthday. In some way the idea has grown up that if he reaches the age of 26 years he is beyond the age where he should be called up. 
The nub of the matter is that the Government has made provision for the exemption of genuine young men - people who are students and those who have no real objection to military service and are prepared to follow through their . obligations - who can still undertake service up to the age of 30. They may now continue their courses up to and past the age of 26. The suggestion is being made by the Opposition, however, that somehow or other this whole thing should be scrapped at least for non-students, and the limit of 26 years retained. If it were, the dodgers of any form of national service, those who would get out of the country which has supported them up to a certain age and to which in the future after turning 26 years of age, _.. . .they, look to. provide them with their liveli-hood and protection, would skulk out of the country. They would come back only after they had reached the age of 26 and then take up their life again, safe and secure and bludging on other people's services to the nation. If this is the suggestion behind the Opposition's proposal, as I believe it to be, then all I can say is that it is exposed as being on all fours with many other arguments that we have heard in this place or have been reported in the Press and quoted in this place. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Trade and Industry in relation to his responsibility for tourism. Will the Minister accept a petition signed by over 600 girls of Canterbury Girls High School with respect to the preservation and conservation of the Great Barrier Reef? Will the Minister personally acknowledge the petition which, although not in the regular form required by the Standing Orders, is in respectful terms and shows an admirable concern for Australia's natural assets on the part of the pupils of this school and which was delivered to me personally in front of the whole school? 
My question to the Minister for Labour and National Service relates to the laws governing national service. Has there been a change in the legal position, expounded by experts from the days of Dicey to the most recent book by Professor Geoffrey Sawer. that we have 2 kinds of laws - enacted laws and nonenacted laws? Is the Leader of the Opposition justified in limiting bis description of legal measures relative to national service to enacted or statutory law? 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation seen official suggestions in New South Wales that home owners in Sydney might be expected to try to soundproof their homes against aircraft noise at a cost of several thousand dollars a time? Has this proposition been a failure when tried elsewhere - to say nothing of the cost? Will the Minister seek an urgent review of the possibility of applying, apparently, the only practical answer - using a site far distant from Sydney and employing an ultra-high-speed monorail train, possibly above existing rail tracks, to reduce travelling time to little more than that taken for the current trek from the city to Mascot? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for External Affairs also. Has the Foreign Minister seen reference in this Parliament from honourable members opposite to so-called 'aggression' by United States troops in Cambodia and their 'invasion' of Cambodia? Is this a tenable view of events? ls it a fact that Cambodia was purposefully invaded by the North Vietnamese at least a month before any South Vietnamese or United States forces entered Cambodian territory? Was the entry of the allies at the express invitation of General Lon Nol? Finally, if any honourable members doubt these facts, will the Minister arrange for those honourable members to meet senators of Cambodia now in this House so as to get their facts straight? 
Has the Prime Minister been shocked by the extremism behind the actions leading to the mutilation and strangling of the Canadian Minister in the last few days? Is this shock, shared by most Australians, in any way due to an underestimation of the seriousness behind anarchist and extremist groups in many countries today? As most Canadians probably once shared our view that it  cannot  happen here, will the Prime Minister give thought to any measures which it may be wise to keep constantly in review regarding the activities and intentions of extremist groups in Australia such as those mentioned by the Leader of the Opposition in the last question, particularly those which deliberately inflame these attitudes? 
I ask the Prime Minis  ter: How safe is the advice that by our withdrawing from Vietnam we will put an end to the war there? Should we disband bush fire brigades so that fires will not come near our country centres? Should we withdraw all resistance to cost increases to end inflation? 
My question is supplementary to the one which has just been answered. I would like the Minister for Defence to give the House a further assurance that it is not the intention, and it has not been the intention, of the Government to reduce the sum of $500,000 for the housing of members of the Regional Force, or to reduce the other sums that he has mentioned, because of the financial stringency or austerity programme upon which we are now engaged? 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. A subsequent question apparently has given the impression that my appeal to you earlier was directed largely against members of the Opposition, t want to make it quite clear that I was not criticising Opposition members only. 
Am I to take it from the motion that has been moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  that in the event of any stranger entering this Parliament and making allegations against the whole propriety and conduct of the Parliament from the public or Press galleries this, immediately opens for debate the subject matter on which he chooses to interject and to bring business before this Parliament in such a highly irregular manner? I suggest that this motion is out of order. 
I ask you,  Mr Speaker,  with indulgence to consider that two things have been proposed to you in that: motion. One was to bring to the notice of the Chair this conduct which, in itself, is something quite apart from its subject matter and content of which you and the House should take cognisance. The other was an entirely different matter, the subject matter of the interjection which it is proposed should be open to debate. I suggest they are two entirely different matters and 1 would suggest, with respect, that the former is that to which we should now address ourselves. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is it a fact that China, without consulting Laos, has constructed an allweather road across the north of that country leading to the borders of Thailand, and is that road guarded by thousands of front line Chinese troops with the most modern weapons? Is the Minister aware that the great majority of the Australian people appear to be ignorant cf the fact that China has thus long ago invaded Laos? What can be done to inform the nation of these events, especially when criticism is heard of South Vietnamese actions in Laos as being likely to provoke China? 
The White Ensign Club in Victoria is, to the best of my knowledge, intended to be a self-supporting institution. It has, over recent years, been steadily losing money mainly because sailors' habits with regard to spending their weekends ashore have changed somewhat. As a result the Club has gone into debt to the extent of between $20,000 and $30,000 and it has been decided to wind up the affairs of the Club. The Commonwealth has made a considerable gesture towards meeting this debt. The Navy Canteen Fund has contributed $5,000 and has indicated that it will stand by with other sums if necessary. Having regard to the honourable member's concern for young sailors I point out that HMAS 'Lonsdale' provides accommodation if it is required. The sailors' clubs at HMAS 'Flinders' also provide for these young men. At HMAS Leeuwin', in Western Australia, there is an excellent scheme of sponsorship whereby members of the public may look after young sailors. In the light of the honourable member's question I will have inquiries made about the number of personnel who may be involved and if it is substantial the matter will certainly get close attention. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 

1968. 161 accidents, 
1969, 181 accidents. 
1970, 151 accidents. 

civilians - 
1968, 10 injured; 1969. 16 injured; 1970, 10 injured. 
1968. nil killed: 1969, nil killed: 1970, I killed. 
Navy personnel - 
1968, 11 injured; 1969, 19 injured: 1970. 10 injured. 
1968, nil killed; 1969, nil killed; 1970, nil killed. 
Navy personnel charged with offences - 
1968, 9. 
1969, 4. 
1970,  2. 
 The answer to the honour able member's questions are as follows: 
The great majority of motor vehicle accidents in which Naval personnel are involved occur when they are travelling in privately owned vehicles and in their own time. Consequently there are no authoritative Service records of. the circumstances in which these accidents occur or of the contributing causes. These accidents are reported to the local police in accordance with local traffic law and included in the ordinary way in any relevant statistics compiled by the civil authorities. Convictions of naval personnel in the civil courts, arising from such accidents, are similarly included in any relevant statistics compiled by the civil authorites. 
If the question is taken to include vehicles on hire to the Navy, for example those owned by the Department of Supply and supplied on hire, the details in respect of such vehicles are as follows: 

1968, 6 accidents, 
1969, 10 accidents, 
1970, 7 accidents. 

civilians - 
1968, 1 injured; 1969, 1 injured; 1970. 2 injured. 
1968. nil killed; 1969, nil killed; 1970, nil killed. 
Navy personnel - 
1968, nil injured; 1969, 2 injured; 1970, 1 injured. 
1968, nil killed; 1969, nil killed; 1970, nil killed. 
Navy personnel charged with offences: 1968 nil; 
1969, 1; 
1970, nil. 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
Number of persons who applied and were enlisted in the RAN. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
This matter has received some publicity in the last 24 hours or so. The situation as I understand it is this: The Royal Australian Navy- 
The question of patrolling Australia's very lengthy coastline is, of course, one which is currently receiving, and has been receiving for some time, considerable thought by the departments concerned. It is not just a question for the Royal Australian Navy but one also for those departments that ure concerned with fisheries and primary industry. There is an area of debate relating to whether or not this should be a naval function or a kind of coastguard activity or a civil police type of activity. The Navy is well aware of the requirement but is also very circumscribed at the moment in terms of its areas of surveillance. Indeed, its activities in many areas are restricted to perhaps one or two voyages a month. Nevertheless, the Navy is looking ahead to this whole question of its activities in the light ship and light destroyer area. For the first time in our history we are moving away from the background of depending on the Royal Navy, in the first instance, for the provision of these ships, and more recently on the DDG's from America. We are beginning to design and will be building in Australia our own light destroyers that will give teeth to the task of looking after the safety of our coastline and the commercial interests operating along it. I think the honourable member can be assured that this matter is receiving current and urgent attention. 
The honourable member's question reflects speculation that has been rife  in  the Press and elsewhere for some days and I welcome  the  opportunity to make the position clear. The situation is that from time immemorial it has been a tradition in the Navy that watchkeeping officers do not drink at sea. In 1968 I made a statement in this House in which I drew an analogy with a civil airliner. I think it would be very hard to say that a civil airliner is dry, but it is dry in respect of the flight deck and those who are on duty. Since I have taken over this portfolio I have examined the existing regulations applying to the use of alcohol at sea. I find that they are more stringent than 1 had expected to find. Since the war days there has been a clear delineation of the regulations applying to the Navy. I am more than satisfied with the provisions of those regulations. The Fleet has been informed and knows that there is no substance in any speculation about a change in the existing conditions. 
 I have no quarrel at all - I am sure no thinking member in the House has any quarrel - with the genuine urgency of the need for road safety and increasing provisions for road safety in Australia. 
However, the matter of public importance by the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  is in these terms: 
The failure of the Commonwealth Government to initiate a national policy to reduce Australia's tragic road toll. 
Australia does have a. tragic road toll. There is no doubt about that. At a meeting last night 1 was told, apropos of the recent examinations in New South Wales for the Higher School Certificate, that 800 students who commenced the examination did not complete it because they were involved in road accidents. I think it gives an immediate realisation to us of the seriousness  -if  the subject that we are discussing. Recently an expert in Australia when commenting on this subject said that one in every family of 4 young people will be a victim of a road accident, statistically speaking, during his lifetime; that 90 per cent of serious accidents in Australia are caused by human error of some kind; that 50 per cent of the fatalities are on straight roads - that is straight roads which are outside city and suburban limits; and that the cause of 30 per cent of all deaths in the 17 to 29 age group is road accidents. These are salutary facts and, of course, any government, any thinking person at any level of influence or responsibility in the community, should pay attention to them. 
But the fact remains that these accidents can be caused only in one or other of 3 domains. They are caused because of something wrong in terms of the roads, something wrong in terms of the vehicles or something wrong in terms of the people who use both. When we look at these areas and begin to talk about Commonwealth responsibilities, I think we realise that these areas themselves indicate where the Commonwealth should most properly direct its attention. In the area of roads and in the areas of vehicles there are aspects on which the Commonwealth, because of its constitutional position and responsibility, can properly be heard. But in the third area where this expert teds u? that 90 per cent of serious accidents are caused by human behaviour, it is realised immediately that this is the constitutional responsibility of the States themselves. 
The question of drinking and driving, which both Opposition speakers stated was behind 50 per cent of road accidents, is clearly a police matter. Clearly it is related to the criminal or social laws of the States. Similarly, enforcement of the recognition and obedience of the laws and rules regarding the use of roads is also a matter for the States. The Minister for Shipping and Transport has already made it abundantly clear that the Commonwealth has expressed concern about the condition of roads. The Commonwealth has given a great deal of assistance by setting up the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads. Indeed, a few minutes ago I rang the State Minister for Transport in New South Wales,  Mr Milton  Morris, and asked him to tell me quite frankly what he thought about the role of the Commonwealth regarding his own area of responsibility. I should like to tell honourable members what  Mr Morris  feels about the Commonwealth. He said that over and over again at Australian Transport Advisory Council meetings State Ministers repeat that road safety is primarily a Slate matter. He went on to say that rather than duplicate the work which is already being done by the States, it would be far better for the Commonwealth to come to the States' aid financially. Then he added - and I quote him exactly because I took the words down as he said them: 'We believe the Commonwealth is playing its part as far as road safety is concerned.' He said that $150,000 was contributed by the Commonwealth to enable an investigation to be made by the traffic accident research unit in New South Wales without even a request being made by the State to the Commonwealth. He said that the Commonwealth look real responsibility and initiative. This is the view of a State Minister who is vitally concerned with this question of road safety. Anyone who knows the way in which  Mr Morris  conducts himself in New South Wales and the immediacy of his interest in and concern for road safety in that State cannot but pay heed to what he has said.  His  judgment is that the Commonwealth has come handsomely to the party in supporting the activities of the States. 
Of course, this is not to say that enough is being done. I had hoped that as I listened to this debate in the House a matter of public importance I would have heard some new matters raised by the Opposition: something which would give to us a new hope in our attempt to tackle this problem of reducing the road toll which appals all of us. We ourselves could quite easily be involved in a road accident tonight or tomorrow. But what did we hear from the  speaker  who led for the Opposition, the honourable member for Newcastle? He drew attention to the claim that Australia has' one of the worst road accident records in the world. But he did not tell us whether these figures were computed on a per capita basis, which would be one side of the story, or whether they were computed on a per car basis, which would be quite different, because I think it is true to say that we rank second highest in the world in terms of per capita ownership of motor vehicles. 
The honourable member for Newcastle then went on to tell us that we should improve road structures in Australia. Of course, this is desirable. He also mentioned that $ 50,000m is being expended in the United States of America on its truly magnificent network of roads. But I remember that a large amount of money has been spent on  expressways between  Newcastle and Sydney in New South Wales, and although the percentage figures were quoted and did not sound impressive, certainly there are areas on the Calga expressway, which is a magnificent highway, where accidents happen with sickening regularity. 
I refer to the question of seat belts. I, too, like the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  owe my life to the wearing of a seat belt. My wife also owes her life to the wearing of a seat belt because she was with me on this occasion. Seat belts are a must. I believe that any sane person who is travelling on the road in a motor vehicle should wear a seat belt. I trust that the initiative taken by Victoria will be emulated by every other State. But surely this is nothing startlingly new. I think there has been a nation-wide campaign to persuade people to use seat belts, and if any indication of the psychological factor is needed, the honourable member for Newcastle provided it himself when he told us that over the Easter period there were 14 road deaths in Victoria and that only one of those 14 people killed was wearing a seat belt. This is the State in which there is legislation which provides for the compulsory wearing of seat belts. It proves the point which the honourable member made, but it also proves the point which I am trying to make, that is, that behind the whole question of road safety is this element of human behaviour about which neither the Commonwealth nor the States nor any other outside person can legislate. 
Surely the appeal is not to say: 'Blame the Commonwealth because we have not had spend on our roads $50,000m', or a proportion of it in terms of the Australian population, or not to say that we should blame the States because they in their turn are not doing enough. Instead we should say that a new kind of concern is needed by every person in this nation in terms of the utilisation of the roads, because I am sure that we were getting very close to the bone when the Opposition speakers themselves drew attention to the human aspects involved in the use of the roads, such as failing to give way to the right or failing to keep to the left which some experts have listed as an even greater factor in accidents. These human behaviour aspects are so vitally important to consider. I welcome any discussion on road safety and I trust that this discussion which is being broadcast across the nation will cause drivers who are travelling home from work at the moment to drive more carefully and to wear their seat belts. While 1 trust that this discussion will have a salutary and positive effect, I do not believe that the question of road safety as represented here is a matter of urgency for this Parliament. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, if the facts were anything like those that have just been presented to the House by the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  then of course everyone in the nation should be concerned. But I believe that on most material points that he has made in his speech he is grievously in error, as I will now try to show to the House. The matter of public importance that is before the House refers to the threat to the national interest in 3 areas. The first is pollution, the second is the squandering of the reserves of coking coal on the South Coast of New South Wales and the third refers to the sea bed vis-a-vis the Commonwealth's sovereign rights. I intend to deal with the latter two points first because pollution is by far the greatest issue. 
First of all, let me deal with this question of coking coal reserves. Actually, this discussion with regard to these particular leases - if the word 'leases' is understood aright by the honourable member for Hughes - is totally irrelevant because the leases for the extraction or the mining of this coal already exist. These leases to which reference is now being made relate to the facilities for the railway and the loader. So what is being suggested here is that in regard to leases which have been granted, in common with the practice of granting mining leases throughout the State of New South Wales and the nation, there should in some way be an interference with the holder's right to exploit his resources; to exploit the resources within his own leases. That is the first point I want to make. 
However, let us look at the charge as far as the nation is concerned. It is said that if we allow these leases, already legally granted, to be exploited, we will deprive the nation of an extremely valuable asset. It is true that we have several hundred years resources of steaming coal. In terms of soft or highly volatile coking coal it is undoubtedly true that there is a reasonable supply in Australia. But it is admitted that the supply of the harder coals is not, as at present known, unlimited. The New South Wales Government has given me an assurance - and the Commonwealth Government likewise has reiterated it - that in determining mining leases and mining policy, the continuing prime concern is that there should be adequate reserves for the indigenous steel industry as at present envisaged or as it may be envisaged in the immediate future. 
There is need for continuous drilling and and for continuous proving up and assessing of the reserves because it is in this way that new discoveries are made. There was a time when we were told - and this continued through the history of oil exploration - that the world was running out of reserves of oil, but every year sees known reserves increase faster than consumption. With regard to iron ore, it is not long since Australia was told by its most eminent consultants that we should not be exporting iron ore from Australia because we needed it for our own production. But hundreds of years of supplies at a world level have already been discovered in Australia and more are continually being discovered. Of course, in addition to this there is no guarantee that coking coal and the process which involves the use of coking coal in the reduction of iron ore is going to be the most efficient and the necessary way in which industry will proceed in the future. Like wool and synthetics, new discoveries are continually being made and place these assets in a different light. 1 turn to the other question regarding the sea bed. The statement has just been made to the House that a jetty or pier will be built from the shore some 5,000 yards out into the ocean. This is completely and utterly misleading. The facts are that it is possible, and indeed probable, that the jetty will be 3,000 feet long which will enable a workable depth of 75 feet of water for the swinging of these ships. This should be adequate, although some consultants say that perhaps the jetty should be 4,100 feet long, which would give a workable depth at low water mark of 90 feet. These figures were supplied to me today by the Minister for Mines of New South Wales. The actual level of the pier is subject to an agreement which has yet to be lodged with the State of New South Wales. 
The point was made that the Commonwealth Government had done something special when it said that it would exempt Clutha Development Pty Ltd from the provisions of any future legislation which the Commonwealth might introduce regarding the exploitation of minerals on the sea bed. 
It is a normal standing agreement between the Commonwealth and the States that, should a State enter into a mining lease agreement for off-shore minerals in the period before the legislation comes into effect - if it ever does - and if this agreement is first submitted to the Commonwealth Government for approval, this will be honoured by the Commonwealth when any future legislation comes into effect. There is nothing special whatsoever about the arrangement with Clutha. 
The real matter for discussion is pollution, plus the overtones of a suggestion that this is a sell-out to a foreign company. Let us look at the question of pollution. Pollution is a word that is very easily bandied around the nation and around the world at this time. What is pollution? I suppose it could be said that pollution is any change in the primitive or pristine environment - any change from the simplicity of the natural situation. It could be said that the first Aboriginal bark shelter was a polluting influence or that the first white man's homestead - or would it be the first 2 homesteads, the first 4, the first 1,000 or the first 1,000,000- is an example of pollution. Where does pollution begin and reasonable development lead off? Is it when a mine is set up in a particular area, such as Mount Isa where there are now lovely homes, a beautiful lake and unspoiled hills surrounding it? It would be a ridiculous situation to close the mine because it continually poses a threat of pollution to the environment in those terms. In my book, pollution is the unnecessary, ugly or dangerous change in the environment which is not in the best interests of the community; not just in terms of finance and economics but culturally and physically in terms of its health or in terms of the real security of people. 
Pollution is a feature of the urban sprawl today. It is a feature of the population explosion and of interference with nature by science and so on. Natural laws are being assailed continually by modern man. It is a form of pollution, if you like, that we have challenged the old law of the survival of the fittest, because now, with modern science and medicine, we decree that the unfit shall survive. In addition to birth control, we have death control and the population explosion takes over. Pollution is as easy catchcry but we are all in it, 
We demand it. Everyone of us here demands pollution of some kind, especially when our own self-interest or individual interest is at stake, even if it is driving a motor car with one person in it into the city day by day. But society has been stirred, and thank goodness it has been stirred, to re-think the great problems of pollution as it is developing and threatening man today. 
Let us look at a situation on the south coast of New South Wales in the light of that and ask ourselves: Is this a case of pollution? Is it unnecessary? Is it ugly? Is it dangerous to health? Is it not in the best interests of the community in terms of economy and of their physical health, culture and security? What are the facts? 1 ask honourable members to examine this matter of public importance and the way in which the facts have been presented to the House. I suggest to the House that there are mining leases in existence in New South Wales for the mining of coal which have been and still are a substantial basis for the whole development of the economy and for the whole civilised development of New South Wales. They have been one of its prime bases of development. Exports have risen from 1 million tons in 1959-60 to 12 million tons in 1969-70. The present facilities in New South Wales are hopelessly inadequate. For instance, Wollongong is a port that has a maximum capacity for 40,000-ton vessels and we all know that, these days, vessels in excess of 100,000 tons are necessary to enable necessary economies in the conveyance of bulk cargo. Clutha is already a major exporter from southern and south western coalfields and it would be necessary to extract immense sums of money from the public purse to enable the facilities to be built to expand and continue to develop this important mining industry. The railway that is envisaged will go from Oakdale - where, incidentally, coal mines already exist and are being mined and have been mined for years right alongside Burragorang and the Warragamba Dam - to Coalcliff. This railway will not at any point go inside or traverse a metropolitan water supply catchment area as was said by the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson).  There will be a stockpile at Coalcliff and a conveyor belt will carry the coal down the cliff and out to the loading facility. A charge will be made for the use of this facility. We have heard a figure of $100m compared with the income to Clutha over a 20-year period. What is this figure of $100m? 
There will be SI 00m of income to New South Wales compared with % 1,800m to Clutha. The facts of this situation should have been studied and should not have been made the basis of an emotional kind of appeal. The SI 00m relates only to the charges for the use of this facility, which will be built with the company's own money. In no way does it refer to the normal royalties that are being charged and will be charged to this company for every ton of coal that it extracts in the normal process. Here we have the situation where there is a saving to the people of New South Wales of the kind of charges on the public purse that, up until recently,, were normal and natural. The Government normally provides the jetties, the wharves and the rail facilities, but in this case the private company will supply these things and will pay for their use. At the end of 50 years, having paid at a determined rate in addition to its royalty payments, the company, under the agreement, is obliged to offer, at the ValuerGeneral's valuation, these facilities back to the nation. I fail to see where this is a bad deal. 
I do have not time this afternoon to describe all the multifarious ways in which the agreement will control pollution. The agreement has not been finalised, because it is still in the feasibility stage and has yet to be brought before the Government. The second reading speech of the Minister in the New South Wales Parliament was most illuminating in respect of the lease conditions. I would challenge anyone to point to one area of potential pollution of the water supply of the area or to say that reasonable caution and care have not been taken against the coal dust menace or other factors which could be a menace to health. There is a tremendous number of ways in which the holder of this lease will be obliged to take care. He must use the most modern methods for the transportation of his coal. A further saction for compliance with the terms of the agreement lies in the fact that one of the requirements is that the lessee shall lodge  a  deposit - an earnest - of $250,000 or enter into a penal bond for that amount in case he breaches in any way or does not fulfil in their entirety the requirements of the lease that is to be granted. I fail to see that the honourable member for Hughes has made out his case. 
-The following information is provided to the honourable member's question: 
It is not, at this stage, the intention of my Department to station a naval patrol vessel at a South Australian port. Naval patrol boats are deployed, whenever possible, to areas specifically designated for fisheries' surveillance by the Department of my colleague, the Minister for Primary Industry. 
Ships of the RAN on transit through South Australian waters, or any other Australian waters are, however, required to report the sighting of foreign fishing vessels. They may, if operational commitments permit, also investigate and, if necessary, apprehend the foreign vessels. 
HMAS 'Melbourne' is undergoing a major refit which will carry her through most of the 1970s. In the course of this the catapult as well as the decking is not undergoing a complete realignment in the sense that a new catapult is being built, but the catapult is being brought up to as new condition, as it is one of the early catapults in service. It is about 15 years old. It will be brought to as new condition. It is hoped that as a result of this the 'Melbourne' will be able to discharge her duties until approximately 1980. As to the actual cost, I do not have the figure on the top of my head but 1 will get it for the honourable member. 
I seek leave to make a short statement to clear up a misunderstanding concerning an industrial situation at Williamstown dockyard. 
by leave - Immediately before coming into the House I was handed a telegram and a copy of a cutting from a recent Victorian newspaper which indicated that there could be considerable industrial upheaval as a result of a situation at Williamstown Naval Dockyard where it has been planned to hold an arts exhibition during the employees' lunch break. The story as related in the Press indicates that the management of the Dockyard felt that this exhibition would be better conducted elsewhere because of the heavy construction programme at the Dockyard. It is true, of course, that there is a very heavy programme on hand and for the future, and the management felt that the local town hall might be a more suitable venue. I totally disagree with this view. I believe that where an art exhibition of this kind can be held in the environment of the work place - in this case in the lunch room, where it will not interfere in any way with the work of the Dockyard - it should be encouraged. I welcome activities such as this provided the exhibition or other cultural activity is genuine and is held under reasonable auspices. In this case I understand that the National Gallery is organising the exhibition. I welcome the exhibition. Immediately I leave this chamber I will ask the Navy to take steps to give every assistance to the organisers and I will make my sentiments known to the management of the Dockyard. 
by leave - This morning's Press carried reports of a fracas at HMAS Leeuwin' during which junior recruit Shane Connolly received apparently superficial injuries. I am waiting for a full report from HMAS 'Leeuwin'. Newspaper reports suggest that despite strenuous official attempts to prevent any form of initiation, something of the kind may have occurred in this establishment. HMAS Leeuwin' has an annual target intake of 800 recruits taken from all over Australia, and up to this number are in residence at any one time. It is not surprising that among them, despite careful screening, there are from time to time some who have unacceptable belligerent or other forms of antisocial behaviour patterns. These are detected as quickly as possible and disciplined, or, in serious cases, removed from the Service. 
The Navy does not and will not tolerate any physically violent, degrading or bullying behaviour towards any of its members, especially its junior members. I have given instructions that commanding officers of our training institutions are to be doubly vigilant in investigating any suggestions of organised or ad hoc initiation procedures, especially those which entail physical violence and other undesirable forms of behaviour. Where these are suspected all appropriate steps are to be taken to put a stop to the practice and to afford full protection to anyone threatened by the perpetrators. In addition, all such circumstances are to be reported at once through the appropriate channels to the Second Naval Member. I shall visit HMAS 'Leeuwin' personally during the winter recess, among other things to inform myself on the progress of steps designed to prevent any recurrence of this kind of incident. Meanwhile, after a full report has been received I shall make a statement to the House as soon as it is practicable to do so. 
 I would like to say just this at this stage: I thank honourable members for the way in which they have received the attempt I have made to put all the facts that have come to my notice or been brought to my attention before the House immediately. I have done so with a desire that we might avoid misunderstandings that could be damaging to the Navy. I thank particularly the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  for what he said from his own personal observations of the leadership at 'Leeuwin'. 
However, I am disturbed by the fact of these 2 instances although, putting them in proportion, there are hundreds of young men of this age - they are between 151 and 161 years of age when they join for a year - in residence at any one time and one must naturally expect that there will be scuffles from time to time. But I trust that they can be kept without the serious consequences of at least one of these incidents. I want to assure the House that I am not intending to have the wool pulled over my eyes. To quote the words of the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly),  I do give an assurance that there will be a full and complete inquiry. But this, of course, will take time and whether the results of such an inquiry could be made available before the House rises is quite another matter. 
However, the case of Connolly will be heard by the commodore in charge in the next few days  -  I trust, as quickly as possible and then the House will be able to judge for itself whether, from the evidence that is adduced in that hearing, this was a case of initiation, bastardization or anything of that kind, or quite a different picture. From preliminary evidence and reports that have been given to me, on which I cannot expatiate because the matter is sub judge, I personally believe at this moment that it was more a case of a fight than of an initiation ceremony. However, I give an undertaking to the House that there will be a full and complete inquiry as to how this type of incident has come about in 'Leeuwin' so that steps may be taken, if practicable and necessary, to see that such incidents are not repeated. But, for the moment, I believe that I had best leave what has been said in the statement as the information available to the House. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The average age of Naval personnel excluding members of the Papua New Guinea Division and members of other Commonwealth Navies attached to the Royal Australian Navy who were serving on 31st December 1970 is 24.525 years. 
by leave - I thank the House and  the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  for their courtesy in allowing me to make a statement at this juncture. In recent days  there  have been several reports of incidents involving junior recruits in HMAS 'Leeuwin' where it has  been  suggested that initiation or similar practices have given rise to physical violence or other forms of bullying behaviour. The Navy is most concerned al the implications of these reports as it is proud of its training establishments  and  regards itself as in loco parentis to junior recruits in HMAS Leeuwin'. 
Consequently, I have today requested His Honour Judge Rapke of the Victorian County Court to proceed to Western Australia to investigate these allegations. His Honour has wide experience of Service matters, having acted in an honorary capacity as Judge Advocate-General of the Navy since 1963. He will consider and report to me, if at all possible before the House rises in deference to requests last night from the Opposition's front bench that this might be so, firstly, on whether there is any evidence of the existence of any form of initiation or similar practices in HMAS 'Leeuwin' which involve organised physical violence, degrading or bullying behaviour and, secondly, whether there is evidence over recent years of any pattern of undue physical violence or bullying among the junior recruits. 
The Royal Australian Navy, in keeping with British naval tradition, has a long history of choosing names very carefully and purposely for its vessels. Proud traditions build up behind those names which are transferred from time to time as new ships are added to the fleet. Those traditions have been continued in the Royal Australian Navy. Patrol boats which are to serve in waters surrounding Papua and New Guinea will bear proud war-time names associated with that country. I appreciate fully the suggestion in the honourable member's question as to the contribution made to the Services by my predecessors in this portfolio. I am sure this will be one of the considerations before the Naval Board when it thinks of the proud future of the fleet. Thank you. 
I am happy to inform the House that construction of the causeway for the Cockburn Sound development is ahead of schedule. It is a very important development. 
It will add a very considerable amount to the security of Australia in the future. This is an admirable site for a support facility, for a naval dockyard, and for the future plans for Western Australia in this area. The question of ecology has been raised. I would (ike to assure the House that this aspect has been widely investigated and there have been indications that there will be no significant disturbance to the ecology because of the construction of the causeway. The report of the. Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works, which has been presented to this House, bears out this contention. I am happy to state that more recent reports that have come to light with regard to the fauna in the Garden Island area show that whereas some forms of fauna were thought to be unique to the area, other colonies have now been discovered in other areas of Western Australia. These will not be disturbed by construction of the causeway, which will be very much to this nation's advantage. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The report, which is a reference document for planning purposes, is confidential to the Government and will not be made public. 
The outstanding impression that one has of the visit of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  to China and the astonishing verbatim record of his discussions with Chou En-lai on 5th July is that of a pilgrimage. We have the depiction of the devotee who waits eagerly for some accolade of approval from his master, and in that rarefied atmosphere everything else is forgotten- all history, all experience, all loyalties, all criticism. The dialogue unfolds to the bitter end when we hear the endorsement: 'Go and win. We look forward to when you can take office and you can put into effect your promises. We believe you will shortly be able to rise up again.' Chou En-lai has spoken. With the deepest of kowtows the Leader of the Opposition withdraws. But the record remains. It stands as a document evidencing the most unutterable diplomatic indiscretions and just plain ignorance that one can possibly see in an aspirant for Prime Ministership. Here is a man whose price is very low indeed. 
 But let us look at the dialogue in detail. The scene opens with a little skirmish of pleasantries about mutual Socialist friends and then Chou goes into action on Vietnam and a policy of a complete unilateral withdrawal by the allies is attributed to the Australian Labor Party. And there is no denial. Then Chou makes an enormous statement - a statement so offensive, so sweeping and so damning to this country that even the Leader of the Opposition should have risen in protest. Here are the exact words Chou says: 
We are in favour of the withdrawal of all United States forces, first of all from the Far East and then from all those places where they committed aggression. 
Let every Australian listen to the list that Chou gives of the areas of American aggression. First, South Korea, where in 1950 the United Nations Security Council declared there was clear aggression by the North against the South. South Korea is  a  case of American aggression. If that makes honourable members sit up, then the next should make them stand up in anger, because the next on the list is Japan. One of the places against which the United States, according to Chou, has committed aggression is Japan. Remember the United States aggression at Pearl Harbour, in Malaya and Singapore, and in the Philippines; the aggression in the Coral Sea and finally in Japan itself. Chou lays it down, and the Leader of the Opposition sycophants on. This man sits on when he has just heard, in one unambiguous sentence - and I will not quote it all - the epitome of what Chou, Mao and Lin Piao and other Chinese Communists have been spelling out at length for decades, namely, that they, China, not the United States, Japan or anyone else, are going to dominate the East, including Korea, Taiwan, IndoChina, Thailand and the Philippines. 
The strategy will be the same in the future as it has been in the past. The friendly Chinese forces will move in to assist their Communist comrades in those countries to expel the United States aggressors or, if they are not in evidence, their running dogs and imperialist lackeys - that is, all the non-Communists. This sentence is possibly one of the most important sentences for the future of South East Asia ever spoken to a member of this House in a quarter of a century. And what does the Leader of the Opposition do? Is there any protest or even an angry and bewildered silence? Not a bit of it. He is in there with the great man. eagerly aiding and abetting the programme for aggression and justifying it to the aggressor. To make his own role completely clear the Leader of the Opposition takes a full fisted smack at the 2 countries which are listed by Chou as next on the roll for liberation. And while they sit there laughing together over the proposed rejection of the SEATO treaty, the Leader of the Opposition declares: 
It is moribund. I do not think anybody places much reliance on the treaty, where Britain has so clearly determined never to undertake any military operations again. 
Well, he is not quite up to date with his history. However, he goes on: 
Of the other members, the Philippines and Thailand are trying desperately to insinuate themselves into your Government's good graces. 
What great diplomacy! Could this man ever again enjoy the confidence of the Philippines or of Thailand? He has gone overboard. 
The next country that China mentions which is to be liberated from United States aggression after Korea and Japan is Taiwan. Well, the Leader of the Opposition goes all the way with that. He will, of course, at once break off diplomatic relations with Taiwan, when he is king. The United States aggressors will be rolled back. But does he know or does he care anything for the history of this matter? Does he recall the way the Taiwan issue came into being: How Britain, Labour Britain, trying desperately to establish normal relations with China, opted 21 years ago to support Peking in the matter and how the British Labour Party and its Ministers were insulted and rejected by the Chinese Communists? Does he recall, for instance, President Truman's announcement on 5th January 1950 when, among other things, he said: 
The United States Government will not pursue a course which will lead to involvement in the civil conflict in China. Similarly the United Slates Government will not provide military aid lo Chinese forces on Formosa. 
That identical assertion was repeated at the same time by Secretary of State, Dean Acheson. Both men expounded the view that they regarded Formosa as an integral part of China. That was in January 1950, but in June North Korea invaded the South and right from the beginning Peking declared its support for the aggressors, ls it any wonder that the United States acted quickly both in terms of Security Council action and in terms of its own defence? The United States was recoiling from the beginnings of what had happened at Pearl Harbour. It had already delineated its perimeter of defence so that never again would it be in such a situation of treachery. Now that perimeter was open again to attack from one of the 2 Communist powers which at that time were working in close collaboration. So the United Sta'.es moved to assert aid to other nonCommunist governments around the perimeter of Asia should they be attacked, and those governments included Formosa and IndoChina. 
The aggression in Korea had fateful consequences. It led directly to the tragedy of Vietnam and it gave substance to the 2- China position. Just as there were 2 Koreas, soon there would be 2 Vietnams and 2 Chinas. To show how fully he is now in accord with Chinese Communist thinking, the Leader of the Opposition takes up the dialogue. First the kowtow; then: 
We have been impressed, particularly at the meeting yesterday with the Acting Foreign Minister, that you have resolutely followed the policy of having no troops outside your own country. 
Let us pause there. Can he be serious? Has he never heard of the Chinese road through Laos to Thailand, for example, guarded when I was there last year by 5,000 front-line Chinese troops with surfacetoair missiles? What of Tibet? What of the Indian border? What of the Chinese volunteers in North Korea and Chinese support for the terrorist movement in Malaya? There was not a whisper of all this. Can it be that the Leader of the Opposition has already ceded Laos to China? He orates: 
You have resolutely followed the  policy  of having no troops outside your own country. 
Then comes his incredible comment: 
May I add that we were very impressed today, following our request to your Acting Foreign Minister that we be given a copy of Chairman Mao's eight principles for extending assistance to other countries. In particular, we were impressed by the principle that you do not seek to dominate any country to which you extend aid. . . . 
No wonder the Communist accolade of acceptance now touches his bowed head. The Leader of the Opposition said: 
You have a very correct understanding of our principles.  1 wonder whether Ted Hill, in his wildest dreams, ever expected to receive such praise. What fools the rest of the world really are! Fancy the peoples of the United Arab Republic not understanding that the Maoist guerillas, trying to oust their governments by the use of murder and terror, are just good Chinese social workers! Fancy the African leaders, who have seen the fruits of the huge Chinese embassies in their countries in blood, rape and fratricide, not understanding that this was just rendering assistance. What a pity that the Tibetans did not see the real values of the incursion which wiped out a thousand years of independence and cultural and religious autonomy. What a fool Lee Kwan Yew was when he spoke about his fear of going through the Communist mincing machine. Perhaps the Chinese soldiers inside Laos were only playing and that Souvanna Phouma did not really understand his people's true interests. Hookline and sinker, and the fish does not even know he is being played. 

 Chairman Mao has spoken, and the Leader of the Opposition is 'deeply impressed'. Later he bought a little 'Red Book' to read for himself and to study for the next peace conference - such philosophies as 'War is the continuation of politics ... by other means'; 'the seizure of power by armed force, the settlement of the issue by war, is the central task and the highest form of revolution'. But to listen to the Leader of the Opposition one would think that China had been on a peace crusade for 20 years, and had been unjustly treated by the rest of the world. He left China trumpeting about Chinese honesty and reliability which he declared to be a watchword. Let me quote from a voice which the Leader of the Opposition must have forgotten, a man with one of the most distinguished and knowledgeable backgrounds on China of the wartime and immediate postwar period, a man who went with  Mr Attlee  as interpreter when the British Labour Party sent a mission to China in 1954. I refer to Michael Lindsay. He was one of the Australian academics who strove hard in the early 1950's to establish peaceful and sensible relations with Peking. He himself supported the Communist cause and policy up to 1950. He said among other things: 
One finds in Chinese publicity continual examples of statements designed to create hatred of America which are simply untrue. Such deliberate attempts to work up international hatred by false or exaggerated statements are fundamentally different from honest criticism and are quite incompatible with a desire for international goodwill. 
As for Chinese-British Labour Government relations, surely the Leader of the Opposition remembers the calculated insults which the Chinese gave to Ministers and Parliament alike when they visited England in 1950. The left wing Labour magazine, the 'Tribune', summed up their behaviour as 'the worst mannered delegation ever to visit this country'. Has the Leader of the Opposition forgotten all this? It makes nonsense and humbug of his obsequious protestations to Chou En-lai. He speaks of United States aggression and says nothing of Chinese aggression. He even stated to the Chinese: 
You have resolutely followed the policy of having no troops outside your own country. 
That is the statement of the Leader of the Australian Parliamentary Labor Party. But sitting on the same front bench is another senior and respected member of the Australian Labor Party Executive, the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley).  Let me quote to the House his exact words: 
To praise Chinese genocide in Tibet as the elimination of feudalism, to attend peace congresses in China, to see wall pictures advocating hate of the outside world, and to come home and hold up China as the paragon of peace, as some members of the Party have done, extends this form of blindness a degree further. It looks like rationalised cowardice. Fortunately less has been heard since China's attack on India . . . 
I want to conclude with another assertion by  Mr Beazley  - and let his Leader neglect this warning at his peril; let Australia neglect it at its peril.  Mr Beazley  said: 
Communism in Australia works for the withdrawal of the US military presence in South East 
Asia, so that Communism abroad can occupy  the  vacuum. The Labor Party frankly does not attempt to answer this strategy. 
That was nearly 5 years ago. From all that the Leader did in his visit to China and from all that he has said since, the Labor Party frankly still does not attempt to answer that strategy. Rather than answer it, the Labor Party increasingly adopts it. Members of the Labor Party have become supine pawns before the East Wind in a demonic game of Mah Jong, and the stakes are the freedom of this nation and of South East Asia. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: Two. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (l) 
I present the following  petition: 
Tothe Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned showeth: 
That the Australian people both in metropolitan and rural areas should have the best of television programmes available to them and that television as a powerful means of communication should not be in the control of too few hands. 
The increased quota for Australian dramatic productions should not be imposed by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board at the expense of Australian professional variety or Australian documentary or educational programmes, but directed more towards cutting down expenditure on the purchase of imported productions, thus effecting a considerable saving in Australia's overseas balance of payments. 
The Australian Parliament has a responsibility to encourage the development of our national identity, character and heritage and the promulgation, for the sake of our children, of an adequate picture of Australia, her standards, mores and way of life, particularly through the media of radio and television, which is in the immediate control of the Australian Government. 
Until constructive and positive action is taken by the Australian Government to promote Australian culture and protect the employment and professional standards of Australian writers, artists and producers in Australia itself there is little likelihood of stopping theflow of Australian talent from Australia to other countries. 5 The Australian Broadcasting Control Board must insist that its new quota standards of Australian dramatic content on television are rigidly imposed and enforced on all commercial television stations. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled, should - 
Cause the Australian Government to recognise the right of Australian professional people engaged in the creative and performing arts to further develop their skills and talents in Australia, and to be protected from overseas programmes in a way that will encourage an Australian television and radio industry that can reflect and contribute to our identity and growth as a Nation. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
 I would first like to say a word of thanks to the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  for informing me that he intended to raise this matter tonight and for the way in which he has discussed what is to me a very serious problem. There are 2 ways of discussing this matter. I would like very briefly to deal with both of them. The first way is with regard to the current situation. The 2 boys mentioned both entered the Navy under different schemes. One of them entered HMAS 'Leeuwin' as a junior recruit at the age of 154 years. From the dates mentioned by the honourable member I think that the second lad who joined at 18 years of age also joined before it was decided that there should be an optional discharge for young men if they had been in the Navy for sufficient time to enable them to assess whether they considered they would like to make the Navy their career. 
Now a junior recruit on entering service at HMAS 'Leeuwin' is asked after about 5 or 6 months whether he would like to have a completely free optional discharge. If he desires this and if his parents concur in the decision he is given an immediate discharge. Similarly an adult enlisting in the Service at the age of 18 can avail himself of an option to obtain a free discharge after some 5 weeks of service. This provision also applies to members of the Women's Royal Australian Naval Service and others such as technical recruits who enter HMAS Nirimba'. They can likewise after 7 months decide whether they want to remain in the Service. This is an attempt on the part of the Navy to come to grips with what is - and I frankly admit this - a very grievous problem. One of the most difficult things which I personally have had to face is saying no in cases of the kind referred to by the honourable member for Burke. 1 would like to point out that there are some other aspects to this matter. It is true at the present time that a large number of these young men do see as they become older greater opportunities outside for what they consider to be personal advancement than they would have if they remained in the Service. In a condition of full employment this is understandable but at the same time I am aware of the fact that under different economic conditions it is quite conceivable that young men would be grateful to have guaranteed security for a considerable period. Nevertheless the fact remains that there are young men in the Service who are unhappy and do not feel that they can settle down. Some of them have threatened and in fact carried out the kind of misdemeanours that have been suggested by the honourable member for Burke in order to try to force the Navy into granting them a discharge. To me this is a most distasteful situation. That is one side of the picture. 
The other side is, I think, brighter because there is currently before the naval authorities, and will shortly come before the Naval Board, one of the most enlightened and exciting documents that 1 have read in terms of an analysis of the personnel situation in the Navy. It has a with it' title, 'SAILSTRUC '70'. This document is an examination of the whole structure of the sailor system in the Navy and it has been carried out by an expert committee under Commodore Smyth who is at present Captain of HMAS 'Cerberus' at the Flinders naval depot. One of the suggestions in that document is very similar to that put forward by the honourable member for Burke, namely, that after a man joins the Service and has been trained for a particular calling or category he should be required to serve for a period equal to that for which he was trained plus one year and that he should be able to obtain a discharge after that period upon giving a year's notice. I believe that this is something that we must examine extremely carefully. As far as I have been able to examine it, it has my active support. I am hopeful that we will be able to look at this suggestion in the very near future because there are many reasons, other than the ones that have been raised tonight, as to why it is undesirable to keep people on in the Service when they are thoroughly disgruntled. 
I am looking forward to seeing the document 'SAILSTRUC '70' brought before the Naval Board. I trust that there will be an attempt made to come to grips with what has been rightly indicated by the honourable member to be one more symptom of the recurring restlessness of our times on the part of young people. It is no longer easy to assume that young men of 154 and 164 can make up their minds to commit themselves for 12 years' service and, even though we are pressing that people are adults at 18 years, nevertheless they can at that age sign on for 9 years. I agree that these periods are too long and I hope that there will be a change. I again thank the honourable member for Burke for raising this matter in the way that he has. 
-The Kerr Committee at the present time is examining the whole question of sailors' and officers' pay. It is true that an additional payment is made to submarine personnel in the Navy because of the hard lying conditions and that this payment may be extended to personnel on other vessels. This is one of the terms of reference of that Committee. We expect to have a submission from it which will materially affect all the wages and conditions of men in the Service. I expect that I will be able to make some further announcement on this matter in the next few months. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of electors of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth - 
that the United Nations General Assembly 
Resolution 2603 XXIV A (December 1969) declares that the Geneva Protocol of 1925, which Australia has ratified, prohibits the use in international armed conflict of any chemical agents of warfare - chemical substances whether gaseous, liquid or solid - employed for their direct toxic effects on man, animals or plants; 
that the World Health Organisation Report (January 1970) confirms the above definition of chemical agents of warfare; 
that the Australian Government does not accept this definition, but holds that the Geneva Protocol does not prevent the use in war of certain toxic chemical substances in the form of herbicides, defoliants and 'riotcontrol' agents. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray - 
that the Parliament take note of the consensus of international political, scientific and humanitarian opinion; and 
that honourable members urge upon the Government the desirability of revising its interpretation of the Geneva Protocol, and declaring that it regards all chemical substances employed for their toxic effects on man, animals or plants as being included in the prohibitions laid down by that Protocol. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and the Members of the House ot Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth: 
The red kangaroo and many other marsupials, through the shooting for commercial purposes, have been reduced to  a  numerical level where their survival is in jeopardy. 
None of the Australian states have sufficient wardens to detect and apprehend people breaking laws in existence. Uniform laws and complete cessation of commercialisation can ensure the survival of our national emblem. 
It is an indisputable fact that no natural resources can withstand hunting on such  a  concentrated scale, unless some provision is made for its future. 
We, your petitioners, therefore humbly pray: 
The management of Australia's Wildlife be controlled by the Commonwealth Government and sufficient wardens appointed to enforce the laws. 
The shooting of kangaroos for commercial purposes be stopped immediately. 
The export of all kangaroo products from Australia be banned. 
The Commonwealth Government establish large national parks of good quality land as major tourist attractions. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
1 am aware that there has been discontent at certain levels in Williamstown dockyard for some time. 1 have visited Williamstown on several occasions and have talked with the shop committee and other representatives of the men. I am surprised that the implementation of the Kerr report should have occasioned the kind of discontent that the honourable member has mentioned. We are taking steps in the Navy to see that al) sailors and employees are informed of the implications of this report. A team is currently visiting each of the ships and establishments to inform personnel at both the officer and the sailor level of the changes that have been made. 
With regard to the dockyard police, I do not think that the figure that the honourable member has quoted is correct. I have been following this matter carefully. I think the figure is approximately half the number that he has mentioned. I am disappointed also that even that number has been involved, because I think there is a mistaken concept, of the implications of the Kerr Committee report. It is true that  ws  have narrowed down through this process of the Kerr Committee report the large number of levels that applied in group pay. For instance, the dockyard police whom the honourable member mentioned were on group 10 now are on a commensurate level at group 3 under the new system. That represents by no means a downgrading, nor does it mean a diminution of pay. Indeed, for most, almost all, personnel in the Navy it means an increase in their pay structure. Moreover the dockyard police are certainly not an auxiliary unit as the honourable member put it. They are part of the permanent force of the Navy. With regard to the supply of their own meals, the Navy Board some 2 or 3 meetings ago decided that this will be one of the perquisites that attach to their office. It may not yet have been promulgated, but it certainly will be and that matter will be taken care of. 
The naval police fulfil a very important function in the Service. I am more concerned about other actions in the Williamstown dockyard which recently gave rise to the possibility of rolling strikes. These would be perhaps more related to the activities of certain more militant unions in Victoria - some 26 unions - that have been concerned about the metal workers aspect of the situation. They have been promoting the powers of the shop steward inside the organisation. This has given rise to some discontent. 
I conclude by saying that in the naval dockyards we are looking forward to a long period reaching many years into the future during which we will be engaged in our own construction, and increasing the amount of the Australian content of the hardware of the fighting services. This can only take place if we have the application and good will of the work force. Given a fair days work for a fair days pay, I believe there will be increased security of employments and increased opportunity for the development of such dockyards as the one at Williamstown of which we are proud. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Records show that 6 sailors including Ordinary Seaman Clough left ships at sea during the last 5 years. 
There is no record of any of the 6 sailors mentioned having previously applied for discharge from the Navy. 
The answer to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
There is no RAN ship named Adelaide currently in commission. Capital City names are given to major fighting units of the RAN and when the 3 DDG's were being purchased all such names (with the exception of Sydney and Melbourne the Aircraft Carriers) were considered with preference then being given to Perth, Hobart and Brisbane in that order. When opportunity arises the name Adelaide will be given to a ship in the appropriate class. 
One. 
HMAS Adelaide was in commission for  12  years 6 months 19 days. 
(4) 
Brisbane I - 10 years 4 months 12 days 
Brisbane II (In commission)- 3 years 8  months 9 days (to 24 August 1971) 
Hobart I (ex HMS Apollo) (RAN service only) - 9 years 2 months 23 days 
Hobart II (In commission) - 5 years 8 months 7 days (to 24 August 1971) 
MelbourneI - 13 years 5 months 21 days 
Melbourne 11 (In commission) - 15 years 9  months 28 days (to 24th August 1971) 
Perth I (ex HMS Amphion) (RAN Service only) - 2 years 8 months 1 day (sunk 1st March 1942) 
Perth II (In commission) - 6 years 1 month 8 days (to 24th August 1971) 
Sydney I - 13 years 4 months/ 29 days 
Sydney II - 6 years 1 month 27 days (sunk  19th November 1941) 
Sydney HI (In commission) - 18 years  11  onths 3 days (to 24th August 1971) 

 (5) 

 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The accommodation of the crews of ships refitting in dockyards such as Williamstown is a difficulty. The Royal Australian Navy has been trying for some time to establish an accommodation block in the Williamstown area. Plans were proceeding well but the local council has seen fit to challenge these and has withdrawn its agreement, and at the moment fresh negotiations are under way. The accommodation block will be the ideal solution. 
Meanwhile there are arrangements made whereby single sailors who are required to live ashore under these conditions have restored to them a living allowance. This used to be simply the restoration of, I think, the $1.30 a day that was deducted from their pay while they were fully provided for on the ship. This has now been increased because a survey was made by 
Treasury and Navy officials into the cost of accommodation in that area. I think something like $21 a week is paid to a single seaman who is required to live ashore under these conditions. 
It is recognised that a married man will have a home elsewhere. If he has to set up a second home, not only is a daily allowance given to him, but if he can demonstrate that accommodation actually costs him more than that allowance he is also reimbursed to the full extent. So he is getting his married quarters at a rate which is 15 per cent of his salary - it cannot be greater than 15 per cent of his salary. I believe that this rate is more than comparable with normal charges for rent in the community in these days. I think therefore a married sailor is well catered for in his married quarters and his full expenses for setting up a second home are reimbursed under circumstances such as those referred to by the honourable member. Therefore I do not believe that there is any real problem. 
The other day in reply to the honourable member for Gellibrand, I indicated that at present there were problems with regard to the naval dockyard police and their rate of pay. I think that part of this situation is due to a misunderstanding. As honourable members know, the Kerr Committee has been appointed to inquire into the scale of pay for the whole of the Services. The naval dockyard police are fulfilling a very important role in the naval Service. At the constable level, they are equated roughly with a petty officer in the serving forces in the fleet. When they were first aligned under group pay their rate of pay, if I remember correctly, was at about the level of group 7. This rate was in line with the lowest level of pay for a constable in the Commonwealth Police Force. 
Subsequently a pay case was heard and as a result Commonwealth Police were granted an increase. Consequent upon this increase, naval dockyard police were raised to group 10, a level which corresponds with the third band in the recommendations of the Kerr Committee, as I said the other day. However, at the time the Kerr Committee was appointed a case was being prepared for a re-examination of the rate of pay for a constable in the dockyard police because of the very factors mentioned by the honourable member such as the fact that they must serve some 8 years with the fleet before they can be appointed as dockyard police and are required to have a large number of skills. It was expected that there would be a realignment as a result of this case but it was never actually presented because of the appointment of the Kerr Committee. 
Since that time the rate for constables in the Commonwealth Police has been increased. It is anticipated that, as a result of the recommendations, the Kerr Committee will carry out a job evaluation - it is at present addressing itself to this matter - and will take these factors into account. It is therefore expected that the review requested by the honourable member, and which is actually proceeding at this time, will result, and I hope speedily, in a readjustment of the base rate of pay for naval dockyard constables who, because of the smaller numbers involved, certainly do not have the same opportunities for advancement or promotion as do Fleet personnel. Nevertheless there is an annual increase in their rates of pay and I remind the House, as I did the other day, that they have received an increase in pay due to the new alignments which have been brought about by the Kerr Committee. I might mention that something which applies to them but which does not apply to the Commonwealth Police is the flow-on from the physical and allied trades readjustment which has taken place in the Commonwealth Public Service. 
1 have had questions addressed to me from members on both sides of the House and also letters sent to me. Surely this is an important matter. 
For some time, representations have been made by the honourable member for Macarthur and other members interested in the area with regard to the naval bombardment range at Beecroft Head, which is shared for certain purposes with the Royal Australian Air Force. About IS years ago, an unfortunate incident occurred when some shells from a New Zealand cruiser went somewhat astray. This gave cause for alarm to the people in the township of Currarong. Since that time, no practice rounds have been fired that have fallen outside the boundary of the range. I am not sure of the ballistics - 45 degrees and the rest of it - that the honourable gentleman mentioned. But my experts assure me that no actual danger has resulted from these firings. 
I am happy to be able to tell the honourable member that steps have been taken which mean that the nuisance caused by the noise factor has been contained. It will not continue in the way in which it has in the past. No further bombing will be carried out on the unique rock features on the coast. The hours of bombardment will be restricted so that bombardment will not occur in the sleeping hours of inhabitants. Indeed, some of the types of shells used have been looked at so that there will not be as many explosions as in the past. So the present happy conditions, on which we have received letters from Currarong congratulating us on the change, will continue. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and the Members of the House of Representatives of the Commonwealth of Australia. The petition of the undersigned citizens of the electorate of Evan1;, Lowe and adjoining electorates respectfully sheweth: That whereas - 
The pupils of Ashfield Boys' High School are suffering under the disadvantage of overcrowded playground accommodation. 
That the facilities in Ashfield Boys' High School in regard to its playground, size and area per boy are inferior in size quality and attractiveness compared with other schools in the metropolitan area. 
The playground is so dangerously small that often games have to be stopped in the interest of safety. 
That the only possibility of expansion exists in the taking over of the area at present owned by the Commonwealth Government and occupied by the Citizen Military Forces (C.M.F.). 
We your petitioners request that the Commonwealth Government relinquish ownership of this land to the State of New South Wales for the expansion of Ashfield Boys' High School. And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
As will have been seen in the Press it has been announced that the preliminary design for our new light destroyer has been completed. I now have this design on my desk and the naval officers concerned are studying it. The destroyer will be an advanced and sophisticated ship. It will incorporate many improved and secret devices. However at times the situation in our dockyards where we are hoping the destroyer will be built - this is a decision yet to be made by the Government - is far from desirable in terms of security. I shall mention 2 matters in particular which stand out. Firstly, there is great resistance on the part of some trade unions to the most elementary form of identification cards for the identification of employees. I would think that this was an acceptable means of reasonable security in any establishment of this kind. Secondly some unions demand the right to put whom they will into a position of employment in our dockyards without the management of the dockyard having any right of scrutiny or say who is to be employed in the dockyard. To my mind this again is an unacceptable security risk. Tn relation to this matter negotiations will have to proceed with the unions concerned before we can risk the kind of operation which is involved in the construction of the light destroyers. 
I cannot vouch for the figure originally posed as the cost of this vessel. The vessel was conceived earlier as a much lighter ship - hence the title DDL, the 'L' standing for light - than it is intended it now should be. However, a scrutiny of the changing conditions - and they are changing rapidly in terms of Naval hardware and sophistication in major navies in the world- has led defence experts in Australia to revise the original plans and they have been updated. I have only just come from a briefing and presentation of the design by the designers. This revision has led to a ship which I believe will be foremost in the world in her class in dealing with modern threats. This change, of course, has not been carried out without an increase in costs. The ship has now increased to a size which is almost identical to that of the DDGs, the guided missile destroyers that we purchased from the United States of America at a cost then of slightly over $40m. We have to face the fact that these and greater costs are inescapable if we are to have ships of this size and sophistication. 
At present we have completed the preliminary design and this has been presented. Provisions have been made in the Budget for the first stage of calling tenders and having a look at the costof detailed working drawings. This will be another large expenditure and only after this stage is reached will the Government be able to make a decision on the important matters that have been raised in the part of the honourable member's question regarding manufacture and eventual budgeting, the number and all of those other vitally important questions. But that is the current stage which this project has reached. 
1 wish to make a personal explanation. 
I am sure that members of the House are interested to know the comparative strengths of the great nations of the world and their sea power. The last edition of 'Janes Fighting Ships', which is perhaps the most authoritative summary of this situation, has recently arrived in Australia. The foreword to that edition points out things which I feel every honourable member should be concerned to hear. It can be summarised in this way: At the present moment the editors of 'Janes' and their advisers consider that, in every department other than aircraft carriers, the United States is steadily - indeed, to quote the Chief of Naval Operations of the United States, alarmingly - falling behind the strength of the Union of Soviet Socialits Republics. 
The USSR has 3 times as many submarines as does the United States. The USSR is building nuclear submarines at the rate of one a month. I would remind honourable members that the cost of one nuclear submarine at the present moment, even if Australia could obtain one, is far beyond our wildest consideration. Moreover, in terms of other matters, the Soviet Union has been equipping its ships with surface to surface missiles. More than 270 of its ships are now so equipped. The United States has no ships equipped with the antisurfacevessel missile. 
As I said the other day, we in Australia, in designing our new destroyer, are currently thinking in terms of a capacity to deal with this kind of threat and to operate in this environment. But it is indeed something that we all should ponder as we consider the reason behind this enormous growth. 'Janes' says: By any standards the Soviet Navy is now the super navy of a super power. To administer what it considers to be its world charter the USSR has for some time had a task force in the Indian Ocean and more recently in the environment of the Philippines there have been activities of another Russian task force. These areas, I would remind honourable members, are relatively close to our own shores and of significance to us in terms of naval defence. 
I think it is necessary to get in proportion the picture that I presented recently. We have in our Dockyard a great preponderance of men who are loyal and extremely capable. I have delighted recently in going to presentations of awards to apprentices who I believe, have given evidence that their capabilities are equal to those of any other young men of this group in the world. The workmanship of our Dockyard is something of which we are proud. Hence the suggestion of a clean sweep is, I think, a little extravagant. 
However, security relating to new naval construction is a matter of concern, as I said recently, because ali reports indicate that there are in the Dockyard a number of men whose allegiance would be to the Communist Party as well as to this country. I have assumed that they would claim that it was in both quarters. When we see events such as Australia being embarrassed by having to bring Centurion tanks back to Australia by means of the shipping of another nation because our own waterside workers refuse to unload tanks not going to Vietnam but coming back to add materially to the defence capacity of this country, I believe there is added reason for concern at the presence in our work force of men who openly claim to be and are leaders of the Communist movement. 
It is this to which I have referred and which is a continuing problem, but the people of this country have seen fit to indicate that they believe the Communist Party should be regarded as a legitimate political entity or rather that it should not be outlawed. There is therefore no legal process whereby one can discriminate and thereby dispense with the services of a person simply because he is a member of the Communist Party. If this is not so, then there are certainly industrial reasons why it should have to be demonstrated that the work performance of these men was not acceptable. Of course, 1 am not referring to work of  a  classified nature. 
Certainly in that case we are able to exercise discretion, but a lot more things can happen in terms of detrimentally affecting the Navy's performance and the work of the Dockyard than things which have direct relationship to classified and secret equipment. la the ordinary work of the Dockyard there can be the frustration of continual industrial unrest adding materially to' our costs and setting back our schedules. This is a problem that must be looked at over a wide perspective and I believe it is one of the major problems that confront this country in terms of its naval defence construction programme. 
The causeway project is up to date; indeed, it is ahead of schedule. It is planned that the project will be completed by mid 1973. This will mean that Garden Island will be linked to the. mainland in such a way that the rest of the project, which it is envisaged will accommodate several submarines and destroyer escorts, will certainly be able to be completed on time. Of course, this is related to the fact that there exist overall necessities for the operations ' of our fleet and the  men and equipment which will be provided for the base. The whole progress of this operation is taking place, I believe, completely satisfactorily and 1975 should see the base fit for operation in the first phase of its development. The naval base is a project that will grow and continue to expand in importance and significance as the nation expands. I take this opportunity to point out that the construction of a major naval base is not just a matter of providing a support facility such as the one we are engaged upon in Cockburn Sound but, as with Garden Island, we must rely upon a great industrial infrastructure which is essential to the whole work of equipping the fleet. This infrastructure, is presently situated at our major dockyards in the 2 largest Australian cities. As Perth and Fremantle grow and as the engineering facilities and other capabilities of the State expand, so I confidently expect the naval capabilities of Cockburn Sound to expand. 
I think this question more properly would be addressed to the Acting Minister for Shipping and Transport. 
The honourable member for Swan  (Mr Bennett)  quoted a number of letters and drew attention to a great deal of speculation with regard to Australian troops returning from Vietnam. The Minister for the Army  (Mr Peacock)  was unable to be present tonight, but the honourable member gave him prior intimation of his intention to raise this matter, and the Minister has provided mc with some information which I now convey to the House. The honourable member for Swan said, and the letters which he has quoted suggested that there was a difference in the treatment given to officers and to ordinary servicemen who were denied access to air transport. The suggestion was that the Government was being very pinch- penny in its attitude in not providing means of transport in order to honour the promise that these servicemen would be able to be with their families at Christmas. But this is hardly in keeping with the facts. 
The Minister for the Army has assured me and, through me, assures the House that all our planning is directed towards ensuring that every member of the Australian forces in Vietnam who is due to come out with the main withdrawal will be able to be with his family by Christmas. That means only one thing, that men coming out of Vietnam with that withdrawal will not be travelling by train on Christmas Day; they will be with their families, if this can possibly be arranged. Honourable members will appreciate that our troops will not be coming home only in HMAS 'Sydney'. It is true that aircraft are used in this defence manoeuvre for bringing these men out. There is a chartered Boeing 707 flight once a week, and twice a week CI 30 aircraft belonging to the Royal Australian Air Force are used for this ferrying service. So there is a good deal of flexibility. 
These men will be flown out to Australia from Vietnam by the means which I have just described, and the Army has undertaken that all these men who are coming out by these means will be able to be with their families by Christmas - unforeseen circumstances excepting. Of course, this means that naturally the Army will be looking at methods of transportation which will enable this aim to be achieved. The Minister for the Army says that at this stage he can only repeat that there is no reason for him to believe that that aim will not be achieved. So I think that the speculation is unnecessary. In addition to ships, planes are being used. There is every indication that the promise will be kept and that the men coming out in this main force withdrawal will be with their families by Christmas. 
The other point, to which the Minister has not referred, relates to the small number of men who will be required to remain behind. If my memory is correct, this has been described as a necessary factor to safeguard the remaining equipment and other logistic support material that will be left behind in the area prior to its shipment to Australia. I do not think that purpose would be achieved if, as was suggested tonight, the men were flown home for Christmas and then, as I understand the suggestion, flown back again to carry on guarding this material until finally it is shipped to Australia. I think this is one of the things that naturally are unfortunate. We would have liked to have had all the men home. There is an indication, from what has been said in previous answers to questions in the House by the Minister for the Army, that there will be a small remaining force. But those men, of course, will be withdrawn as soon as it is physically possible to withdraw them. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The new destroyers and other new naval vessels will cause considerably less pollution both to the atmosphere and to the ocean than existing ships. 
lt is not possible to promise complete elimination but there will bc significant improvement as follows: 
Gas turbines have the inherent advantage that they can be started from cold and placed on load almost immediately, with very little smoke emission. Such ships therefore do not emit the heavy clouds of smoke for an extended period as do present steam ships when raising steam in harbour. Also the gas turbines fitted in ships arc not as highly loaded as those in aircraft, where boost power, accompanied by smoke emission, is necessary on take off. 
Silencers are fitted to gas turbines and internal combustion engine exhausts. This is a military requirement. 
Sewage. AH new ships are planned to be fitted with on board sewage collection and treatment plants. Such plants are incorporated in the new destroyer design. 
Garbage and waste. Garbage disposal units are fitted in all food handling areas in modern naval vessels. 
Other waste is handled according to its pollution potential. Naval ships are subject to the same regulations against discharge of oil at sea or in harbour as commercial shipping. The Naval Board ensures that these regulations are strictly observed by the issue of appropriate directives to Commanding Officers, by the incorporation of appropriate safeguards during design and the use of up to date equipment, and by the provision of reception facilities for oily residue in major naval ports. 
Undoubtedly, there is world concern at the Russian presence in the Indian Ocean. This is evidenced perhaps by what 'Jane's Fighting Ships' said in its foreword, namely, that 5 years ago there were no Russian warships in this ocean but today there are more than a score of surface warships and an unknown number of submarines. It would not, I think, be proper to disclose the information that we have on actual types of ships. It has been announced only today that the United Kingdom has stepped up its construction programme to deal with this growing threat. We in Australia do not have immediate plans for nuclear propelled vessels, but installations . such as the Cockburn Sound facility will eventually be able to service nuclear powered vessels. This reminds us that as a small nation we do rely very greatly on the ANZUS Treaty to provide the kind of deterrent against the aggression that the honourable member obviously fears. 
I would have thought that this might have been of some importance to the nation and to the honourable member. Finally, I would say this: We do from time to time have sophisticated warships from the United Kingdom and the United States visiting our shores. These are undoubtedly welcomed by the Navy because they remind us of the umbrella that ANZUS affords us in this whole field. 
In the interests of accuracy, the blanket statement that in the last 2 World Wars Russia was on our side is not the complete picture. Honourable members will recall that in the early stages of the Second World War this was not quite so. With regard to the question of a Russian presence and its potential threat, I would remind the House that the Indian Ocean is a very important trade route not only for ourselves but also for other neighbour nations in whose economic affairs we have considerable interest. 1 should have thought that the equipment of warships and especially the modern sophisticated warships capabilities are a fair enough demonstration that money and time are not spent in building them for anything other than the purpose of intruding into world politics and using the sanctions of force as an inducement for achieving the national aims of the country concerned. When we have around our shores and in our immediate vicinity a build-up of armed might, I believe that it is of concern and should be studied closely by every thinking Australian. 
It is not true that the Navy is dumping in Sydney Harbour anything of the nature that the honourable member has mentioned. Excavations to place the tactical trainer on South Head below the skyline in order to present as little interruption as possible to the vista of Sydney Harbour are being undertaken by the Department of Works and the contractor for the Department has decided on a method- 
Am I allowed to answer the question? The contractor has decided that the best method of getting rid of the spoil from this area is by taking it to the outer side of South Head - not into the Harbour at all - and to a deep water spot to be shot over the cliff in a way which will eventually cause no kind of hazard and in no way spoil the view of this part of the coast. The alternative was to trundle this material through the suburbs for a distance of some 26 miles, involving approximately 180 return trips a day which would cost up to $60,000 extra. This procedure would be a nuisance to the residents in that environment and it would cause dust and deterioration of the roadway. I can assure the honourable member that I have been to visit the site and there has been nothing of the kind that has been publicised in the Sydney evening Press relating to despoiling the waters of Sydney Harbour. There is some topsoil which is causing some discolouration outside Sydney Harbour, but it certainly would be nothing like the discolouration caused by the topsoil coming down the Parramatta River in a normal flood season. The topsoil causing this discolouration would cause nothing compared to the pollution caused by nightsoil around that area. This is the beginning of the operation, and when it is completed a bulldozer will be lowered over the cliff, to clean up the area. The spoil will be put into deep water and there will be no residual adverse effects. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Determinations have been made under section 42a of the Naval Defence Act 1910-1971 as follows: 
1968-16 
1969-31 
1970-37 
1971-37 (to date). 
Details of the effect of determinations have been made available to employees and associations of employees as appropriate, but there has been no regular distribution of copies of the determinations to employees and associations in the years specified. The determinations have been distributed to Departmental personnel authorities in each State Administration. These are available to give information to, and answers from, employees and associations of employees. The determinations in themselves are not suitable for wide distribution to employees as much of the drafting is by reference to other legislation and also they are not in a form which facilitates incorporation of amendments in any distributed copies. To date staff shortages have prevented the completion and issue of a loose-leaf set of conditions which would avoid these difficulties. 
A consolidated determination for salaried staff is in the final stages of drafting and when this has been made it will be put in a loose-leaf form suitable for reference by employees and issued to associations concerned. Similar action will be taken at a later date for determinations covering wages staff. 
Papua New Guinea: Use of Military Forces in Times of Domestic Violence (Question No.  3628) 
I did read an editorial in last night's 'Sun', which was at least vigorous and in places most misleading. It referred to the action information tactical trainer, which is to be placed on South Head, as a toy shed. There has been a great deal of confusion, as was evidenced by interjections from the Opposition this morning, as to whether this could be placed elsewhere in the locality around Sydney or whether it is. vital for it to be at South Head. I would like to take a minute to point out the precise purpose of this building. The situation today is that information coming into a modern warship comes through a tremendous number of different sensors and from different sources. As well as visual ones there are the sonar, radar and other sensors on the ship which convey information to the vessel about the environment. Some of this information, such as from a low trajectory missile, is of such a nature that action must be taken within split seconds if there is to be any effective defence. 
It is a highly complicated and growing art in the Navy to differentiate between an aggressive or enemy attack, friendly targets and friendly evidence that is presented. This situation means that today the Navy must have a high degree of training. It is necessary for evidence and information to be sifted and brought to the most effective kind of evaluation as quickly as possible. This building will enable the Navy to keep personnel in a high degree of training similar to that which an airline pilot and crew receive in the simulator for their own aircraft. It is something which will link many ships together. It is necessary for the building to be placed in a position where the crews of ships may be trained during their periods inharbour and immediately after leaving harbour for the calibration of their instruments. It will be possible to inject into this system simulation of targets so that there can be co-ordinated training. It could not be placed other than at a major harbour. It must be placed where it looks to seaward as well as into the harbour and it must afford the crews of ships the kind of training to enable them to reach this degree of split second efficiency which is essential for their survival. It is regarded by the Navy as an esential part of its equipment and must be placed in a location similar to this at South Head. That is why this project must go ahead. 
by leave - The House will recall my statement on 28th April when I announced that I had asked  His  Honour Judge Rapke, QC, of the Victorian County Court, to consider and report to me firstly, whether there is evidence of the existence of any forms of initiation or similar practices in HMAS 'Leeuwin' which involve organised physical violence, degrading or bullying behaviour, and secondly, whether there is evidence over recent years of any pattern of undue physical violence or bullying among junior recruits. Subsequently, on 30th April, I stated that in view of the increasing interest which had centred around the particular case of Junior Recruit Connolly, I had asked  His  Honour to examine this case first and without prejudice to his wider inquiry. On 6th May I issued a statement on the preliminary report presented by the judge on that case, and this was made available to all senators and members. 
I have recently received from the judge his report on the wider inquiry in accordance with the terms of reference given to him on 28th April. The Judge has stated that the material on which his report and findings are based may be summarised as follows: 
The testimony of 467 witnesses interviewed at HMAS 'Leeuwin', in Melbourne, Adelaide, Sydney and Brisbane, and on board HMAS 'Sydney', between 30th April and 3rd July 1971; 
Written memoranda handed to him by witnesses or communicated to him by various authorities, particularly in answer to requests by him for special assistance on specific matters; 
A detailed examination of the medical records of and from 'Leeuwin' relating to traumatic injuries treated in sick bay at that establishment and at hospitals ashore; 
Seminars and information discussion groups conducted at 'Leeuwin' and Nirimba' and on board 'Sydney'; 
Civilian, witnesses called mainly from those who responded to requests for anybody having any information on the subject of the enquiry to communicate with the judge, and also from persons who had been reported in the Press as the authors of information reported by the Press; 
Experts in criminology and social sciences specially approached by the Judge. 
As honourable members will recall, this inquiry was conducted in camera for the reason explained by me in a previous statement. I said: 
The preliminary inquiry will be strictly private - as though the judge were talking with people in chambers. It would defeat the whole concept if the public or Press were present and these persons felt that they were speaking on the record. 
As in the case of the first report dealing with the Connolly case, and for the same reasons, I do not consider that it would be desirable to make this report public. I shall, however, continue by practice of making a copy available in confidence to the 

 Deputy Leader of .the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  and the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley),  so that it may be known that nothing of importance is hidden which should be made public. 
Before proceeding to the conclusions and recommendations of the inquiry, I should like to recall ito the House the great spate of national publicity - invariably in highly critical and condemnatory terms - which was given in late April and early May to various specific allegations published at the time. The judge investigated all these reports and interviewed the persons stated to have been the authors of information reported by the Press. It is worth referring to his findings on some of these cases in particular. One was the case of Leading Junior Recruit J. R. Russell, which I referred to in a statement in Parliament on 27th April last. The judge examined this case in depth and, though for good reasons I shall not repeat the detail from his report, I quote his finding. He said: 
The Russell case is therefore unrelated to any organised violence. It is a case of a squabble over trifles getting out of hand and unexpectedly and unintentionally leading to disastrous results. Such an incident could arise at any place and at any time. The junior recruit who committed the main assault was punished. I saw him and he is a very sorry and a chastened lad who wrote his regrets to Russel who proudly showed me the note. Both boys are good types of recruits. 
Another allegation which received wide publicity in early May was that 'sadism is rife on HMAS 'Sydney'. The judge examined this accusation in great depth, and has reported as follows: 
The suggestion that the ship is in any way distracted by the juvenile activities occurring at Leeuwin' is a figment of the imagination. As far as I have been able to discover in what I regard as a very comprehensive research into the matter under discussion there is not a shred of evidence to support the suggested sadism, or whatever other expression emanates from a journalist's emotive mind, to describe the conduct referred to. I give the 'Sydney' a clean bill of health in the problem under survey. 
Though not strictly related to the Leeuwin' inquiry, the judge investigated a Press story on 28th April which reported that a former naval officer had claimed that a 'barstardisation' ceremony at the Royal Australian Naval College, Jervis Bay, had hampered the 'Voyager' rescue operation on 10th February 1964. The article reminded its readers that 822 men had died in this disaster, and the inference was obvious and powerful. His Honour has reported on this allegation as follows: 
I find as  a  fact that the headline ... of 28th April reading - 'Initiation Hampered Rescue Craft', and the subsequent report that  i  hour's delay was caused to the rescue operations is entirely baseless and incorrect. I am not prepared to find that the person responsible for the . . . report was the author of  a  fiction not given to him by his informant, or whether the informant in his communications with the Press left  a  reasonable reporter with the impression conveyed by the dastarly headline and story. All in all it is illustrative of the bias against the good name of the Navy that marred so much of the journalistic contributions to the matters under investigation by me. 
I come now to Judge Rapke's findings on the terms of reference of his inquiry. As I have stated, these were: 
Whether there is evidence of the existence of any forms of initiation or similar practices in HMAS 'Leeuwin' which involve organised physical violence, degrading or bullying behaviour. 
Whether there la evidence over recent years of any pattern of undue physical violence or bullying among Junior Recruits. 1 quote the relevant passages from the report: 
Organised initiation ceremonies, a format pattern of bastardisation, or any form of patterned violence or misbehaviour have never been  a  part of the programme, official or otherwise, at Leeuwin*. 
The strict answer to the 2 questions which are contained in my terms of reference should therefore be no. 
The inquiry revealed that in 1970, of all the cases of physical injury reported, and relating to more than 650 boys, 22 could be held to be caused by fighting or bullying. Again in 1971, nine such cases had been identified to date - of which three were minor, and in 2 cases the incidents were reported and the offenders punished. This tends to support the initial assessment I gave of the proportion of such occurrences. 
The report then goes on to discuss the damaging effects of 'unorganised and repetitive acts of bullying, violence, degradation and petty crime' when they occur. Although those incidents apply only to a small minority, nevertheless they the Judge says, are pernicious in their deep effect on the young sailor at an early and impressionable time in his naval career' and the 'physical and mental damage to the victims was and is deplorable'. The Judge felt that losses by discharge could be greater than normal because of bullying; also because these practices could provoke some junior recruits to commit offences in order to obtain discharge, the formal reason for discharge in some cases reflected unfairly on the junior recruit involved. The Judge declared 'the condemnation which you gave expression to is in my opinion well justified and the warnings of the action to be taken were necessary'.  His  Honour has devoted a considerable portion of his report to a discussion both of the problem, and of ways and means of improving the position. 1 do not propose to discuss in detail the many suggestions proffered by the Judge in his report. They cover a wide range of matters, directed to every phase of activity that has a bearing on the question.  His  proposals include: 
Increase in the complement and continuity of the training and divisional staffs at the establishment, and improvements in their selection and training. 
Increased supervision of junior recruits and greater participation by the staffs in junior recruit activities. 
More intensified organisation of the recreation time of junior recruits and the provision of considerably increased recreational facilities. 
Segregation of new intake* during their first two or three months. 
Changes in the training programme with a view to providing the less studious recruits with more physically demanding activities. 
Assignment of responsibilities to selected senior junior recruits for maintenance of good behaviour and order under a prefect type system. 
All these matters and others that have come to notice, will receive urgent study by the appropriate Navy directorates and authorities. Some of the proposed measures for effecting improvements will be brought into effect quickly. Others are of a more long term nature, and some, regrettably, will be dependent on the provision of additional resources, both financial and manpower, which may not be readily available. 
I have stated on previous occasions that physically violent, degrading or bullying behaviour will not be tolerated in the Navy, especially towards its junior members. I am determined that every possible effort will be made to stamp it out where it is found to occur, and to introduce effective measures to ensure its detection and eradication. I entirely concur in the following view expressed by Judge Rapke in the concluding remarks of his report: 
It will be noticeable that no-one has suggested that the remedies can ever include the total eradication of the appetite for self-assertion that many lads possess. A check of this view with experts whom I have consulted and whose writings I have read support this. But the alternative view was that bullying, like the poor, will always be with us. I prefer the view that a quality of selfassertiveness (unless it has developed to the stage where serious criminal behaviour results) can be re-orientated and directed into useful and even leadership value for the Navy. 
I was pleased to read in the report the Judge's commendatory remarks about the sponsor system which has been in operation at Leeuwin for some time. Under this scheme local families generously extend their hospitality and friendship to individual junior recruits from other States. This has been highly valued by the naval authorities and the boys. The Judge has stated: 
Its maintenance, extension, organisation and supervision should be encouraged. Much good can come from an early contact with suitable families in the Perth area and the meeting of junior recruit and sponsor should take place as soon as practicable after entry. Some evidence in this inquiry was commendatory of Leeuwin - when the media rejected the informants they turned to me and I was glad to hear them - and these witnesses included people who were sponsors as well as those who had cause to be grateful to their sponsors. 
Finally, I would be remiss if I did not pay a tribute to His Honour Judge Rapke for the thorough and painstaking investigation he has undertaken, and the thoughtful and helpful suggestions he has offered. I assure the House that these will all be fully and carefully examined, and wherever practicable measures will be introduced to achieve necessary improvements. 
In compiling his report the Judge has carried out faithfully my requirement - not so much as to assess HMAS 'Leeuwin' or its role in junior recruit training as to investigate fully and impartially the prima facie evidence relating to a number of unfortunate incidents. In so doing, he scrupulously avoided any action which might even have appeared to be collusion with the command at Leeuwin. Commodore Ramsay may have felt that, in this way, he in particular, was being treated with suspicion or was even under accusation. I want to take this opportunity of say that, from first hand knowledge, I believe the Commodore to be a dedicated and conscientious officer who has become a respected father figure is his command. That he has had to cope with a small minority of lads who have caused trouble is no fault of his and no more reflection on him than on the rest of our community. Every parent, every schoolmaster, indeed every responsible citizen shares his problems. The Commodore is, I hope, compensated by the greater privileges and pleasures of his successful endeavours which see the vast majority of young men emerge every year disciplined, enthusiastic and mentally and physically fitted for service of their country. 
 In answer to the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  I think the most appropriate comment would be that which appeared in the 'Sun Herald' on Sunday when, summing up a week's frenetic journalistic attention to this problem, the report stated that it could see little harm in the exercise of the rock filling being dumped in this particular locality and that surely conservationists ought to have a sense of proportion. It is precisely this to which I wish to refer because I believe that I am here not only as Minister for the Navy but also as one of the principal conservationists in this nation. We are conserving or attempting to conserve this nation for the Australian people. This nation was born around Sydney because it has a magnificent harbour. This magnificent harbour has attracted shipping and industry to its shores. It has been developed and it has been defended through direct attempts of an enemy to enter it. Indeed, young men have lost their lives because of enemy attacks in Sydney Harbour. One of the areas which is of prime importance to the defence of Sydney Harbour and to its security not only now but also as far as we can see into the future is the South Head installation. This is an area which, during the last war, was the focal point of the harbour defences of Sydney. We all know what might have happened had the Japanese midget submarines been successful in torpedoing the USS 'Chicago' or the other large ships that were in the Harbour and causing an explosion that might have wrecked the whole of the foreshores. 
The first point that must be taken in establishing a sense of proportion is the necessity to defend the port and to enable the ships which will carry out our maritime defence to be efficiently maintained and equipped. This is what the naval installations in this area are about. It has been charged that the Navy is insensitive, that it is stubborn and that it is refusing to co-operate with the New South Wales Government in a project to establish a Sydney Harbour national park or reserve. This is absolutely untrue. I have had many conversations with the New South Wales Ministers involved in this project. I have attended their planning sessions. I have spoken with the Minister for Lands and frequently with the Minister for Conservation. The Services - both the Army and the Navy - have previously held something in excess of 70 acres on South Head. As a result of our co-operation with the State Government the Commonwealth has decided to return to the State 33 acres which will enable a large amount of the proposed national park to be established. 
The honourable member will have a chance to speak in a moment, and if he looks at the facts he will find there is Navy land involved.' I return to the point. When this particular building was being discussed the Navy bad intended putting it much nearer the point of South Head than is at present the case. As a result of discussions with the State Government it was decided to move it to its present site and in addition to sink it some 2 storeys into the rock of that area so that it would not obtrude above the skyline. In addition, a most careful study has been made of the way in which the whole environment of this area can be landscaped and improved and a very comprehensive programme of plantings of indigenous trees and shrubs, such as eucalypts, casuarinas, banksias, acacias and gre.villeas, will be undertaken. So I have no hesitation in saying that the final state of this area will be infinitely better than its original state. There will be a definite improvement of the scenic and environmental aspects of South Head. 
As for the particular question that has been raised concerning the dumping of rock and soil into the sea on the ocean side of South Head, if ever there has been a tremendous storm in a teacup over any incident it is this. Here is an area where throughout geological time there have been continual massive falls into the sea of rock and top soil identical in character to this same rock and top soil. It is this erosive activity which has created the environment and ecostructure of that area. This rock and top soil through the centuries have built up the very environment we are discussing, and nothing more than this is being done now. At the moment the total amount of material being dumped is something less than 50,000 cubic yards, which is not a vast amount. During my inspection of this area on Friday with the State Minister for Conservation,  Mr Beale,  we talked with a Navy diver who had been down to see the effects of the dumping thus far. The top of the cliff is guarded and strengthened by a wooden apron so that there will be no disfigurement of the top. The material being dumped over the side will be eventually scraped entirely below low-water level; and the contract even provides that if there is sand or other material adhering to the cliff face and if the Department of Works so desires, it shall be hosed down by the contractor. In the water this rocky material seems to offer much attraction to fish life. The diver reported unusual activity and interest on the part of fish. The water was sufficiently clear within 30 feet of the pile of material for good photography, and I have seen photographs of the curious fish sporting in the vicinity. 
There will be no long term disfigurement of any kind after the expiration of the reasonably short period of the contract. When the contract is completed there will be, if anything, a strengthening of this cliff area by the natural rock which will be placed in the sea at this point. I am informed, and indeed the paper tabled today by the Opposition states, that upon the cessation of dumping there will be a gradual return to the original state. No accurate timetable can be applied but I have been informed by scientific experts that it will probably be only about 12 months before sea weeds and other sea grasses will be re-established in this locality which is, I remind you, a very tiny area compared with the vast length of the coastline. It has been stated that the Navy, or the Commonwealth, has refused to adhere to the requirement of the State that there be no dumping in this area. This is very far from the truth. Since the time when this project was first mooted - well over a year ago - the Commonwealth has gone out of its way to delay the beginning of the work for over a year to try to reach unanimity with the State. This has been a most expensive business in terms of naval procurements and penalty payments relating to the time that will be required now, even with an accelerated rate of work, to meet our requirements. This has been a long period of negotiation and constructive discussion with the State.  Mr Beale,  the State Minister for Conservation with whom I was speaking a few moments just before I came into the House, said that he could not wish for a closer and more definite relationship in terms of mutual interest, discussion and activity. This shows how inaccurate were the remarks made by the honourable member for Hughes. He also said that the Commonwealth is the major offender. 
If what we are doing is an offence I would think that a short visit to this area by the honourable member will set him straight. We are far from being the major offender. On Friday I travelled by helicopter with the State Minister along this coastline - easily the smallest operation of this nature being conducted in the area is that being conducted by the Commonwealth. The State has a vast project on North Head which involves excavation. There is still twice as much rock to be dumped over the cliff edge from the State project before that project is completed than the entire amount that will have come from the Commonwealth project. But it is not just this type of work which is causing the trouble. The real pollution is not being caused by the top soil being shot into the sea at this point but by night soil, and as one travels along the coast one sees the great areas of ugly brown discolouration of the water because of the untreated sewage being discharged into the sea. Again we all know how local councils have used the coastline for the dumping of suburban garbage over the cliffs, and there are 2 or 3 places which are utter eyesores and disgraces. Surely in viewing this matter a sense of proportion is required. Here is an area being excavated. The only alternative that has been proposed for the removal of the excavated material is that the Commonwealth should send the spoil by truck, involving up to 180 trucks a day travelling return journeys of 26 miles, to Maroubra, and over a period of twelve weeks. The eastern suburbs would be in an uproar. Incidentally, we have made the most painstaking inquiries to determine whether there were requirements for filling within a reasonable distance of the project to which this spoil could be taken to obviate some of the trouble. This has been done continuously, and I have had 3 discussions with the authorities on this point, the last being only last Thursday. (Quorum formed) 
I want to conclude by making 2 points. Firstly, with regard to the Commonwealth's stewardship of its land holdings around Sydney Harbour, I challenge anyone to take a topographical map of Sydney Harbour and its environs and to look at the way in which the land has been utilised during the last century and longer. I would say without fear of contradiction that by far the largest areas which have been maintained free of encroachment by buildings close to the water line and which have preserved something of the original character of Sydney Harbour have been lands held by the Commonwealth. These areas today are the very basis of future planning for national park areas. I refer to quarantine areas, such as those in my own electorate, areas held by the Army and the Navy on Middle Head, North Head and indeed South Head itself, and areas further afield. The Navy, together with the other Commonwealth authorities, has indeed done well in maintaining the original kind of environment so that the original scrub and much of the original scenic beauty of Sydney Harbour has been retained. 
I conclude by saying that the kind of statement which says that the only thing wrong with the Harbour is the alienation of land that has occurred over the years would seem to imply that the only time when the Harbour was right was before Captain Cook arrived. As I said at the commencement of my speech, this is an illustration of the necessity for adopting a sense of proportion. Sydney has a harbour. It is a vast city and it requires defence. (Extension of time granted.) The Harbour is the site of a tremendous city and port which require defence. The only way in which we can really do service to the concept of a national park which will be for the people of Sydney to enjoy is, I believe, to maintain a sense of proportion. It is necessary to provide a way for every aspect of national life which is trying to co-operate to be able to have a place in the plan for this area. 
With regard to co-operation, I completely repudiate the suggestion in the words of the proposal for discussion of this matter of public importance which state that the Government has failed to co-operate with the Government of New South Wales. Of course, we have our differing points to make. We in the Commonwealth are responsible for defence and also for the health of the people in terms of such essentials as quarantine. We are in charge of many areas where it is essential for us to demonstrate our need to the State. In this regard I believe that we have been correct in doing what we have done at South Head. But as regards the overall matter of proportion, I personally as a Sydneysider, and I am sure all those members of my Department with whom I have discussed this matter are eager to see that to the greatest possible degree the objective of the New South Wales Government is realised in preserving the environment not only of South Head but also of many other areas around Sydney Harbour which today are in the stages of preservation in which we now find them because of the long term occupation of these areas by the Commonwealth. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A hydrographic vessel is under construction at Williamstown Naval Dockyard at an estimated cost of $3, 186m for construction and outfitting. It is expected to complete in January 1973. 
A contract has been awarded in the past few days for construction in the United Kingdom of two additional Oberon Class submarines at an estimated cost of $38,68 lm for construction and outfitting. Delivery of the first vessel is planned for early 1975 and the second for late 1975. 
Twenty-one Flat Top Lighters are being built by Cockatoo Docks and Engineering Co. Pty Ltd in Sydney at an estimated cost of $ 1.003m. Fifteen No. have been delivered and the project is expected to complete by November 1971. 
Three Crane/Stores Lighters are being built by Cockatoo Docks and Engineering Co. Pty Ltd in Sydney at an estimated cost of $1.570m. The first of these Lighters is scheduled for delivery in May 1972; the remaining 2 for delivery in August 1972 and September 1972 respectively. 
Two small harbour tugs are being built in Brisbane by Perrin Engineering Co. at an estimated cost of $.180m. The first of these should be delivered later this year and the second in early 1972. 
Nine Concrete Ammunition Lighters are being built by E. M. Moore in Sydney at an estimated cost of $735,500. The first of these lighters is scheduled for delivery in May 1972 and the remainder by June 1973. 
Unemployment: Registrations at Leichhardt and Newtown  (Question No. 4300) 
Many of the questions which have been raised in this debate, which has covered a fairly large field, have been answered by other speakers. But there are two or three points 1 would like to refer to. I do not think that the speech of the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  requires any particular comment other than that he spoke at great length on the invisibility of everybody, apparently, from the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  down. He only illustrated his own role of Blind Freddie. The honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Whittorn)  referred to Australia House. Australia House is a subject for discussion fairly frequently and especially in the debate on the estimates for the Prime Minister's Department. The Prime Minister in replying to a question from the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  only the other day indicated tha; the whole question of the placement, if you like, of Australia House vis-a-vis the Foreign Ministry or the Prime Minister's Department was in his mind. This, of course, has been a proposition from time to time, that changing circumstances may require Australia House to come under the aegis of the Foreign Ministry. The Prime Minister made the point that he could see. first of all. no great advantage which would stem from a reallocation and I have not heard any suggestion tonight which would change that view. There have been no proposals put. other than the pruning of personnel, which 1 think was implicit in the suggestion, which would take place if Australia House were transferred to the Department of Foreign Affairs. The Prime Minister pointed out that in any event he would not be prepared to agree to a change without first having a discussion with the British Prime Minister and Buckingham Palace. I think that this is elementary courtesy and it does bear upon the unique situation with regard to Australia House and ourselves. 
In regard to the number of personnel serving in Australia House I point out that of the total of just over  1,000,  some  380  are engaged in the immigration side of the activities of that House. This number is required because of the fact that approximately half of the immigrants who come to this country are British. The significance of this immigration activity is illustrated by the number of personnel there. 
A question was asked about Service personnel. Each of the Services maintains its own representation in the United Kingdom and these representatives have a very important role to play. That role has been important in the past and it still is important in terms of keeping in proportion and maintaining a continual exchange of ideas and thinking relating to our various Service, activities. Speaking from the naval point of view, I attach the highest importance to the continual interchange of information and consultation that takes place in this way. The argument of the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Whittorn)  was that as the proportion of our sales, as it were, to the United Kingdom was dropping, there could be a diminution of our sales staff. I do not regard this as a very good argument from the point of view of salesmanship in industry - that if sales drop you decrease your sales staff. 
The most remarkable speech of the evening was that of the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  who attacked the fact that members of the Executive go overseas in the course of the execution of their duties. He pointed out the number of times that this has been done. For the size of the business involved and the number of trips made - he said there were  27  last year by  19  Ministers - I would think that this would compare extremely favourably. if the scarcity of trips is a favourable factor, with any industrial record in the country. These are days when business executives travel around the world at will promoting their business. That precisely is the purpose of and reason for the trips that have been undertaken. I found  2  aspects of this argument rather curious. The honourable member for Adelaide has been a member of this House for a very short time only. Indeed, after he had been here only a few months he managed to obtain at Government expense what was virtually a very exciting world trip. I am sure that if he speaks frankly about his activity when he was away on this trip he would admit that his time was filled with activity, that it was a demanding experience, that it was invaluable to him as a member of this Parliament and that it extended his knowledge of a tremendous number of fields. He will find this knowledge valuable in the future. If I may speak as one who already has had one of these trips at Government expense, and several at my own, I believe that fact finding trips overseas by members of Parliament are tremendously valuable. 
When it comes to the question of overseas trips by members of the Executive I would have thought that this year, of all years, would be one when there would be a little reticence on the part of an honourable member on the Opposition side of the chamber to raise this point. I have in mind the visit to China of the Leader of the Opposition and the defence statement, for instance, made since his return. Because of the way in which one understands that he was part of a retinue of honourable members, of which the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  also was one, 1 should think that there was little room or opportunity for honourable members opposite to criticise the Australian Prime Minister in particular for going overseas to discharge what any Australian citizen who thinks for a minute would agree was an integral part of his duties and responsibilities. 
 The honourable member for Sturt asks why. When he has been here a little longer perhaps he will understand that the duties of the Prime Minister are a little different from those of the mayor of a municipality. A Prime Minister is dealing continually in the comity of nations. All the time he is interchanging his views and discussing Australia's interests with the leaders of other nations. If the honourable member for Sturt believes that Australia can be completely isolated, as the defence statement of his Leader would seem to indicate, that Australia can call down the curtain at the 3 mile limit, that it needs no interchange with our great and powerful neighbours, our great and powerful enemies, our trading partners or anyone else, it is high time those views were made abundantly clear to the rest of the Australian population. I am sure that most Australians are proud that our Prime Minister has been able to visit Washington, to have these talks, to secure the kind of assurances which have emerged from the talks and, indeed, is going on at this time knowing ahead that  Mr Nixon,  prior to his visit to China- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Corbett)  - Order! The honourable member for Sturt will cease interjecting. 
If I might enlighten the honourable member- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! I would suggest that the Minister should address his remarks to the Chair. 
Through you,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  I might enlighten the honourable member for Sturt by informing him that the Americans pronounce words and names differently from ourselves, and McMahon is one such name. It can be pronounced with a broad 'a' and three syllables or with a short 'a' and two syllables. It discloses no lack of knowledge of the Prime Minister's name to do him the courtesy of asking him precisely how his name is pronounced to his own predilection. The Prime Minister will visit the United Kingdom and I am sure that even the honourable member for Dawson, with his criticisms of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  would agree that there have been few times in the history of our relations with the United Kingdom when it has been more important for the leader of our country to have discussions with the leader of the United Kingdom than at this time when momentous decisions are being made for the entry of the United Kingdom into the European Economic Community. These are momentous times and I believe that our Prime Minister has the confidence and support of most Australians in making this kind of visit. It is nothing short of carping, pettifogging criticism to try to suggest that he is having a junket. When the time comes, if it ever comes, for the honourable member for Sturt to make a trip I suggest that he will find that such a trip as those which are planned for members of the Parliament - generally of a fact finding nature - are exhausting and demanding in the extreme but, nevertheless, highly rewarding. When he has had that experience perhaps he will interject less on these kind of statements. 
Finally, regarding the visit by the Minister for Primary Industry overseas to the Food and Agriculture Organisation conference, I would underline that tonight there has been criticism of the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  for suggesting that in comparison with the great powers of the world Australia, politically speaking, is - I think his words were - comparatively insignificant'. I would not have chosen those words myself but I think any reasonable person would agree that compared with the super powers, and even the great powers of the United Kingdom and France, Australia is, in terms of numbers and in terms of might, relatively insignificant. On the one hand this is deplored by honourable members opposite as being a denigration of Australia yet, at the same time, we hear the curious twist of the argument that because our Minister for Foreign Affairs has been asked to chair an important United Nations sponsored conference we should say: 'Sorry, we have too many policy problems at home and we cannot fulfil our role in the international realm and in international affairs'. This is a curious twist and one which certainly does not have the support of the Government. If one likes to put this in terms of industry, when our sales of rural products have dropped to the point that they are alarmingly low the suggestion that no salesman should go out into the field but should stay at home discussing policy problems is, to me, the height of nonsense. I shall not take any more time as much is to be said on the adjournment debate. 1 simply mention these points in answering those points raised by honourable members from both sides of the chamber. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Details concerning the training, organisation and effectiveness of dental hygienists in the RAN may be obtained by writing direct to the OfficerinCharge, Dental Training School, HMAS 'Cerberus', Westernport, Victoria 3920. 
I have, I think, clarified this question previously. The base at Cockburn Sound is being prepared in a preliminary stage to be a support facility for up to 12 months for submarines and destroyers. At present conversations are proceeding with regard to the specific number of each that would be allocated for permanent occupation - that is 12 months or longer - of this facility. This is, however, a facility that we see as being increasingly important and significant in the light of strategic requirements and developments in that area. There have been expressions of interest in the base by Americans whose top admirals have paid visits to the area. The United Kingdom, of course, has been interested since Captain Stirling, after whom it is named, first described it as a very important site for naval strategy in the whole of this area and the Indian Ocean. It will be developed progressively in accordance with the needs of the day and, speaking personally, I believe it will become, in the future, one of the key naval bases of the Australian continent. 
In listening to the Opposition on this subject of defence I find that what one needs apparently is a bad memory and a short memory. About a month ago the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition made certain statements in terms of the defence of Australia. He stated that our defence posture should be that of defending the Australian mainland, air space, coastline and the territorial waters. At the same time as this limitation on our naval activities is designated, he tells the public that he sees no menace, no problem, and indeed he excuses the presence of a Russian fleet in the Indian Ocean. To me these statements are quite incompatible. He went further and said that if we are to go beyond our own territorial limits we can do so only if the United Nations invites us to do so. 
I will do so in one moment. I want to put it in its correct setting. I remind the House that Russia - and China, very shortly - will be able to veto such invitations given to this nation. So the Russians with impunity will be able to sail within a short distance of our shores and we will not be entitled to surveillance and reconnaissance activities in our adjacent oceans. 
 Mr Speaker.  I claim to have been misrepresented. On 17th November the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  made certain statements which appeared in the Australian Press ascribing the estimate of 20 Russian warships to me personally. He said: 
The justification for this claim of at least 20 Russian surface warships has never been given, lt is a claim which cannot be substantiated 
That statement was widely printed in the Press and later taken up in the 'Sunday Australian' of 21st November. The honourable member apparently referred to an answer to a question that I gave on 14th October which is fully reported in Hansard. In that reply  1  stated: 
Undoubtedly, there is world concern at the Russian presence m the lr.d:an Ocean. This is evidenced perhaps by what 'Jane's Fighting Ships' said in ils foreword, namely, that  5  years ago there were no Russian warships in this ocean but today there are more than a score of surface warships and an unknown number, of submarines. 
I now table that foreword. It does indeed give the entire substance of the statement I made. I will read one paragraph from the foreword to tha House. It is as follows: 
Again.  5  years ago the Union of Soviet Socialist Republic.--,  hair  no warships in the Indian Ocean, but today there are a score of surface ships alone, and  these  is no telling how many Soviet  submarines  are in  the  area. The Soviet Navy is believed In he completing nuclear-powered submarines at the rale nf one every long month.  lt continues: 
The United States is very worried about the growth of the Soviet Navy's mounting strength in the  Mediterranean.  along North Africa and in the Indian  Ocean. 1 table that quotation to justify the statement I made. 
 I. wish to make a personal explanation. ; ' 
Yes. The honourable member for Bendigo made a number of charges suggesting that I had been misleading the House and that I had made dubious statements in referring to a particular number which 1 quoted from what anyone in the shipping world or the naval world would recognise as the most authoritative journal in the whole field of assessment of relative naval strengths of the various nations. 1 quoted from that in the House today. But I would like to point out the. fact that in quoting from the 'Australian* words that the Chief of Naval Staff was alleged to have used on his return to Australia from the seapower conference the honourable member said that the ViceAdmiral had said that there was nothing ominous about this presence. In fact, the words that the Vice-Admiral used, which are quoted in other Press comments and which he has told me personally that he used, were: There is nothing necessarily ominous about the presence of a Russian fleet in the Indian Ocean', which is rather different. As to the number of 4 ships that the honourable member has quoted from various sources, this might relate to a particular type of ship. But I would like to assure the House that as Minister for the Navy I am not going to quote particular numbers because my intelligence experts tell me that it would be completely wrong for me to do so. But I assure the honourable member that the number he has given is wrong by a factor of several times. 

 Mr KENNEDY (Bendigo)- I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Does the . honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
The answer to the honour able member's question is as follows: 
In ships and establishments of the RAN sufficient safety helmets are carried for issue to personnel who are required to work in potentially dangerous areas or at hazardous tasks needing head protection. In the Naval Dockyards itis mandatory for all personnel to wear safety helmets in designated areas, and in the docks, the floating dock and beneath all cranes, they must be worn at all times. Notices are prominently displayed indicating that entry to these areas without wearing safety helmets is prohibited. These safety instructions are rigidly adhered to and have full Union support. When ships are at the Dockyards if sufficient safety helmets are not available from ships stores they will be issued by the Dockyard store for use by crew members in designated areas. The same strict safety precautions apply to uniformed personnel as to civilians. 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
The pollution control measures taken by RAN ships are as follows: 
At sea , 
HMA ships are required to observe the principles of the Commonwealth Pollution of the Sea by Oil Regulations although not legally bound by these regulations. 
In port 
in ports HMA ships abide by the local port regulations. For remote anchorages, small ports, etc., where there are no port regulations, special naval instructions to prevent pollution are in force. 
The question of using only biodegradable detergents in HMA ships is the subject of a current investigation with which Defence Standard Laboratories have been requested to assist. 
Plans are being developed to convert oil burning ships to diesel distillate, which will reduce funnel smoke particularly when ships are lighting boilers from cold. 
The following disposal methods are used in the RAN: 
Explosives and warlike stores are rendered non-buoyant and dumped in depths in excess of 500 fathoms. 
(1) Beyond harbour limits normal shipping practice is followed and garbage and general waste are disposed of over the side. Floating material, e.g., cans, are pierced so that they are rendered nonbuoyant. Care is taken that this only lakes place when well clear of beaches. 
In port garbage and general waste are off-loaded into appropriately provided containers and cleared by private contractors. 
Effluent is disposed Of, by those vessels which are equipped with holding tanks, when at sea. The remainder of ships follow normal merchant ship practice and pump over the side in port or at sea. New construction ships will be fitted with sewage disposal systems. 
[ am aware of the statement that was made. I would offer, as a suggestion as to how this type of difference of assessment may have come about, 2 factors: Firstly, that the area designated as the Indian Ocean may vary according lo the source. 
Well, at the present moment there are 2 distinct groups of Soviet ships in the area that I consider to be, and my advisers consider to be, the Indian Ocean area. There are at present in the Indian Ocean a number considerably in excess of the figure mentioned by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition this morning. One may consider that the Persian Gulf and the Red Sea are an integral part of the Indian Ocean area. Opposition members are interjecting. I am surprised that the Opposition should take the view that this is not significant. We are talking about the Indian Ocean in terms of its shipping significance for this part of the world, the traffic through the Persian Gulf to the Far East and its future significance in the event of the reopening of the Suez Canal. This whole area, which 5 years ago saw no Russian activity at all today does see a considerable Russian fleet activity. Secondly, the other consideration that may have caused a different assessment is, what constitutes a combatant ship or a warship? I am able to assure the House that since T have been Minister for the Navy the number of ships designated as having come from that source, has, according to the weekly report - I do get weekly reports - never been less than double the number mentioned by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. 
During the last few days there have been at least 2 instances of fishing intrusion from overseas vessels in our northern waters. One has been reported in the Press this morning. A Taiwanese vessel, the 'Kuang Nam', 1 think the name was, was apprehended by HMAS 'Barricade* inside the Great Barrier Reef north of Cairns. That ship is being escorted into Cairns at the moment. There is a fisheries department representative as well as naval crew aboard the ship, and it is expected to arrive in Cairns at about midnight tonight. There was a report concerning the case which the honourable member mentioned off the northern part of Arnhem Land. Incidentally all these reports have been received from commercial shipping and directed to our attention. An Australian fishing vessel by the name of Coburg' reported a Taiwanese vessel named 'Hai Chin' in the locality which the honourable member mentioned, near Cape Wessel. The Air Force went looking for the vessel. Several sorties were flown without discovering it. HMAS 'Attack' is in the area and is also looking for the vessel, but so far no contact has been made. 
As regards the adequacy of surveillance, it is true that the whole question of surveillance for fishery purposes is currently being carried out on a limited basis by the Navy's patrol boats. There are large areas that are not under adequate surveillance if wc are to prevent all incursions of the kind mentioned. Of course, that is one of the reasons why at the present time the Navy is thinking about a different type of ship with long range and helicopters to enable greater surveillance to take place. 
 I would like to add a few words to what has been said by the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James).  I do not want to buy in any way into the subject matter that he has raised. I personally would agree with many of the things that he has said. But I feel that he has weakened his case and I am glad to say that I cannot agree with some of the comments that he made, particularly about  Sir Jack  Cassidy.  Sir Jack  Cassidy is the doyen of the Sydney Bar. He is one of the most senior of the Queen's Counsel in Sydney, and to say that in some way a fee affected the way in which he regarded his moral duty to the community, to say or imply that he went only for the fat fee and never took the part of the underdog is, in my own personal experience quite incorrect. On several occasions I have been asked in my former capacity while I was engaged at the University of Sydney to assist  Sir Jack  with cases in which he was appearing, I am certain, for a very small fee indeed because of the humanitarian content in them. I am certain also that if  he  was successful in the case mentioned it was because of his skill, because of his ability, and for no ulterior motive or underhand reason. While I can applaud many of the objectives the honourable member has had in raising this subject tonight  -  I too deplore some of the practices associated with this trade that he has mentioned - 1 cannot sit by and hear the name of  Sir Jack  Cassidy linked in the way that it has been, suggesting that he was in some improper way associated with the profiteering that has gone on at the expense of, as the honourable member said, the unfortunate woman involved. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
House adjourned at 12.51 a.m. (Friday) 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows:  (1)(a) 
One (1) 
(a) 159 
(i) 2 
Nil 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There has not as yet been any work declared by notice published in the Gazette of a civil administrative or civil clerical nature for the purposes of section 42 of the Naval Defence Act. The Department has under examination a possible form of notice for the purpose of section 42 of the Naval Defence Act. When the form of the notice has been determined it will be necessary for the Public Service Board to take action for gazettal. 
The following information is provided to the honourable member's question: 
The Indian Ocean  is  under surveillance  by  Allied services and the significance of the amount of traffic in this area  is  kept under constant review by the appropriate Australian Authorities. It would not be  in  the national interest to discuss further the size and nature of these operations. 
The answers to the honour-! able member's question is as follows: 
No. I quoted what is probably the most authoritative reference book publicly available on relative naval capacities in the world's navies. 
No comment. 
Yes. Air Chief Marshall  Sir Brian  Burnett, Britain's recently retired Commander-in-Chief, Far East, estimated the number at 'a dozen or so' - Canberra Times', 11/11/71. I am not prepared to quote classified sources. 
Yes. 
Yes. 
No. See my reply to question by Deputy Leader of the Opposition on 25th November 1971. 
They represent a reasonable if general approximation to the total situation. 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
Yes. studies have been made of the likely long term ecological effects of the development of the base at Cockburn Sound.  (2) The conclusions reached were that there would be no deleterious long term ecological effects upon Garden Island itself and that at the pollution levels in existence  in  1970 when it was decidedto proceed with the causeway, the two openings in the causeway would be adequate to maintain the existing general ecological balance in the Sound. 
A continuing programme of environmental monitoring is being carried out by the Commonwealth. 
Naval and Air Firing Practice at Jervis Bay  (Question No. 4763) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The total number of shells and missiles fired at the Naval Gunfire Support and Air Weapon Range at Beecroft Head during 1969-70 and 1970-71 was - 
I am glad the honourable member has drawn attention to the- 
I assure the honourable member that this is not a Dorothy Dixer. I am glad that the honourable member has drawn attention to the demands being made on the relatively small Royal Australian Navy. Until recently we had a ship continuously in Vietnam waters. We are required to provide ships for the ANZUK force from time to time. Recently we took part, most successfully from the point of view of the Australian equipment and performance, in the Rimpak exercise based on Honolulu. We have also from time to time taken part in SEATO exercises and other exercises and also not long ago in an exercise in the Indian Ocean, off the coast of Western Australia, which was given the name 'Swan Lake'. The South African area is, of course, a very distant area from our point of view although about 30 per cent to 40 per cent of the shipping coming to Australia uses the Cape route. For this reason it is important that this area should be in friendly and co-operative hands. As to co-operation in exercises at that distance, I think this is a question which is quite upstream having in view the size of our forces and the availability of ships. 
1 present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives, in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth humbly showeth: 
That the immediate  prospect  for nearly 70 million Bengalis in Bangla Desh and 9 million refugees in the northeast region of India is of mass starvation on a scale unprecedented in modern history. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that: 
Tile Australian Government immediately provide $10,000,000 in. direct aid to refugees now in India and commit itself to a continuing aid programme. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I would like to follow the honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson)  because I believe that he has brought an element of common sense into this situation. I would like to remind the House of the way in which the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  dealt with this whole matter the day after the incident in question occurred, when he refused to accept the kinds of divisions that have been suggested tonight and fully accepted the fact that it was the Government parties' responsibility, and theirs alone, to ensure that the House was kept and that a quorum was present. 
There has been tonight a lot of discussion as to the relative merits or purposes or objectives of the Opposition in exercising its function in what was called keeping the Government on its toes. Tonight it has been stated by the honourable member for Perth, who has just spoken, that a quorum is called not necessarily to bring about the collapse of the House so much as to cause great inconvenience to the Ministry in particular and to members on the Government side in general. This of course is recognised. During the 8 years I have been here it has been a fully recognised fact that this is one of the methods that an opposition has to harass a government. At a late hour of the night, and when the Opposition feels that business should be going in a way contrary to that which is being pursued, it is one of the legitimate devices for harassing a government. This is. as the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  said in his speech, one of the rules of the game as much as some of the things that can take place in a rugby scrum, and it is fully recognised. But on the night in question the honourable member for Grayndler will recollect that I came into the chamber immediately on the ringing of the bells. I had been immediately outside the door. I felt that there was something rather different about this evening. There were obviously a number of people who did not come into the chamber. I called out to the honourable member for Grayndler in a somewhat joking manner: 'What is the matter, Fred? Did you lose a toss in the Caucus meeting this morning?' In what I thought was mock horror at the suggestion that it was a put-up job, he replied: 'What a dreadful thing to suggest', or words to that effect. lt was my impression that there was a plan, and a successful plan, behind it. Perhaps the plan was more successful than was intended. But it was as a result of a deliberate action that the House was counted out. 
I fully accept that, and the Prime Minister the next morning fully accepted it. It was the Government's responsibility. But the point 1 want to make is that, instead pf having a slanging match between the 2 sides of the House, the Leader of the House  (Mr Swartz)  has put before the House a motion which, I believe, states quite fairly the relative merits of the case. Certainly, as will be apparent to all who have read the evidence, there was an explicit statement that was untrue in the exact wording and verbiage that was used in the newspaper. In terms of the spirit of the occasion and in terms of the severity of the incident that was being discussed, 1 believe that the motion before the House sums up very nicely what should be the proper attitude of the House. Certainly a mistake was made. Certainly it was something that reflected on the House and went far beyond what could ordinarily be intended by the circumstances. But the dignity of the House is best served by simply noting that fact. That is the reason why I - and, I hope, a majority of honourable members - will support the motion moved by the Leader of the House. 
There are 2 situations at Garden Island Naval Dockyard at the present moment that are causing some concern. It so happens though that both arise out of demarcation issues, that is, areas of dispute between unions rather than between management and unions. Management, because of bans called on work, decided to try to act in a conciliatory way and held conferences with the men concerned but apparently this only produced the result that normal work was then refused by the men. In one of the situations management has adopted the attitude towards the shipwrights involved of informing them that if they will not undertake normal work there will be no continuation of their pay. This is the current situation in that union at the moment. Another group, the members of what was the former Amalgamated Engineering Union, the coppersmiths and fitters, was informed that there would be no pay if they did not continue normal duties. I do not refer now to the men who are involved in the demarcation dispute but simply those who refused to undertake their normal duties when requested to do so by management. When these men were told that there would be no pay for no work they walked off the job. Unhappily there is this situation at the naval dockyard which is causing disquiet at the moment. 
in the House today. When referring to this report of a statement made by  Senator Sim,  he advised that until we are given the full facts and the circumstances, and until we know precisely what it was that  Senator Sim  said, it would be unwise to become too definite or too censorious. 
I feel that the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen),  who has just spoken, has accepted a newspaper report at completely face value. I would add to the instances of misreporting given by the Minister for Foreign Affairs that I was misreported on several occasions overseas. 
To my utter astonishment words not even remotely like the words I used were ascribed to me. Happily they were not serious in the sense that these words are serious. But I would be surprised if the words attributed to  Senator Sim,  as quoted in the House tonight, were not in some other vein altogether, or indeed were not put into his mouth. This will remain to be seen. I rise simply to say that during the official course of this delegation  Senator Sim,  like others in the delegation, never spoke a word out of turn although subjects such as the visit to Peking were discussed frequently throughout the journey. I can only say that I am astonished by the report and am waiting to hear from  Senator Sim  himself before making any further comment. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Darling) (11.13)- I would like to present a case for assistance to those children who cannot go to school. I am referring to the children of parents who live in isolated areas. Most of the parents in these areas have formed themselves into an association known as the Isolated Children Parents Association which represents the most educationally isolated districts in the Commonwealth. The purpose of the Association is to bring to the attention of the public and the Government the isolated rural child's lack of educational opportunities and how children beyond daily reach of school are grossly neglected educationally. Their education must be gained by either living away in order to attend school or correspondence lessons in the home. Living away means an added expense of between $400 and $1,000 and more per annum per child and, of course, some parents have 4 or 5 children of school age. However, their taxation allowance for education is the same as that of parents whose children do not incur any accommodation fee. It is claimed that the cost for parents with 3 children living away while attending secondary school would amount to $1,200 to $5,400 a year, and this does not include books, uniforms or fares. 
Everywhere I travel in my electorate I am approached by parents of these children asking that our governments, both State and Federal, give some consideration to the problem of these children. Only today the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr 
Grassby) referred me to some correspondence that he had received on the matter. It expresses the tragic circumstances of these people. The letter deals wilh an answer which the writers received from the State Minister for Education and says in part: 
Then he suggested sending the children to NSW schools. Yes, we have 2 children at NSW schools and let's face iti The marvellous subsidy we receive a mere $117 per year, we can only alford to send 2 children away as to get down to bare facts, we have to find another seven hundred dollars for each child per year. Or does he not realise that to send an isolated child to school boarding fees are anywhere from $20 to $30 per week without extras and our children do not have any unnecessary extras as we just have not the cash. 
Yos, he has marvellous suggestions but after paying out two death duties for the past six years and it is still not closed up yet, droughts and now low wool prices, where oh where! Where does the cash come from to pay for boarding fees for the rest of our 6 children? Looks as if there will be thousands of country children sadly lacking in education if we do not receive help soon and I mean very soon as believe me the people in the country areas are very worried indeed, as we just cannot see how we can educate our children. 
And so it goes on. The Government's lack of provision of accommodation has made suitable boarding facilities difficult to find except at independent schools. Correspondence schooling with today's complexity of education makes an unfair and an often impossible demand on the mother's time and a further drain on near non-existent income if a governess is employed. I have presented many petitions to this Parliament, each one containing hundreds of signatures. These petitions clearly point out the injustice being done to the children who cannot go to school. I have not heard anyone oppose the case of these children. However, their parents are getting sick and tired of waiting for some assistance. Surely they do not have to pitch their tents on the lawns in front of Parliament House before any notice is taken of them. 
A child who has daily access to school is eligible for free transport and schooling regardless of its parents' income. The children who live beyond daily reach of school - they represent a fraction of the nation's school children - are not granted free travel and what assistance is granted is subject to a means test. To prevent these children joining the ranks of unemployed and those nearly unemployable because of their low educational standard, immediate assurance of aid must be given to parents, to schools and to hostels to ensure that these children can complete their education. It is not right that children of parents who are financially destitute should be condemned to face fife educationally destitute. This position will not ease until financial responsibility for education is taken by governments and until they acknowledge their educational obligations and provide for education for all school children. The average rural family is larger than its urban counterpart and this again places a heavier burden on the isolated parent who must find finance for boarding children in order to give them access to school. In most cases these parents have from 2 to 4 children living away from home simultaneously in order to attend school and have to meet fees ranging from $400 to $800 per annum per child. 
This lack of foresight in the nonprovision of accommodation at rural high schools has aggravated the situation and led to a transitional reliance on independent boarding schools. Rising fees at these schools are placing them beyond the reach of most rural parents. While there are a few independent hostels in rural areas, these are not adequate for the numbers of children requiring accommodation. Living away allowances are granted in some States but these are hopelessly inadequate and are subject to a means test. In addition they vary from State to State. The means test on these allowances needs to he relaxed or abolished and the same applies to bursaries and scholarships granted by the States. There is no means test for entry to government schools or for bus travel, yet one is applied to the meagre living away allowance which is at present given by the States to children forced to live away from home in order to attend school. Some of the things that the parents of isolated children are asking for are as follows: 
$10 per school week allowance for all children forced to live/board away from home to attend school and that this be reviewed annually; no means test. 
That this allowance be paid direct to school, hostel or place of board. 
That$400 per annum per family be allowed for a supervisor for children doing school at home. 
That there be a taxation concessional allowance of $800 for isolated children's parents and that this be carried forward in year of loss. 
That the Government be asked for subsidy of$1 for $2 for running costs of hostels. 6. (a) That travelling allowances for taking children to school or bus daily, weekly or monthly be 7.5c per mile per vehicle. 
That isolated children should be issued with free travel warrants to school and return each term. 
That the objectives of the Association be applied to all children irrespective of where they get their education and there be no discrimination where children are schooled across State borders. 
That some assistance towards costs be allowed for parents forced to maintain a second home to give children access to school which would otherwise be unavailable. 
On the subject of education I wish to draw the attention of the House to the Income Tax Assessment Act (No. 3) of 1971, the amendment of which provides for a taxation allowance of $400 for students. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) 2,903 acres. 
Approximately 14.5 miles. 
The area which will be used in the present development is approximately 600 acres and will encompass approximately 5 miles of the coastline. However it is to be noted that less than 50 per cent of the island is considered to be suitable for the erection of buildings; Navy's future plans envisage use of most of this area. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
None. Certain mining rights were applied for but the applications were later withdrawn. Although a current State oil exploration licence embraces a wide area in the vicinity of and including Garden Island the licence is ineffective in respect of Garden Island as it is Commonwealth property. It is believed that applications to mine off-shore limesand deposits are currently lodged with the West Australian Warden's Court and the Commonwealth has entered an objection. 
(a) None. 
None. 
None. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I invite the honourable member's attention to a reply given on this subject by the Prime Minister in the House of Representatives on 2nd March (Parliamentary Debates, 2nd March 1972, pages 476 to 477). 
Visit by President of Indonesia  (Question No. 5116) 
The answer is very simple. The grenades were washed ashore at Palm Beach on Sunday morning, 12th March. During the day reports of this incident came through on the radio but no information was given to the Navy by the police to whom the matter was reported. So the Navy at that time took no action. On Monday the 'Sun' published an attack, which I can only describe as ill-balanced, claiming that the Navy, with the Army, had ducked for cover on this issue, that indeed they should have sent platoons of men to search the shores, and implied that these devices came from HMAS 'Sydney'. I contradicted this statement emphatically, saying that the Navy had had no information from the civil authority and, had it been requested to assist, as in the past it would have spared no effort to mount the search and try to lessen the danger. When inquiries were later made it was discovered, mainly through a chance conversation overheard in a hotel and followed through by naval policeman, that a quantity of explosives bad been thrown overboard from HMAS 'Jeparit'. 
We could discuss that subject at the honourable gentleman's convenience, and I would be delighted to do so. These particular explosives were not brought on board HMAS 'Jeparit' by naval personnel; but because it is a cargo ship, when it was unloaded at Vung Tau it was under Army supervision, Army gangs unloaded it, and the Army Provost Corps provided security. It so happens that in the Navy very strict precautions are taken to record all explosives that are officially brought on board a vessel and to account for their use. When it was found that some boxes of grenades apparently used to deter enemy divers and frogmen had been left on board by accident, these were thrown overboard at sea at the direction of the ship's officers. One box was not discovered until the ship was close to Australia. It was then thrown overboard without authority and some of the explosives floated ashore. They were not naval issue. The Navy had no knowledge of this until inquiries were prosecuted in detail and so my statement was completely correct. These explosives have never been on naval issue and so were not of a type known to the Navy at that stage. 
I present the following  petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to national development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-Yes. In the television programme to which reference has just been made I called one motion a motion of principle. It was a general motion which stated that the Government Parties as a whole repudiated and condemned antisemitism and that they stood firm in this regard. The other motion to which I referred as bringing politics and personalities into the debate was one which, rather than taking the matter of principle as I have just described it, chose to align these matters with an alleged statement by a member of the Liberal Party, thus bringing in an individual and as a member of a political party. It was this motion to which I referred. 
During the last few years there have been considerable developments in the Royal Australian Navy in terms of conditions of service and of the way in which the engagement period is handled. For instance, optional discharge is now available in every category for those who enlist in the Navy. Young men who come in at the age of 15½ as junior recruits, young apprentices who go to HMAS Nirimba' to train as tradesmen, adults who enter the Navy and members of the Womens Royal Australian Naval Service are able to obtain an optional discharge after a certain period which gives them an opportunity to assess naval life and whether they are suited for it. Nevertheless, I do agree that the 12-year engagement period, particularly for young men of15½ or thereabouts, is a very long period and, 1 believe is an anachronism in this day and age. 
The answer is: It would depend on what is meant by 'substantial*. HMAS 'Stalwart' brought back for me from Hong Kong 4 small stools about 18 inches square. If that is 'substantial' the answer is yes; if not, the answer is no. 
 Mr Speaker,  I seek your guidance on a matter affecting the presentation of petitions to the House. You will be aware that today the presentations of petitions took almost threequarters of an hour. I have reason to believe from an analysis of some of those petitions that, of 20 signatures relating to an early election, 13 were those of members of the Parliamentary Labor Party here present. I ask: Is this, in your opinion, a proper process to engage the attention and time of the House or is it a misuse of the method of presenting petitions whereby citizens can bring matters to the attention of the House? 
Every Australian, voter or not, should study this defence debate before the next election. It has been an astonishing performance by the Opposition - I could say a completely phoney performance. I do not mean that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  has been dishonest, or the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross)  or the young member from Blaxland  (Mr Keating).  These are good, sincere men. They are not Communists. I do not doubt for a moment that they dislike communism every bit as much as I do. The great question to ask is: Where are the others? Where is the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)?  We know where he was yesterday - calling for the mobs to return to the streets to demonstrate support for the North Vietnamese invasion of South Vietnam. He declared that the North Vietnamese Government was completely justified in its actions. This is a man who sits on the front bench of the Opposition. He will have Cabinet rank in any future Labor government and he would have a vital say in Australia's defence arrangements. May we not ask whether the Leader of the Opposition agrees with the sentiments that he has expressed? It is obvious that this man despises South Vietnam and her allies and is hoping for a Communist victory. I ask how the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  can equate the Labor Party's statement of support for ANZUS with the call by one of his own shadow Ministers for an end to the United States-Australian alliance. I put it to the Leader of the Opposition that the ANZUS Treaty would soon be swept away should the Labor Party come to power. Men like the honourable member for Lalor would use that power to undermine the defence capability of this country. 
The honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison)  is another kettle of fish.  His  attempts to continue to pass as an informed, fairminded diplomat are painfully contrived.  His  material is a disgrace, like his careless charges about bugging hotel rooms and his manipulation of the report on the Indian Ocean. He uses the truth within severely engineered limits. Here is the grand strategy of the Opposition. Members opposite must somehow persuade Australians that they are the true custodians of our defence and security. So we hear of men like Chifley and Curtin - men who would squirm in their graves to hear their patriotism yoked with that of the honourable member for Lalor inside and outside of the Parliamentary Party. What I am pointing out is a monumental confidence trick which is an impertinence to .the Australian people. 
Let us look backstage. At this moment  a  small nation is fighting for its very life. It could have been at peace and at least as hopeful for the future as South Korea. The Communists decided otherwise. They started a new war in 1957 after an international conference had begun the process for building a free nation in Vietnam. By murder and terror, long before any United States or Australia combat troops entered Vietnam, the Communists liquidated the officials, the youth leaders and the cream of the village leadership of South Vietnam. When we came to their aid under the South East Asia Treaty Organisation the Australian Labor Party danced to the Communist tune, and has done so ever since. 
In 1968  -  less than 4 years ago - the North launched the bitter Tet offensive and foully butchered thousands of civilians whose mass graves are still emerging. That was a turning point of the war. The people rose up en masse in horror at the communist abattoirs which inevitably follow communist military victories. Their will to stay free and independent was everywhere obvious when some of us visited there a year or so later. Given economic and properly reducing military aid, the South had a good chance - at least as good as had Korea - but what happened? Across the world the communists have contrived and presented a process of protest and mass manipulation of public opinion. Today we have seen the true colour of the Opposition. We have been told that peace would be possible if only we were to persuade the Americans to stop the bombing of the North and to come to the conference table instead. The bombing was stopped, and the weary years of futile talking in Paris have sickened our hopes. We were told that if only a definite plan for withdrawal of the troops were to be announced, then peace would ensue. The withdrawal is far advanced, but where is peace? We were told that the other great requirement was a political opportunity to be given to the National Liberation Front in the South. This too has been offered but what is the response? I will tell honourable members what the response has been - the relentless, cynical buildup of all-out invasion and bloody war. That war is raging at this moment. But there is now a difference. 
The difference is this: With the communists clearly staging an unprovoked, major offensive, suddenly the great many voices of protest are silent. The streams of refugees are greater than at any time since 1968, but there was no vigil this Easter outside Parliament House. In less than a decade we have seen the moral basis of our society under siege, not only on matters of sex but in the basic disciplines and conventions on which free nations depend. Drugs, pornography and blasphemy are commonplace. Here in Australia the Australian Labor Party has been increasingly associated with this moral decline. The machinery of defence is useless,  Mr Speaker,  if the will to defend is destroyed. We have seen Australian Labor Party protest and sabotage of the Government's defence policies from 1954 onwards, when they joined the Communist Party in denouncing our decision to send troops to help the British defend Malaya. Since that date every move to build up regional security has been assailed by the Australian Labor Party. Front bench members of the Party, dodgily supported by their Leader, have openly advocated law-breaking and mutiny. This is where the Australian Labor Party stands on defence. This is where it has been drifting for 20 years - into the hands of men with mass manipulative powers whose policies differ little, if at all, from tho.se of the communists. 
If the South is unable to prevent the communist takeover of Vietnam, and if the inevitable mass liquidations occur, the blood of hundreds of thousands of men, women and children will be on the hands, not only of the leftists of Australia, but those dogooders opposite and in the pulpits, universities and trade unions who have done all in their power to sabotage allied assistance to the South and insist on a withdrawal ahead of military prudence. More people have been executed by the communists in Asia in this last decade than the entire population of Australia. An official United States Senate Committee's report quotes the figure of 13.3 million people liquidated in China alone from 1961 to 1965. Communism, like the Australian Labour Party, may have changed its postures and its propaganda in some places, but the real policies, the utter ruthlessness and the ultimate objectives are still the same. 
Let me conclude by recalling events somewhat nearer home; I refer to Indonesia in the early 1960s. As that nation drifted towards the communist camp, the Russians built up its arms. The Navy was provided with submarines, a heavy cruiser and missile-firing torpedo boats. The Air Force had Badger bombers and MIG fighters. As always, along with the arms and aid, the communists provided ideologists. By the time the coup was attempted in 1965 - less than 7 years ago - the Air Force and the Navy had been infiltrated and much of their top leadership was unreliable. In the Army things were different. We in this land had special relations with the Army, and we exchanged officers for staff college training. When the revolt occurred, the communists set out to eliminate the top Army leadership. Most top generals were trapped, their eyes were gouged out and then they were forced to run naked among communist women who slowly tortured them to death with knives. Two generals escaped - Nasution and Suharto. They acted swiftly to seize Radio Djakarta to prevent the order for widespread selective massacre going out to the nation, and they brought the tanks from Bogor. 
Rubbish. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Luchetti)Order! I ask the Minister to proceed but to limit his remarks to the debate. 

The list of persons for liquidation in that effort makes one's blood run cold. Indonesia would never have had a chance as a free nation for generations afterwards. The plot failed. Why? How much was due to the way we and other Western powers kept doors open and gave military and other aid even when it was dangerous to do so? How much was due to the fact of allied resistance in Vietnam? Those in a position to know say that it was a crucial factor, and there is the point of my connection. This is an example of regional responsibility in defence. That is the kind of thing the Australian Labor Party wants to destroy. It wants us to pack up and come home behind the 3 mile limit. 
One of the most specious bits of twaddle the Leader of the Opposition and the Deputy Leader of the Opposition have ever spoken, and that is saying a lot, was to talk recently of restricting our military actions to the territorial sea and not venturing outside those limits unless invited to do so by the United Nations. China and Russia have a veto on such decisions by the United Nations and they are the countries which will increasingly have nuclear submarines and missile-equipped ships off our very coast. The Labor Party would deny us the ability to keep an eye on them and, if necessary, challenge their incursion into areas of vital interest. The Labor Party wants to pull out of ANZUK and bring the troops home from Malaysia and Singapore, choosing to forget Lee Kuan Yew's words that if Indo-China fell to the North Vietnamese then the rest of South East Asia would soon go through the Communist mincing machine. Time will not permit further illustration. I conclude by repeating that the Australian Labor Party reflects purely and exactly the Communist attitude towards Australian defence: Keep out of their present areas of aggression and await our turn at home; train our youth to jeer at the military and denigrate military service; decry discipline and respect for authority, obedience and other moral essentials for a strong nation. This is the antithesis of the Government's attitude. If anyone wants to sell Australia out to superficial popularity then the Opposition will show them how. 
Sitting suspended from 5.59 to 8 p.m. 
The question of the replacement of destroyers in the Royal Australian Navy is as yet undecided. It is being studied by the Department of Defence and the Department of the Navy. A very full and searching inquiry is currently under way and nearing completion. There has been no decision of any kind, to my knowledge, for the issue of any tender documents relating to this project, and there must be some mistake of which 1 am completely unaware at the moment. I will certainly see that an inquiry is made - 
I would simply like to emphasise to the House that no decision has been made at the Government level or any other level with regard to proceeding to construct DDL destroyers. If there is an advertisement which is calling for tenders - 
The heading on the document handed to me by the Leader of the Opposition is 'Registration of potential tenderers', which puts the matter in rather a different light altogether. This is an entirely different matter. If the Government is to proceed to make a decision between various types of ships and is to accept the advice, for instance, of the Department of Supply or the Department of Defence that a particular type of ship can be built in Australia. 1 would imagine that it would like to make some inquiries as to whether there would be within Australia people who would be interested in doing this work. 1 repeat what I said earlier that this has no bearing on the decision that the Government will make, in that there is no commitment of any kind to the construction of the DDL either here or elsewhere. At this stage the matter is completely open and a decision will be made after advice is given to the Cabinet by the Department of Defence. 
The honourable gentleman's question is obvious in its intention. I do not believe that anyone has a harder job in this nation that has the Minister for Customs and Excise in the portfolio that he administers. He stands directly in the path of attempts made from many quarters and for many motives to put into this nation a type of literature that we could well do without. In following through his duty he has been less than assisted by many honourable members who sit behind you,  Sir, and  who have spoken on subjects such as drugs and who have not backed him up in administering his portfolio. He will get full support from the Navy. 
I fail to see the connection 
1 wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. The imputation in what has been said is that I was lying when I described a conversation that 1 personally remember and have remembered vividly from the day of the conversation to this clay. I was a serving member of the Royal Australian Navy and was out of this country for most of the time  Mr Curtin  was Prime Minister. I, of course, remember quite vividly the first occasion - a dramatic occasion - on which 1 was able to be present in the office of the then Prime Minister of this country. I remember the conversation well. The honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Allan Fraser)  has gone on to impute that what 1 said with regard to the stand taken by both Prime Ministers was a false view of their position. Let me just ask honourable members to go to Hansard and take out the volume for 1950, when  Mr Chifley  as the Leader of the Opposition made a speech in reply to a speech by  Mr Menzies  announcing the sending of Australian troops to Korea. In that speech I remember - and I remember thinking back on seeing reports of that speech - 2 points being made: Firstly, that with regard to the war that was taking place in that country he- 
I will conclude in 2 sentences. 
I will conclude by saying that the honourable member for Eden Monaro nodded his head when I said that the imputation was that I had misrepresented the stand taken by these right honourable gentlemen. I simply say thai on a study of the speech it will be seen that my 2 points are relevant. Firstly,  Mr Chifley,  as Leader of the Opposition, pointed out strongly that it was not a question of the character of the governments of North Korea or South Korea - although he abhorred the former - or any other fact than that there was invasion from the north to the south taking place. I believe he also pointed out that similar circumstances could apply in the future in the case of other nations. This is vastly different, as I said in my letter, from the current situation in which the Labor Party is placed. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following ships are based in Western Australia: 
HMAS Diamantina and HMAS Acute 
Diamantina Acute 
Converted Frigate 'Attack' Class Patrol Boat 
2,127 tons 146 tons 
19.5 knots 21-24 knots. 
Other ships may be deployed there as occasion demands. 
Tn my view a great deal of the subject matter of this question should properly be addressed to the Minister for Civil Aviation. As far as the Navy is concerned, I have had no intimation from my officers or serving members of the Navy of the purport of the question which the honourable member mentioned. I will be in HMAS 'Nirimba' later today and I will endeavour to find out whether any such plans are in hand, but at the present moment I know nothing of the existence of such a suggestion. 
 Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. During the course of his remarks the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitiam)  said that I had been represented at a Croatian meeting and he put a particular connotation on an aspect of Croatian activity that took place in Sydney. I state that I do not have any recollection of asking an acting or assistant private secretary of mine to represent me at such a gathering. I did have a former employee who was married to a Croatian girl. It could be that in those circumstances he was present at this meeting. However, 
I state that I believe there are good and loyal Croatians in this community. I have no intention- 
I have been misrep-resented if it is suggested that I condone in any way or am prepared to do anything less than utterly denounce extermism of any kind that is based on racist or political attitudes, especially those imported into this country. This is proved by my warm and close association with the Serbian community as well as with loyal members of the Croatian community. 
I seek leave to make a very brief statement to correct a statement I made at question time. 
On Friday last the Sydney Mirror'- 
Yes,  Mr Speaker,  I do. The Sydney 'Mirror' of Friday, 21st April last carried a remarkable story, the substance of which it attributed to the honourable member for Chifley. In part that article states that I had forgotten a conference held earlier this year between myself and 3 other Ministers - the Ministers for Civil Aviation, Air and Defence - about the re-evaluation of HMAS 'Nirimba' as a civil airport. The article went on to state: 
Speaking on the adjournment debate last night,  Mr Armitage  said it was an extraordinary coincidence that  Dr Mackay  had forgotten about the Nirimba' talks and their purport, while admitting he was visiting 'Nirimba' later in the day. 
No such conference ever took place. I have never had a conference with these Ministers on this subject. This has been amply demonstrated- in a statement made by the Minister for Civil Aviation to the Press to correct this matter. I table that statement which indicates the complete context of this matter, which was trivial compared with the nonsense that is in this report and which was spoken in my absence by the honourable member. 
Single personnel at the future facility on Garden Island will bc accommodated to a large degree on the island itself. At present investigations regarding married quarters are proceeding with the State housing authorities and others. There are several possibilities in regard to married quarters. The town of Kwinana, which is some 8 miles inland from Rockingham, and Safety Bay arc other suggestions which have been made as to the location of housing for personnel. I believe that during this week the authorities will be getting together to discuss this topic and I hope that a decision will be made very shortly. As to the public use of Garden Island, when the Prime Minister was in Western Australia recently he indicated that the Navy will not currently require the entire area of the island, which has traditionally been used as a place of recreation. It is anticipated that approximately 10 miles of the beach line of the island will be available for public use and something like- 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
 I would just like to speak very briefly, appreciating what has been said by the  Chairman  of the Public Works Committee and other speakers from this side of the House. The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  did use publicly a portion of a briefing that I personally provided for him before he left for Western Australia, in reply to a question from the Press. If there was any impropriety in its contents, I accept full and complete responsibility for it. But I deny that there was anything improper because, as has been explained to the House, this was a letter that was not intended or conceived to be sent as a private or privileged document. It was simply a letter confirming, after further review publicly made and publicised statements that the area to be made available for public use could, in the Navy's opinion, be slightly extended. That is the full story. There is nothing more nor less to it than that. 
The matter was considered by the Navy, and I was most astonished, when answering a question recently, to have the hon ourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  draw my attention to the fact that he thought I was pre-empting, in some way, the activities of the Committee. This was far from my mind or intention. I believe that what the  Chairman  of the Public Works Committee has said is perfectly correct, that it is highly desirable to have no action from the Executive pre-empting the decisions of the Committee. But nevertheless, the basis on which this inquiry began was the taking of public evidence and the giving of the public statement by the Department of the Navy of what its requirements were. It was my duty, I believe, to see that this was accurately stated. 
The letter that was received by the Public Works Committee was not marked confidential. I had no knowledge it was received in a private sitting. Therefore, I just want to explain to the House that I am personally responsible if the Prime Minister made certain statements that the Public Works Committee regarded as having been received in private and therefore as being privileged. That certainly was not in my mind, and I had no knowledge that the Committee had been sitting in private. It was never intended that that letter should be so received, as has been explained. I personally believe that the Prime Minister has nothing whatsoever to answer. 
In the 'Canberra Times' this morning there is a report which gives the substances of charges made last night in the House by the honourable member for Hughes. I would like to correct the report and say that it was with reference to the honourable member for Hughes - not  Mr Johnson,  the Administrator of Papua New Guinea, whose photograph appears. However, the remarks made by the honourable member for Balaclava, who is a member of the Public Works Committee, in answering fully the charge were not reported nor was my reply reported. 
To set the record straight I would like to give the substance of this matter. The Public Works Committee had a hearing in Western Australia to inquire into the Navy's requirements for land for its naval installation purposes on Garden Island. During that hearing the Navy made a public statement of its expected requirements and indicated that the matter was under study at the time and it could possibly make more land available. In consultation with the Prime Minister and the Naval Board the decision was made that some additional land could be made available. This decision was conveyed immediately to the Public Works Committee which, it so happened, without our knowledge was then sitting in private. The information was expected and anticipated by the Public Works Committee, as indicated in its report which is before the House. This information was given as information which the public had a perfect right to know. It was information of Government decision. This apparently was received while the Committee was sitting in private. Some honourable members imagined therefore that it was privileged and privy to the Committee. 
I just add a word because my name has been mentioned. I was glad to receive this material for one reason. 
That is hardly worth commenting on. I was glad to receive it because I think it is important that in our position as members of Parliament we should know something of the type of material which is being circulated in this country and is associated with this type of activity. But at the same time I completely uphold your position as  Speaker  of the House in deciding that you did not consider that you should be made a party to the distribution of such material. It is one thing for a person to take on himself the distribution of this material by the means that are publicly available through the public postal services and by that means deliver a document to us. The responsibility and the onus for the distribution or publication of that material is then entirely in the hands of the sender, but I think that you,  Sir, have  a perfect right to decide, on looking at the material, whether you your self should be a party to the publication and distribution of that material. I believe that the standard you have set for the publication or distribution, whichever word you wish, throughout this House to honourable members is a proper one. I repeat what the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  has said. I believe you were perfectly correct, and it was in keeping with the dignity of your office that you should not regard yourself as necessarily bound to distribute that type of literature. That we should see it is another matter. I make no quarrel with the motives of the person who sent it to us. I personally repeat that I was glad that I was informed of this type of material being circulated in the country, but at the same time I fail to see why any censure should rest with you,  Sir, for  having not associated the Parliament and the staff under your jurisdiction with the distribution of this material. I believe that your decision should be upheld. 
It is quite right that a few weeks ago I was asked a question about this matter - I think by the honourable member for Sydney - and I indicated that I had hopes that a scheme of free discharge, after giving 18 months notice subsequent to certain requirements of return of service being fulfilled, could be instituted. I am happy to say that agreement has been reached on this scheme and it will be announced in the course of a few days. The details of the scheme, roughly speaking, are that a junior recruit now entering the Navy at ISi years of age at HMAS 'Leeuwin' will not be required to serve the full 12 years of his engagement. He will have to fulfil a minimum requirement of  4i  years service. As to the effect on the numbers borne in the Service, of course the basic idea behind it is to make the Service more attractive as a career for young men. It is hoped that this scheme will improve the enlistment rate, which is not entirely satisfactory at the moment. Nevertheless there are indications that the naval service is being seen as more and more attractive. The re-entry rate has risen by over 100 per cent in recent months. Re-engagements of senior sailors are running at the rate of about 70 per cent which is, as everyone will appreciate, a very high figure. 1 will not be satisfied until I see the institution of a scheme whereby sailors can enter the Service for a lifetime career, not simply for stipulated periods of 12 years or 9 years. The scheme would envisage their being able to remain in the Navy throughout their working life with the possibility of discharge after 18 months notice, which would be the minimum requirement. I believe that this will make the Navy still more attractive and will increase the numbers rather than otherwise. 
... I was glad to receive this material for one reason. 
 That is hardly worth commenting on. 
I have been misrepresented. I did not say that. I certainly did not query whether the Minister liked reading that sort of stuff. I am convinced in my own way that he does. But that is not the point. The point is that my interjection was: 
That is the way you get your orgasms. 
I said that last night. This may well be offensive to somebody, in which case I am quite prepared to have that withdrawn from Hansard. It seems ridiculous to me to put an interjection in that I did not make instead of the particular interjection which I did make. I therefore ask that Hansard be corrected in that way. 
The Naval Board has the authority to determine wages, salaries and conditions of employees under the Naval Defence Act, but these determinations must be consonant with the directions of the Public Service Board with regard to the alignment of salaries and the corresponding qualifications for particular positions. 1 think that what the honourable gentleman is referring to with regard to inspectors is that there are several classifications of inspectors proper. For instance, class 1 inspectors are a grade or two above examiners and it is at the examiner level that an inquiry was undertaken recently by the Public Service Board  to ascertain whether the Navy has been applying the rules of the Board too rigidly. At the present time an inquiry is taking place - as another inquiry did about 7 years ago - to determine whether there should be some scrutiny of the rules as they apply to the promotion of examiners to the inspector grades. If the honourable gentleman will give me the details of the basis of his inquiry I will ensure that further information is adduced for him. 
It is true that whenever ships of the Royal Australian Navy visit our ports they are made welcome by the people. I feel that their relationship with particular cities is of great importance to the morale not only of the Navy but of the people of Australia. I personally have a great desire to see the name HMAS 'Adelaide' continued in the fleet. I remember with affection the old HMAS 'Adelaide* of the last war. She was a beautiful ship and had delightful lines. She was one of the most pleasant warships I have ever seen at sea and I would like to see ships in the future carry the name HMAS 'Adelaide*. 
She was built in Australia and I trust that that will be a continuing precedent. With regard to the names of other ships that we are developing, I trust that a number of other cities will find that they not only have an association with them in terms of the names given to the ships but also will feel a special bond of relationship and interest in the activities and careers of their name ships and the men in them. I thank the honourable member for the suggestion. I can assure him that it is very much in the minds of other people also as to how soon we can have an HMAS Adelaide'. 
There has been a good deal of activity over the last 6 weeks in the national and local Press, much of it under the imprimatur of the Leader of the Opposition, alleging that I have been misusing public moneys in that I have had stationed in my Ashfield office at times when he has not been in Canberra a young man who is training as my Press officer and who, from time to time, assists constituents with their problems and is always available to do so. Let me elucidate on that. Since I have become a Minister, like other Ministers I am not in my electorate as much as I would like to be and all members of my staff from the private secretary down will, when a constituent has a problem, listen to the problem and direct it to the proper authorities for answer. This is not an unusual practice and I am at a Joss to understand why the Leader of :he Opposition should attack my credibility and the propriety of my actions in this way. May I make 2 points: Firstly, my files disclose that the Leader of the Opposition himself has used his own staff to direct constituency problems to me; for example, I have letters from his own private secretary who is a permanent public servant. This same private secretary, 1 understand, is a candidate for the next election, is being paid as a permanent public servant and is currently electioneering in the electorate of Casey. I fail to understand how this criticism can be made of me for looking after constituents. 
 Mr Speaker,  I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 
In my statement to the House I made it quite clear that I did not regard it as outside the duties of a member of the staff of the Leader of the Opposition or a Minister to deal with constituency matters. 1 do not regard these as party political or partisan activities. I have gone so far as to state to this House that I believe it is the duty of members of my staff, from my private secretary down, to deal with such matters if they are directed to them and to ensure that they go to the right authorities with regard to letters on constituency matters. The Leader of the Opposition mentioned representations on behalf of a Navy wife at West Heidelberg. Victoria. The others, as he indicated, do not show the area from which they come but they involve constituency problems which have been directed to me by the private secretary of the Leader of the Opposition. 
There is no way of telling. 1 have no way of telling that. The question remains that I drew attention to what I believed to be a very good reason why the Leader of the Opposition should not take exception because he has told the House that his private secretary works on week-ends in his electorate. As I understand it, private secretaries are paid lump sums in lieu of overtime. The Leader of the Opposition has 2 private secretaries. As far as I am concerned, my private secretaries are fully engaged as it is. I cannot see that this is anything other than a misuse of his publicly paid position. 
The 1972 Budget could be seen as the hinge of Australia's political history. It tells a vivid story; its detractors tell a starkly different one. What are its major facts? The Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  summarised it by saying 'taxation down, pensions up, strong growth on the way again'. This is only part of the reality. Even in these matters it is hailed as sound and responsible by most experienced commentators. But it is far more than that. This Budget stands as a beacon of achieve ment of change by parliamentary process in the economic and social policies of the Government. It stands too in an atmosphere of threat. It is time, some say, time to change the basis of government. But for what? Let me inform honourable members. It would be for the introduction of a system of economic and social revolution. The Australian Labor Party wants to alter the basis and fundamentals of our society, not just in economics but in our entire social structure. If by mischance Labor is elected to office then let the people not say that they have not been warned. 
Let me point to 3 statements which have been made; firstly, the statements made by the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  on a recent 'Monday Conference', secondly,  Mr Peter  Westerway's interview with management consultants in Sydney and, thirdly, the address of the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  to security analysts. All these statements tell the same vivid story. If Labor is elected there will be a destruction of the existing basic fabric of our economy. It will be drastic and probably irreversible. That is the clear evidence of Labor's intentions and it is publicly available. Does Australia warrant this radical surgery? How does Australia stand? Let us leave the knockers with their slogans and propaganda aside and look at the picture, the picture of unemployment, for example. It has been stated that the unemployment level is as high as 2 per cent. That, by the Government's terms, is still much too high but it is the envy of most nations. Then in relation to economic strength, with our natural reserves and the manufacturing capacity of this nation, the talk in Australia and around the economic world is of the possibility of upgrading the dollar. 
Take the area of social adjustment. We live in what is virtually a classless society, compared to most other nations. We have a stable and scandal-free Government and until very recently we had freedom from violence and threats to security. This is a great place to live and we all know it. We do have areas where change is needer? and let me name now some of the areas which in past years have demanded change. For example, there has been the fear of inadequate security for retirement, illness, the education of a family and the provision of a home. Then there has been the frustration of unfair tax burdens on the middle and lower income groups as well as the fear of exploitation by power groups in both capital and labour or by foreign interests. Finally I mention the fear of ultimate national insecurity in terms of defence. This Budget tackles nearly all these great and challenging needs and it does so responsibly. It tackles them in the context of proven performance and it builds on proven foundations and through parliament-based change. Let me illustrate this. Some years ago I coined the phrase: The mad, mad arithmetic of the means test'. I meant it. Thrift and initiative were held at nought. I felt deeply incensed at what I saw of fine men and women who had served the nation in peace and war reduced to the level of ne'er-do-wells and wastrels by the soulless mathematics of the 100 per cent taxation of the means test. I worked and worked for a . solution. With  Mr Ian  Wilson- 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, can I have some relief from this babble? 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Contraceptives are not issued to Navy personnel. 
The cost of prophylactics against VD for supply to Navy personnel during each of the last 5 calendar years is as follows: 
I have seen a new journal in which a  Major Peter  Young has declared that he believes that most of the Australian Navy is obsolete. He made that statement on television some time ago. Probably the answer to the question lies in the fact that the Royal Australian Navy has recently completed a very important exercise conducted with the navies of the United States of America, Canada and New Zealand in which nuclear submarines and highly sophisticated missile firing ships were involved. Our fleet under Rear-Admiral Dovers acquitted itself particularly well in 3 spheres. I think that that gives the lie to the suggestion that our fleet is ineffective against a modern, sophisticated enemy. Our Australian designed and produced Ikara weapon proved itself at least equal to anything in the world as an antisubmarine weapon. The A4G Skyhawks from HMAS 'Melbourne', the only fighter aircraft associated with the exercise, were declared to be successful in frustrating attempts by very sophisticated ships to penetrate the defences of the fleet. Perhaps it would be even more surprising to many Australians to know that the Wessex helicopters and the Tracker aircraft from HMAS 'Melbourne' together with the United States aircraft carrier - they were the 2 types of aircraft used - were successful in frustrating major attempts by nuclear submarines at high speed to attack the fleet. This is a gratifying result. Of course, we are looking forward to new and even more capable ships but, as the fleet is constituted at present, it is capable of dealing with a very considerable degree of sophistication. 
The answer to the honourable gentleman's first question is yes. The Komar and Osa class patrol boats used by the Soviet Union have been considered for particular purposes. Their role is extremely limited. At the present moment a study is beginning within the Department of the Navy of the replacement in the future of our 'Attack' class patrol boat with a more sophisticated boat which undoubtedly would carry a missile. However, in regard to comparisons with the DDLs, there is a tremendous wealth of evidence to indicate that, although these smaller boats might be faster in calm conditions, they just could not perform such duties as surveillance in particular, escort duties and anti-aircraft defence duties. There are many roles that could not be fulfilled by a small patrol boat type of craft. This study is produced in detail and already a lot is in print to demonstrate what I have outlined. If the honourable member would like to have more information on this matter 1 will see that a comprehensive analysis of the study involved is made available to him. 
I support the motion and oppose the amendment. The nation, almost without exception, through the mass media and the commentators, has agreed that a tremendous and virile change has taken place in our social service benefits. Yet the Opposition's amendment reflects a niggardly and dog in the manger attitude. It would have been all very well if members of the Opposition had said: 'This has been done remarkably well. It has produced a number of changes that the whole nation wants to see*. They then could have gone ahead and spoken about nationalisation and the comprehensive national system of social security that only a socialist government could devise. But, to listen to the spokesman for the Opposition in this field, the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  one would imagine that there was not tha picture that can be seen by anyone who has eyes to see, but something that was parsimonious and indeed discriminatory against large sections of the community. 
For instance, let me just take his opening plea that there had been 'no fundamental change in the Government's approach to social services in over 2 decades'. Let me quickly run through just a few of the changes that have taken place in over 2 decades. Take, for instance, the Government's concern for Aboriginal people. The amount to be spent this year on Aboriginal welfare is up 70 per cent to $53m. That is being spent on a total population, full blood and otherwise, of 150,000 or less. Accommodation for disabled persons is a new area into which the Government has injected a subsidy at the rate of $2 for every $1 provided for sheltered workshops and the like. The whole field of age pensions has been transformed from one in which pensions were regarded as an emergency measure to help out those in indigent circumstances to one that provides something well and truly comparable with the requirements for retirement. The Government has indicated that it has taken into account Professor Henderson's delineation of a poverty line and has sought to bring all persons in the nation, by pension means or otherwise, above that poverty line. We have seen the pensions for aged persons rise from $4.25 a week in 1945 to $20 a week, that is the standard rate, in 1972. The Government also has revolutionised the field of aged persons homes, as anyone visiting homes for the aged must see, by giving subsidy in that field. 
The allowance for wives of pensioners has risen in times past under this Government from $3 a week to $8 a week. Now it is to be replaced by a pension of the order of $17.25 a week as a maximum for wives of pensioners. This of course is a tremendous step ahead, as anyone who has worked in this field will realise. We have seen the allowance for each dependent child rise from $1.15 to the present amount of $4.50 a week. The age at which student children may still be regarded as dependent has been increased from 16 to 21 years. We have seen in recent times the Delivered Meals Sudsidy Act to subsidise meals on wheels for persons confined to their own homes. Significant fringe benefits have been introduced in addition to all the things I have mentioned. I refer to such benefits as the pensioner medical service, the radio and television licence concessions that have been granted, the special telephone rentals that apply and the hearing aids that are supplied as necessary. Funeral benefits are to bo increased. The assistance provided for handicapped children will be increased by the same type of $2 for $1 subsidy as is used for capital development. Income tax concessions for aged persons once again have been revolutionised, and today a single aged person on a pension will pay no tax if his income is equal to or less than $1,326 per annum or, in the case of a married couple, if their combined income is equal to or less than $2,314. 
I could go on to mention the other fields and the way in which this Government has revolutionised - I use the word deliberately - the prospects of persons relying upon social services. The guardian's allowance will be increased to $6 a week. Mental hospital patients who at one time were regarded as entirely within the province of the States now are able to look forward to receiving up to 12 weeks pension paid on their discharge. We have taken a new attitude to nationality so that there is now no discrimination against aliens who have qualified for pensions by residence; the residential qualification period has been reduced from 20 years to 10 years. Are these 'no fundamental changes' over the last 2 decades? What about the special payment which is paid to a surviving pensioner after the death of his or her spouse, where now up to 12 weeks pension at the double rate will be continued to soften that period of shock and economic setback. Other improvements concern the supplementary assistance and the provision for persons who are temporarily absent from Australia, which has been increased so that when they return from overseas they may look forward to receiving up to 30 weeks pension. Of great interest to persons who come to Australia from other countries and spend their work ing lives here and wish to return to their old countries to pass there remaining years of life is the provision being made for the portability of pensions. After fulfilling a residential requirement, these persons will be able to return to their homelands - the lands of their birth - and will enjoy the receipt of a pension that has been earned in Australia. 
I will not go on with benefit after benefit that has been introduced by this Government because I believe that the nation knows, understands and appreciates that the Government is not just tinkering with this matter as the honourable member for Oxley said. There is a wide, comprehensive spectrum of careful thought and planning that has gone into the whole matter of establishing the width of our social service benefits. Then, too, we heard the honourable member for Oxley talking about unemployment benefits and he made great play in 2 areas. Firstly, he said that the unemployed benefit of $17 a week is only 20 per cent of the present average weekly earnings. Of course, what he did not say was that by contrast, in the majority of cases, where there is a husband and wife to be taken into consideration, standard married rate of old age pension or $34.50 a week is equal to or greater than half of the average minimum award wage in the nation. This begins to look something like a payment that is in keeping with retirement, and for which, I remind honourable members and all who may be listening, as yet in Australia there is no contributory payment made. So it is completely misleading to compare this nation and what it does through its social services with those compulsory contributions that are exacted in so many countries with which we are compared, allegedly to our disadvantage. 
Let me give one example of this. The honourable member for Oxley quoted to us the case of the Danish people. As the Adelaide 'Advertiser' of 1st lune this year stated, over recent years some 18,000 Danish migrants have come to this country. Something like 16.3 per cent have returned to their home country. We heard the story of the 'melancholy Danes', to quote the headline, who were returning because they were dissatisfied with the level at which social service provisions Were made for them. The honourable member for Oxley might well have quoted also from the Advertiser' of some 2 months later. Let me quote to honourable members what the Adelaide 'Advertiser' had to say on 16th August, immediately after the Budget was introduced. The article began with the words: 'Ir*s a supercharged Budget'. The article continued: 
Most people expected a big effort to improve the Government's standing. Their hopes have been surpassed ... it will attract wide interest and support. 
The article continues: 
One of the most obvious weaknesses in the economy, however, has been the lag in consumer spending. . . . the Treasurer chose the most direct and probably most widely acceptable way of aiding Industry and speeding expansion - by increasing the spending power of consumers. 
Of course, this was the kind of comment that did not fit the Opposition's case, and so was neglected and was completely lost to the audience of the honourable member for Oxley when he spoke. 
The honourable member for Oxley went on to talk about unemployment benefits as still being below the poverty level and he devoted a large part of what he had to say to, in effect, an innuendo that the Government was somehow deliberately keeping down payments to unemployed people so that they must live at a low level at which it was desirable in the Government's eyes to see people subsist. I personally resent this statement and its implications. It is absolute nonsense to suggest that any government, particularly in an election year, would deliberately go out of its way to see that there was a large repository of unemployed. Indeed, this contradicts the very obvious strategy of members of the Opposition, who appear to me to be smiling from ear to ear whenever the figures for unemployment rise. 
The fact remains that while there are so many tears shed with regard to the unemployed - we heard them referred to by the honourable member for Oxley as unfortunate wretches - one wonders how much persons like  Mr Hawke  lose from their weekly pay packets when he and his men put striking men on the dole. We find that persons who are not in receipt of earnings and who are required to go on to unemployment benefit, as a result of both political and industrial strikes, are reduced in terms of their income. These are the matters that were produced for our edifica tion by the honourable member for Oxley. He referred to the way in which he believed the Government - to use his own words - has failed to control inflation'. If there is one field in which I believe the Government ought to have some room for pride it is this very field. The Government has had success in dealing with inflation. 
I have in my hand a table from the journal of the First National City Bank in the United States setting out the depreciation of money as the pace of inflation quickens across the world. There are tables for both industrialised and less developed countries, and the changes in the cost of living around the world are set out in tabular form, starting with the country whose economy has been depreciated least by inflation over the decade from 1960 to 1970. The country that comes second on that list with a 2.4 per cent decrease in the value of its money because of inflation is Australia. Greece is first on this list with a 2.1 per cent depreciation over the decade, Australia is second with a figure of 2.4 per cent and it is not far down the list that the figures reach 4 per cent, 5 per cent and, indeed, 6 per cent among industrialised countries. 
During the last year for which the record exists, 1971, the percentage depreciation of money in Australia due to inflation is set down as 4.7 per cent. South Africa is shown as having a figure of 5 per cent. Germany had a 4.4 per cent depreciation and the United States had the same percentage. Switzerland had 6.1 per cent, New Zealand 9.7 per cent, Italy 5 per cent, France 4.8 per ce.nt, Sweden 7.2 per cent, the United Kingdom 8.4 per cent, Japan 6.2 per cent and Denmark which has been quoted had 5.1 per cent. In that company of developed countries Australia's position is enviable. This completely belies the charge, that was levelled against the Government that it had failed to control inflation. Of course, it has not been totally controlled. Much more needs to be done, but the Government should not be unduly humble about its performance. 
I want to conclude my remarks by talking about one aspect of the Budget - particularly of the social services field - that has gratified me personally. I refer to the way in which inroads have been made into the means test so that it is certain that in 3 years it will be completely eradicated. As honourable members know, it has long been a theme on which I have been vocal. I can only say how delighted I am to see that the penalty on thrift or what I once called the mad, mad arithmetic of the means test is soon to be no more. I am somewhat sorry to see that it will be impossible for the actual adjustments of pension rates for superannuated persons to be made before Christmas even if they are to be back dated, which I welcome. When I listened to the Budget Speech I did not imagine that there would be such a complex provision as actuarial determinations based on life expectation. I am afraid that I made some wrong interpretations at the time. T am sure that many pensioners will be as confused as I was at that point. 
I congratulate the Minister however because he has found it possible to give us ready reckoners and tables to enable us to explain the true situation to our constituents. It is particularly necessary for all of us who are responsible persons in this House to see that superannuated persons, particularly those who will become eligible for the first time, make their application as soon as possible so that the pensions granted to them may be dated from the time of application after the provisions come into force. That is something which I trust all persons receiving superannuation will attend to. Even if they are doubtful whether they are eligible to receive this new benefit, all aged persons - men over 65 years, servicemen over 60 and women over 60  -  should make application for this new benefit in social service pensions if they are in receipt of superannuation payments, because the amounts are. quite large. Persons receiving superannuation and who are not at present receiving a social service pension should apply, particularly if with no other assessable property or income they receive superannuation which, in the case of a single person, amounts to $3,690 a year or $70 a week or, in the case of a married couple even if their income from superannuation being the only source of their income is $6,500 a year or $125 a week. That is computed on the scale for persons aged 65. 
In the case of persons who are older than the minimum pensionable ages this income will be larger. For example, at age 77, for a married man with no assessable means other an superannuation, this table shows that he would be able to receive superannuation benefits up to $10,404 a year or $200 a week. In the case of a single man he could receive up to $5,900 a year or $113 a week and still receive some pension. Therefore, I believe it is important that people make application as soon as possible because as the person's age increases so the percentage deducted from his pension because of superannuation receipts, reduces. At age 65 some 80 per cent of the property value is taken off in terms of the means test. This diminishes to 67 per cent at age 70 and to 55 per cent at age 75. It is halved at age 77, and at age 80 it is down to 43 per cent. So the total receipts of eligible and aged superannuated persons will increase with their age - this is as it should be - as they become less and less able to Fend for themselves. I conclude as I began, by saying that this is an exciting Budget. It has brought revolutionary changes to the complete concept of social service benefits in this nation. I most heartily congratulate, the Minister on his achievement. 
Debate interrupted. 
There seems to be some confusion, in certain newspapers in particular, about the circumstances of this incident and the supposition that these boats were under naval custody. In point of fact, although they were arrested by a naval patrol vessel, the normal procedure was followed, namely, they were handed over to the civil authorities on a civil charge. These particular Formosan fishing boats were at Lorengau in custody of the civil authorities, having been handed over by HMAS 'Aitape*, which made the arrest. During the night of Saturday last, when their captains and engineers were ashore in custody, the boats apparently evaded restraint - if an active guard was placed on them - and escaped from the harbour. The first that was known of the escape was about 1 o'clock in the morning, when the Navy was alerted to this fact and immediately the 'Aitape' and one or two other boats put to sea to try to apprehend them. 
The circumstances legally are rather difficult. Unless they were sighted before they had got outside the 12-mile limit and hot pursuit had been mounted there was no legal ground on which, having got outside that 12-mile limit, they could be apprehended. At 8 o'clock next morning an air sweep was made by civil aircraft, as well as the action taken by the patrol boats, but by that time it was realised that they must have been outside the legal limit and there was no point in pursuing them further. The matter now rests with the civil authorities who have the captains and engineers in custody. 
The facts alluded to by the honourable member for Sydney are quite correct. Shipbuilding generally in Australia is causing quite a deal of concern. With the exception of Williamstown, which now has the allocation of the light destroyer programme, dockyards, and in particular the one at Cockatoo Island, which is fully equipped and capable of performing sophisticated naval construction, are causing me and everyone connected with them concern. The situation is that we do not have the volume of shipping to keep 2 dockyards in full operation from the point of view of the Royal Australian Navy. However, there has been an arrangement made whereby Vickers, the British company, has leased facilities at Cockatoo Island Dockyard so that the company may, while carrying out our submarine refits and other naval construction, look for and undertake private commercial work to offset its overheads and to try to maintain efficiency. Last week the Minister for Defence received a very large deputation. I was present at that meeting and we discussed the possible work load for the future. I can assure the House that we are giving very close consideration at the moment to every possible way in which highly skilled men, some of whom have beenin the employ of the dockyard since 1938, as in one or 2 cases I know of in the black trades, will no longer have their jobs in jeopardy. This is a matter of concern and it is receiving the most sympathetic and urgent attention of all who may be able to help. I can say only that we are hopeful that we will be able to devise ways in which the impact of lack of work on the shipbuilding field may be minimised. 
I appreciate the concern of the honourable member with regard to the increasing frequency of incursion by overseas vessels into our territorial waters and our defined fishing limits. This has been an increasing phenomenon. Recently the majority of these vessels - not exclusively - have been Taiwanese. There has been an official statement from Taiwan warning its nationals against this practice. The surveillance of the fishing limits is not fundamentally a designated naval function. Indeed, with regard to the whole coastguard question there is a shared responsibility between a number of government departments, the Department of Shipping and Transport being the primarily responsible Department. I suggest that the question about coastguard activities might, therefore, better be directed to the Minister for Shipping and Transport. 
With regard to the capabilities of the Navy to fulfil the functions it is agreed it should carry out at the moment, there has been a readjustment of the operations of our available patrol vessels. A new scheme is coming into operation in the New Year giving greater regional responsibility, for instance, to the Cairns facility and the 3 boats that are based there as well as 3 others in Darwin. At the same time we are beginning to look at the prospects of replacing the existing Attack class vessels when they become obsolescent. This study is now in progress with a view to acquiring just the sort of vessel to which the honourable member alluded. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Although they may frequently have the effect of preventing conception, they are not issued for this purpose, but solely to prevent the transmission of venereal infection; they are not, therefore, regarded as being contraceptives. 
Navy: Shipbuilding programme  (Question No. 6492) 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
(a) One (1), (b) two (2) 
One. 
(a) On order in Australia - a hydrographic vessel of 700 tons under construction at Williamstown Naval Dockyard, (b) on order overseas - 2 Oberon Class submarines under construction at Scotts Shipyard in Scotland, (c) commissioned during the last year - HMAS Teal, a Mine Counter Measures Vessel which had been in reserve. 
The disposal authority is the Department of Supply and there were 6 ships disposed of. They were Tobruk, Barcoo, Quiberon, Culgoa, Kara Kara, Quickmatch and Gascoyne. 
I did notice in a supplement to the 'Australian Financial Review' of 9th October a large advertisement adverting to the Dutch DDG inserted by several companies assisting with the building of that ship. It struck me at the time as being strange that as the Australian Government had decided to design and build an Australian ship, the DDL, the Dutch should go to the extent and expense of a full page advertisement with subsequent editorial comment. This occasioned considerable concern in my Depart ment. This has been reflected at the Williamstown Naval Dockyard. It would seem that the Dutch at least are under the impression that there is now an area of doubt whether the firm decision of the Australian Government to build the DDL in Australia will be implemented. I believe that the House and the nation have a right to know whether there is a connection between the coincidence of the visit to Holland by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, the shadow Minister for Defence, and the appearance of this propaganda inside Australia for another type of vessel. I think these matters are germane and indeed I feel that it would be good if the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition could explain to us the purpose of his visit because I feel that this also would be helpful. 
As the Leader of the House the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  has been occupied with other duties he has asked me to sit in on behalf of him and his Department to give certain assurances that can be given at once. 
As most speakers have said, this is a noncontentious matter. The Bill simply extends the subsidy on nitrogenous fertilisers at the existing level of $80 per ton until 31st December 1974, and it changes the basis on which certain imported fertilisers become eligible for a subsidy. It is around this that several honourable members have asked questions. Firstly, I will refer to some of the remarks made by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson).  We are pleased to hear that he considers that the various attributes of imported fertilisers compared with those of the local products are exhaustively examined by the Department of Customs and Excise and by the Department of Primary Industry. This of course only describes what is true. It is good to see that on both sides of the House this has been recognised. 
As the honourable member said, this Bill will help to ensure that the opportunities to import fertilisers which prove to be more advantageous in particular areas which were mentioned are available to independent distributors. The honourable member may be assured that the Department will continue to exercise very close oversight over prices actually being charged to farmers. 
The right honourable member for Fisher  (Sir Charles Adermann)  may be assured that the subsidy is indeed paid to the producer. The House will recall that he wanted an assurance that the same sort of conditions will pertain as applied when he was a Minister and when he took every precaution to ensure that subsidies of this kind went to the producer. The situation is that this subsidy is not paid unless the Minister is completely satisfied that the selling price to the end user - the farmer - is such as to pass on to him the full benefit of the subsidy. No matter how many middle men there may be or how many hands it may pass through in the process, the principle still applies. 
The honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  made some observations about there being 2 chemically identical fertilisers. I was not sure whether he meant chemically similar in terms of the end product of say available nitrogen or whether he was referring to physically different properties relating to chemically identical substances. Nevertheless, the Department of Customs and Excise and the Department of Primary 
Industry are always ready to examine the practical results of such substances in field trials, to analyse the experience of growers and so on. The aim is to decide whether these fertilisers are or are not sufficiently alike to be treated as identical, that is regardless of whether they are from overseas or locally produced, whether they are to be treated as like substances for tariff or customs purposes, and therefore whether they are directly competitive. I would add also that the advice of the State departments of agriculture and scientific bodies, such as the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, is sought, particularly when there is any doubt or difficulty in arriving at a decision. 
When the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  spoke it was apparent, as is quite frequent when he makes his statements, that again a number of his points were not substantiated. They did not have a great deal to do, so far as I could see, with the issues in the Bill which is before the House. I must take specific exception, however, to the allegation that the officers of the Department of Customs and Excise are not doing their jobs properly, which I think was implicit in one of the statements the honourable member made. The Department has at least 8 fully qualified accountants who check producers' costings thoroughly. The suggestion made by the honourable member for Riverina that somehow or other a lot goes astray on the way is not at all appreciated. In conclusion, I would like to return to the assertion that it is the intention of the Minister, the Department and his officers, when sums of money are made available by way of subsidy, to take every precaution to ensure that the money does not pass into the hands of middle men but that, in fact, it gets to the farmers who are intended to be the recipients of the subsidy. Those were the conclusions and the suggestions that the Minister asked me to pass on to the House and I have done so with pleasure. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
 I will not spend any time referring to the remarks made by the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  before the suspension of the sitting except simply to say that the replies to his questions were, as always in the case of questions on notice, prepared with the full authority of, in this case, the Medical Director-General of the Navy. The expressions were his and I was not greatly surprised to see the line of questioning taken by the honourable member. I want to speak about the DDL destroyer programme and refer to some questions which have been raised recently as a result of the visit to Holland by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  and first of all to make clear what it is the Government is trying to do in Australia with regard to this ship. Having looked around the entire Western world at the availability of suitable types of ships as replacement destroyers for the Royal Australian Navy, and having been persuaded that the replacement of destroyers by ships of that type is absolutely vital to our defence requirements, the Government has tried to hit upon the solution which most nearly fits the Naval Staff's requirements for our nation in view of our geography and other considerations. This, of course, is a highly complex task. 
The whole process of bringing together those weapons and systems which are the most necessary and the optimum for our requirements is in itself a very complicated task and one which we are fully aware will bring us to the fringes of development in this field in terms of the free world's military capability. During this period and particularly after the Government had made its decision on the material before it, I personally gave to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition the fullest access to the available information so that he could not only come to the briefings prepared by Naval Staff but also, without me being present, talk with the Chief of the Naval Staff and his subordinate officers and ask any questions at all. I must admit that I was somewhat taken aback to learn, in a roundabout way through the Press, of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition's secretive trip to Holland which unhappily coincided, though I am sure that it was without his knowledge, with a visit of a mission from the Department of the Navy and the Department of Defence with regard to the negotiations with the Dutch for the acquisition of one of the components we see as desirable for our DDL destroyers. Whether or not there is a connection, there has certainly been a hardening of the Dutch attitude in the bargaining that has taken place over recent days. This of itself may not be unconnected with the visit of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition but perhaps hopes may have been raised that the Dutch could find a customer in Australia for their DDG destroyers. 
The DDG is, as we have said, a ship that we have looked at very closely. It is not ideal to our requirements. There are many aspects of it that are net entirely suitable. For instance, the very elaborate 3-dimensional radar that is an obvious feature of its outline has not proved to be entirely successful and is not even to be produced in future in Holland for their own requirements let alone sold abroad. There are other considerations. For instance, it has a much larger manpower requirement and this is a major item of cost in a project of this type. If 50 or 100 more mcn are required for the Dutch DDG than for the DDL, over the lives of the 3 ships this could mean an additional $50m to $100m. There are in other fields differences which make the DDG less desirable in our estimation than others. I refer particularly to such things as the command and control system of the Dutch vessel which, while I have no doubt about its efficiency and capability, is a different system to that which we are using in our own fleet and therefore would add to the logistic problems associated with training, maintenance and other aspects if it were to be introduced. So it comes back to this point: We do have the problem here of a ship which certainly has many features in common with the proposed DDL but which at the same time is a ship which could give us some reason for disquiet if it were to be fastened onto by the Opposition. I must admit that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has not indicated in any way that it would be an alternative to the DDL. 
I turn now to the other matters to which I wish to refer briefly in the few minutes at my disposal. I mention first of all the electronics industry in Australia. This industry is a sort of corollary to our shipbuilding activities in this country and, by way of example of the kind of matter which occupies my mind on this question, there has been a great deal of talk from the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby).  This was reiterated yesterday by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  with regard to the cost of colour television sets in this country. They said that they would cost up to $1,000 a set, the suggestion being, and the only reason I can see for the kind of line taken by the honourable members to whom I have referred, that somehow or other the whole question of colour television should be subject to a different tariff approach which would allow into this country overseasproduced sets, such as Japanese colour television sets, which would lower the price to the Australian consumer because the alternative is the virtual subsidising of the Australian electronics industry. In a large country like the United States of America there is every possibility that the defence aspects of an electronics industry are  ofl  such a volume as to give viability to the industry to enable it to function and keep : up with its research and development and  I  so be an important part of the defence capacity of the nation. We still regard our own electronics industry as an important adjunct to our defence requirements. 
There are many areas in which the Navy has heavy reliance on modern communications. The equipment with sophisticated weapon systems and the availability  of  effective support from the Australian electronics industry is of prime importance to the Navy. There has been and there continues to be close association between the Navy and the electronics industry in large new projects and Ikara, our anti-submarine weapons system, is one example of close co-operation with local industry. So I would suggest to the Committee that the continuation of a viable electronics industry in this nation is of defence significance. I personally cannot see an argument that would first of all put men out of work in our domestic appliance electronics industry if we were to import on a large scale, as is done in the United States, Japanese and other overseas manufactured products. This would possibly jeopardise the existence of a sophisticated industry of this kind which is of defence significance to us. I add that aspect as one which the Government must consider on a much wider spectrum than those other aspects I have mentioned in view of the large expenditure involved in colour television. 
It is interesting that the suggestions should come from the Opposition benches when, as I have done, it is possible to go into the Japanese companies and factories making colour television sets and inquire about the working conditions and the wage structure of employees in those companies and to discover, for instance, that in the Matsushita works which makes the National appliances the incentives, the over-award payments and the inducements to production add, by over 100 per cent, to the base wage rate of the employee. Having watched the employees working so assiduously there and having seen the incentive systems at work, I think it perhaps is not surprising that the price has a differential from that of the Australian manufacture. I will not take more time at this stage in the debate on these estimates. These are just 2 aspects that occur to me as being of considerable significance in terms of our future programme. 
For the information of honourable members I present the official report of the Australian Parliamentary Delegation to Japan and Korea. 
