My question is directed to the Minister for Housing. In view of the confusing and contradictory statements made last night in the Victorian Legislative Assembly by the Victorian Minister of Housing,  Mr Dickie,  on Victoria's refusal to help thousands of homeless people by joining the other States in the proposed new Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement, will the Minister inform this Parliament on the current state of play? In particular, can the Minister clarify whether  Mr Dickie  has agreed to accept the Commonwealth's offer of $1.5m in emergency housing grants, or is he still jeopardising the building of ISO new homes for the needy in Victoria by refusing to accept the Commonwealth's condition that all homes built with the emergency funds must be for rental only? 
At the outset I should like you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  to convey my congratulations to the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope)  on being elected to the important position of  Speaker  of this House. I feel very confident that he will occupy that office for many years to come and will ensure that the proceedings of this Twenty-eighth Parliament will be conducted with efficiency and decorum. I am quite confident that he will cope. The Bill outlined by the Minister provides for substantial increases in all pensions, retrospective payments to 2nd December 1972 and then periodic increases until the pension reaches 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. The pension will then escalate with the movement of average weekly earnings. 
The honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  raised the question of the pension reaching 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. I direct his attention to the second reading speech of the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  who said: 
We are mindful that, if there is not some abatement in the rate of growth in average weekly earnings in 1970-71 of 11.3 per cent, then the regular annual 2 promised increases of $1.50 will have to be increased to achieve pension rates at 25 per cent of average weekly earnings within a reasonable time. Of course, we would be prepared to respond appropriately if such proves the case. 
That statement may dispel some of the apprehension the honourable member might have had in moving the amendment. A number of anomalies have been removed, including 2 very important discrepancies which militated against the long term unemployed workers and junior workers. The Bill must be seen as the first stage of a new concept in social security. I am bound to say that the quantum of the pension is far from satisfactory. It is a mere pittance to those who find themselves, either through illness or for some other reason, unable to fend for themselves or their dependants, or who find themselves tossed onto the labour market by the policies of the previous conservative governments. It is typical, yet still shameful, that the discrimination against unemployed people should have been blatantly enforced by the defeated government. 
The Government's ability to increase pensions is restricted at this time by the fact that the people who now sit opposite have left the economy of this country in an appalling mess. The disastrous economic policies have forced the Government to divert money towards a major economic reconstruction. The architects of those policies should hang their heads in shame. It would be remiss of me if for the record 1 did not go back to outline where thenbrutal plans originated. In the 1971 Budget the McMahon Government deliberately put people out of work to keep over-award payments down. Two years ago this policy was advocated by the then  chairman  of Broken Hill Co. Pty Ltd,  Sir Colin  Syme. On 14th April 1971, he said: 
Inflation in Australia is reaching danger level. We should regard the situation as very serious and encourage the Government to take steps to control it. We should then put up with what the Government does without too much whingeing. One necessary measure seems to be to reduce over-full employment. 
The statement was surprising only because of the blatant way in which it was put forward. It gave an insight into the thinking of the then Government's big business backers. Similar statements quickly followed from Ministers of the McMahon Government. For the benefit of profit, they argued, a situation should be created in which human beings who are able, willing and ready to work for their families, should be deliberately thrown out of work. 
The demand-depressing action taken in the 1971 Budget when there were no real indicators of a demand recovery and the continued assertion in that Budget that wage increases were the basic cause of inflation led one to the conclusion that the McMahon Government had cynically decided to increase unemployment as a means of combating that inflation. This conclusion was reinforced by  a  statement made by the then Treasurer in January 1972. 
The 'Australian' of 22nd January 1972 quoted the then Treasurer, when commenting on the latest unemployment figures which showed 120,574 persons registered for employment in December 1971, as saying: 
We have achieved what we set out to do in that we have created an environment in which over-award payments are depressed. 
The record speaks for itself. The former Government did achieve what it set out to do. The then Treasurer wanted to tame the militant unions, regardless of the cost in human misery. The man who carried through that cynical program of misery now sits opposite as Leader of the Opposition. He carries on a tirade of abuse at the drop of a hat, while pleading that he is not really anti-union. But he is the same person who before his entry into Parliament must have made a small fortune representing employers in the Commonwealth Industrial Court, kicking the insides out of the unions during the period referred to last night by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  in his maiden speech. 
At that time, with the right honourable gentleman - that is, the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)-  leading on behalf of the metal trades bosses, the metal trades unions were fined approximately $500,000 including costs, for simply defending the right of their members to fight for wages and conditions. The right honourable gentleman must rank as a failure as Treasurer and, on his performance so far, he can have long odds - perhaps 33/1 - about himself remaining Leader of the Opposition for the full term of this Parliament. 
Now it is Labor's task to put right the shameful wrongs of the right honourable gentleman's policies. So far Labor has provided, firstly, some immediate relief to pensioners as a first step towards a whole new deal, and secondly, for the removal of discrimination against long term unemployed workers and junior workers. It must be some satisfaction to people who lost their jobs that we have won government, and that members of the former Government who were responsible for that inhuman policy are in their proper place on the Opposition benches. Labor has provided, thirdly, a generally more optimistic economic outlook as Australians realise they once again have leadership from their national government. 
I wish to refer now to a number of other matters arising out of the provisions of this Bill. However, before I do I am bound to say that I have listened with a great deal of interest to some of the contributions made by Opposition members on such subjects as defence, tariffs and revaluation. I have also been revolted by the irresponsible behaviour of some people in calling for divisions in a way which is obviously designed to frustrate the proceedings of this Parliament. It is the responsibility of every member of this Parliament to expedite the passage of Bills such as the one before the House now in answer to the demand of the Australian people that the reforms outlined in the policy speech of the now Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  be implemented without delay. The Labor Party has a clear mandate. I therefore call on members of the Opposition to sheath their sabres, forget for a while their profound interest in the welfare of multi-national corporations, get their heads from under the haystacks, and reflect on the plight of the human beings who are recipients of pensions outlined in this Bill. In particular, I would like them to listen to some of the problems confronting the underprivileged residing in the inner suburbs of Melbourne. 
The electorate of Melbourne which I now proudly represent in this chamber has changed little over the past decade. People who live in the electorate still cover a wide spectrum of the workforce. Accordingly, a great number of their hopes and their aspirations are union-based and union-orientated. My job in this place is to put their case. That poses, no embarrassment for me whatsoever. I am a unionist. I feel like them; I think like them; and I speak like them. I am of them and I am for them. For many years I have been a trade unionist and trade union official, and my years of experience in the industrial sphere of this country have demonstrated to me that the present welfare system, after deteriorating throughout 23 years of Liberal mismanagement, is now a crumbling, fragmented and socially unjust patchwork offering no real social security. I do not claim any literary pretensions. But I have noted with interest the title Dame Enid Lyons has chosen for her latest book dealing with her time as a member of this House. She has called it: Among the Carrion Crows.' Thinking about that title we can find the key to the national feeling which recently swept my Party into government, giving us one of the strongest and clearest mandates for change in the history of Australian politics. 
On 2nd December the Australian taxpayer decided to sweep the carrion crows from the Government bench, in many cases, thankfully, never to return. Their places on the Treasury bench have been filled by a team which reflects and upholds the electorate's demands for new enthusiasms and new aspirations in government. It was Bulwer Lytton who said: 'The prudent man may direct a state, but it is the enthusiast who regenerates it'. Within that framework it is a pleasure to be able to reassure all Australians that this nation is now governed by a team of enthusiasts, bent on regenerating lost hopes and lost causes for a nation we can all be proud of. One of the key enthusiasts is the Minister for Social Security and it is a matter of great pride to me that my first contribution to discussion in this chamber is in support of the new deal in social security he is initiating. I do not propose to engage in specific endorsement of the legislation which he has put so logically, rationally and irrefutably. It stands on its own. However, I do want to stress the social consequences in broad terms. 
What the Minister has done here is to start the levelling process between: the haves and the have-nots in a manner which is long overdue. We are ending 23 years of misgovernment during which this country lost its recognised place as a world leader  in social and political reform. This Bill could be seen as a technical legal matter, merely' changing the rates of benefits, but to do so would be to neglect its real role. It is a symbol - a beacon - of things to come. No longer will a pension rise be a political football; dependent upon the imminence of an election or the likely collapse of another Liberal government. No longer will social security be used in a mean, vengeful spirit against workers in distress. No longer will workers grow older fearing that they will not be able to enjoy an adequate standard of living after retirement. Under the previous Government, workers who suffered injuries at work faced not only the impossibility of living on workers compensation payments but also the cruelty of not knowing for sure that they would get any benefit; workers were never sure when they would be facing up to the counter of a Commonwealth Employment Office week after week, having to wait 7 days to accept unemployment benefits which were only a fraction of the real cost of living; workers faced periods of sickness knowing that Commonwealth social security sickness benefits would barely keep a family from starvation; workers could never be sure they would not receive an injury at home which left them unemployable, and facing a lifetime on an inadequate invalid pension. More than any other electorate, the electorate of Melbourne will reflect the benefits in this Bill. Melbourne provides a perfect study in the extremes of affluence on the one hand and deprivation on the other - extremes which have been created within our society by a series of conservative governments. It is the heart of the nation's industrial and commercial wealth, the very hub of the smoke and profit philosophy in practice, yet it contains some of the nation's most appalling slums. This is the area in which live the homeless, the lonely and the needy. This is the area which requires dramatic improvements in the standard of education facilities to bring them into line with even moderately acceptable levels. This is the area which desperately needs locally-based, co-ordinated social services such as legal aid, emergency housing, community aid and professional counselling services. This is an area which requires urgent support for local government action to improve the social amenities such as libraries and childcare centres. This is an area where special attention needs to be offered to minority groups - Aborigines, migrants and students. 
But, at the same time, it is the site of one of Australia's most exclusive clubs, The Melbourne Club. But one cannot get in if one's religion, race, or social position is not up to scratch. The area contains some of Australia's most outstanding private schools - the rookeries of a series of conservative Prime Ministers. Yet it also features schools where children are taught in century-old firetraps, where 800 children are forced to play in a quarter acre of asphalted playground space and where children are forced to use school toilets which were condemned in 1928. 
It is the setting for Australia's biggest sporting stadium, the Melbourne Cricket Ground. But it could be filled twice over with the number of people living below the poverty line in the Melbourne metropolitan area. It is the evening playground for the people of the metropolis, the place where they spend their time and money. 
But old people die unattended in their grey garrets just half a mile away, lt is the place where the knights of the Melbourne City Council conspired on schemes to add to their personal fortunes from profits which the underground rail loop proposal will bring. 
It is the place where these reactionaries also decided, in conjunction with their allies in the Spring Street Liberal Government, to force the ratepayers of inner Melbourne to meet a bigger share of the cost. 
As a member of the new Australian Labor Government I am pleased to have the opportunity of cementing the first brick in the foundation of a social security structure which will put the welfare of the community on a rational, socially-just basis and, for the first time since the last Labor government, offer some hope to the working man and his family. 
Upon that foundation - this commitment to ensure the social security of all the people - we can build a new approach to the problems of the nation. 
This Bill deserves support for the principle included of payments based on 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
It deserves support for the $1.50 it gives to pensioners and the retrospectivity included in the payments. 
It deserves support for the recognition that there is no difference between being sick in the short term and the long term. 
And it deserves support for giving the younger worker the same benefts as the older worker. But for more than any of these specific reasons, it must be supported as a step towards a more democratic society, a more equal society and a more just society. 
It is time the balance was restored and that is what I understand by social security. That is why it is my duty and my pleasure to rise in support of legislation of this type. 
Finally, I wish to give warning to my Government that the election pledges which brought us to office must be implemented on a fair and balanced basis. 
It disturbs me that the political pull of outer suburban areas may prompt discrimination against electorates such as my own. 
All the social horrors that come with urban blight are clearly illustrated in inner city electorates such as my own. 
I give warning that I cannot and will not stand by and see my people refused their fair and proper share of the new deal. 
I commend the Bill to the House. 
My question is directed to the Postmaster-General. As a result of the timely action taken by the Minister for Immigration a service is now rendered to migrants who are experiencing difficulties of communication in matters of urgency. The arrangements made involve a 24-hour telephone service and I am informed that migrants generally are delighted with this facility. In the light of this action by the Minister for Immigration, will the PostmasterGeneral give consideration to having the telephone number of the service placed in the telephone directory with a similar status to emergency calls which are made by dialling 000 free of charge? 
I would like to say at the outset that I am very pleased that the professional obstructionists on the other side of the House have seen fit at least tacitly to support the Bill. One would have doubts from what has been said by the honourable member for Indi  (Mr Holten),  who is a member of the Australian Country Party, because whilst in fact members of the Country Party are paying lip service to the measure they are putting arguments against it. Their remarks will be judged by the people who do not believe that it is a pleasure to receive compensation. They receive compensation because they have been injured or find themselves in a desperate situation. 
It is certainly with some pleasure that I support the Bill. In doing so I applaud the action of the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  in introducing this legislation. It must be for him, as for me, a proud and satisfying moment when such legislation is introduced into the Parliament. There are in my view 3 great steps taken by this Bill. The first of these is the new definition of disease, the second is the quantum of damages now provided in cases of accident or injury, and the third is the proposal, long overdue, for the introduction of a safety code. The Bill must be seen as another step forward in the implementation of the Australian Labor Party's comprehensive social security program based on the philosophy that society has an obligation to provide adequately for citizens who for any reason cannot take care of themselves or those dependent on them. It is also necessary that any social security payments should be tied to average weekly earnings, including increments, to ensure that the persons receiving benefits will receive automatic increases as productivity increases, as other factors increase general prosperity, or as inflation occurs. 
The purpose of the Bill, as I have indicated, is to make a number of important amendments to the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Act 1971-1972. These involve a change in the conditions relating to eligibility for compensation in disease cases and some significant changes in the rates and amounts payable under the Act. Amendments are made to the definitions of injury and disease, and section 29 of the Act is repealed, thus allowing a disease or the aggravation, acceleration or recurrence of a disease to be treated on the same basis as an injury. Eligibility will be established if the disease or aggravation, etc., arises out of or in the course of employment and, as with an injury, a temporal connection with the employment will be sufficient. 
In my experience the use of legal definition of accident, injury or disease has been such that the workers have not received their proper rights. I instance the action of the Victorian Government in 1964 when on the one hand it increased the quantum of damages and on the other severely restricted the areas in which those damages could be granted, the net result being that employers who are represented by our friends in the Opposition, paid less in compensation payments than before. This was a step heralded by the Bolte Government as an advance in social legislation. An example of the effect of the amendments can be shown by reference to the Ockenden case, in which the High Court of Australia said: 
A worker does not suffer personal injury by accident arising in the course of his employment where he suffers at his place of employment a sudden and distinct physiological change as the product of the inevitable development of a progressive disease from which he is suffering and where such change can in no way be attributable to or associated with some incident of his employment. 
I am pleased that this legislation will remove that terrible impost on a worker trying to establish his rights to workers compensation. I shall outline the main changes in the rates and amounts of compensation payable under the Act. Compensation for total incapacity will be increased to the level of the employee's average weekly earnings, including increments, and will continue at this level during the entire period of his incapacity. Compensation for partial incapacity will be a weekly amount equal to the difference between the employee's average weekly earnings in his pre-injury employment and the weekly amount he is earning after the injury, without any limit on the amount so payable. The Commonwealth will be obliged to provide suitable employment to a partially incapacitated employee or continue weekly payments on the basis of total incapacity; but the payments may be suspended if the employee unreasonably refuses or fails to accept or satisfactorily undertake suitable employment when it is provided. The lump sum compensation for death is replaced by weekly payments ranging up to the full average weekly earnings of the deceased employee. 
The lump sums payable for specified losses are to be related to the national average weekly earnings, and thus will be varied automatically on a quarterly basis. On current figures this will give a maximum of $26,026 compared with $14,500 provided in the Act. The percentages relating to the various losses have been increased and additional losses have been provided for, namely, loss of binocular vision, loss of the procreative function, bodily disfigurement and the loss of part of the body or of a faculty not elsewhere provided for in the section relating to certain losses. Also these lump sum payments will no longer terminate entitlement to continuance of weekly incapacity payments. An employee who is also receiving a superannuation or Defence Forces Retirement Benefits pension will be given the right to request a lump sum payment in redemption of the liability for weekly payments even though he is totally incapacitated. 
An employee whose total incapacity for work would be permanent but for vocational training will not have his weekly compensation reduced because of any earnings he receives during or as a result of the training. The law in Australia - this is terribly important - has, for at least 50 years, provided 2 ways of compensating a worker who is injured as a result of circumstances connected with his employment. At common law the injured worker has a right to sue for damages if his injury can be found to have occurred as a result of the fault  -  I ask honourable members to note that word - of his employer or fellow employee. Where no fault exists, workers have been able to receive limited benefits by making claims under workers compensation statutes. There has always been a basic difference in philosophy between the benefits obtainable under workers compensation Acts and those obtainable as a result of actions for damages. In actions for damages where fault has been established the law has attempted to put the injured worker in the same monetary situation as he would have been in had his injury not occurred by providing compensation for out of pocket expenses, past and future pain, suffering, loss of enjoyment of life and future economic loss, including potential loss of income resulting from the loss of opportunity for advancement in employment. 
On the other hand, workers compensation Act benefits have merely attempted to give the injured worker something towards the solution of his financial problems. They have never attempted to provide a complete economic solution. The degree of assistance has tended to vary between Commonwealth Acts and State Acts, but more often than not the benefits have been only a marginal improvement on benefits obtainable under social service legislation. The increased benefits provided in the Bill will ensure' that the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Act is the most generous workers compensation legislation in both scope and benefit ever enacted in Australia. The provisions in the Bill, which compensate for incapacity or disability due to a disease temporarily connected with the employment, provide average weekly income during incapacity, greatly increase lump sum benefits for disability and continue weekly payments in addition to lump sum benefits, will bring the Act closer to: the benefits philosophy of common law actions for damages than any other workers compensation legislation has ever approached. 
I believe that the basic principle of all compensation legislation benefits should be to totally compensate not merely to partially compensate. 
Compensation legislation should ensure that the injured employee is placed in the same economic situation as he would have been in had the injury not occurred. This is not a new proposition. It is a situation which has always been recognised by the common law in Australia where fault has been the cause of the injury. But the overriding concern of governments should be the interest and welfare of the disabled worker or employee, not the establishment of fault in the causation of the injury which has caused disability. This situation is now increasingly recognised by enlightened governments in the Western world and is evidenced by workers compensation legislation and more recently by no fault compensation schemes, an example of which is the scheme recently introduced by the Government in legislation in New Zealand. 
These Acts and schemes are imperfect examples of the desire of governments to totally compensate injured persons whether they be injured in connection with their work or otherwise and whether or not their injuries occurred as a result of fault. The Commonwealth Employees Compensation Act when amended will still fall short of the benefits that are obtainable in actions for damages. It will still fall short of providing a total solution to the financial problems of injured workers. For example, the lump sum payments will still fall below the amounts obtainable in actions for damages before juries. In the case of total or partial incapacity no allowance is made in this Bill or in the existing Act for the fact that the injured employee has more often than not been deprived of promotional opportunity and economic advancement. The weekly payments on death provided in the Bill are not as valuable as the lump sum obtainable in actions for damages by widows, particularly since these payments terminate upon the widow's remarrying. 
I now turn to the Minister's welcome announcement of proposals for a safety code, a proposal that has been for a long time a plank of the federal platform of the Labor Party. It is the prevention of accidents and disease that is the most important factor to workers. Such action is very long overdue. Previous governments have only provided lip service to International Labour Organisation conventions on the very important matter of safety. I would like to point out to the Minister that a number of ILO Conventions dealing specially with safety codes have not at this point in time been ratified by Australia. This is a dishonest approach. We cannot sit at meetings in which these conventions are made and then come back to this country and simply do nothing at all about them. Some of these conventions include: Convention No. 32 Protection Against Accidents (Dockers) (Revised) 1932; Convention No. 62 Safety Provisions (Building) 1937 and, in particular, Convention No. 119 Guarding of Machinery, 1963. In my view it is not good enough to say that under Commonwealth jurisdiction the Government considers that there are no manufacturers of machinery in the Australian Capital Territory or the Northern Territory and that there are major difficulties in ratification in the States. One of the promises of this Government has been that in its Territories it will set up model legislation as an example to the States. Even if there are constitutional difficulties in persuading the States to ratify this Convention, 1 would hope that in the near future the Commonwealth Territories will have legislation which does conform to the Convention and the Minister and the Government should take steps to see that ils contracts are directed towards the companies which abide by the provisions of the Conventions. I also suggest that the relevant ILO Convention dealing with safety be referred to the representative committee envisaged by the Minister in his second reading speech. This committee would play a major part in not allowing this decision to establish a safety code to become empty pious words. It must become a reality in the interests of people who suffer as a result of accidents and who look to this legislation as a means of obtaining justice in this area. 
Briefly I refer now to the Seamen's Compensation Act 1911-1972. I am sure that this is a mere oversight by the Minister but I draw his attention to the quantum of damages provided in the Act. As the Minister will be aware, the Act provides for the payment of an amount of $14,500 in respect of the various more serious injuries. This amount and the percentage of that amount which is paid for the other injuries are set out in the Third Schedule to the Seamen's Compensation Act. The percentages therein in some cases fall well below those in the table on page 8 of the Bill we are now considering. 
There are other defects in the seamen's legislation. For instance, there is no provision as to compensation for loss of the procreative function - this is very important to the seamen - or for the suffering of facial injuries or the loss of binocular vision. I realise that the Minister has a great number of issues before him but I take this opportunity to urge him at the earliest possible moment to bring the legislation relating to seamen into line with this Bill now before us. I also look forward to the day when the Minister can announce that ILO Convention No. 55 of 1936 which deals with the shipowner's liability in respect of sick and injured seamen has been ratified by Australia. However, I have indicated that I believe firmly that the amendments proposed by this Bill must be supported for the reasons I have already stated. As I have said, this is undoubtedly the most beneficial piece of workers compensation legislation ever passed in Australia. It will substantially improve the situation of disabled or incapacitated Commonwealth employees entitled to receive its benefits. In supporting the Bill, however, I ask all honourable members to recognise that the increased benefits provided by the Bill are still only a further step towards the ultimate goal of compensation legislation designed to compensate injured employees fully. The hypocrisy of the honourable member for Indi  (Mr Holten)  who asked where the money is coming from- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! I must point out to the honourable member and the word 'hypocrisy' is unparliamentary and I ask him to withdraw it. 
I will withdraw it and leave it to other people to judge for themselves. The way in which the honourable member presented his case and the futility of his argument rest on that basis. He asked where the money is coming from to provide such benefits to Commonwealth employees. There was no trouble in financing the war in Vietnam where we sent our young people to fight and die in the jungles of that country. So I do not see any difficulty in finding the necessary funds to finance this piece of legislation. Regardless of fault, the people who rely on this legislation will receive benefits which will place them in the same position financially and economically as they would have been in had their injuries not occurred. I commend the Bill to the House. 
The matter which I desire to draw to the attention of the House concerns the people of Victoria and the way in which they are being blatantly deceived by the Liberal Government in that State which is attempting to lead the people to believe that that Government is in no way associated with its counterparts who sit on the Opposition side of this House. However, the people in Victoria will realise that they belong to the same Party and are equally responsible for the chaotic conditions that prevailed prior to the December election that led to the defeat of the Liberal-Country Party coalition and which will, I hope, lead to the removal of the Liberal Government in the forthcoming State election. The Hamer deception goes further than that. The Liberals have let things slide over a number of years. They have failed to take the initiative to introduce policies. Now in great haste they are plundering Labor Party policies in an endeavour to pull the wool over the eyes of the Victorian electors. 
I instance the concrete monstrosities known as freeways that tear the heart out of the inner suburbs of Melbourne. They were part of the great Liberal plan that proceeded despite the desperate opposition of the Labor Party, to leave in their wake destruction of the environment, incalculable social disruption by the bulldozing of houses and the uprooting of people in many cases after a lifetime in the locality. While sabotaging the quality of urban life, the State Government has led the motorists in Victoria up the most expensive garden path in the history of the Slate. After refusing to listen to the Labor Party for a number of very expensive years, on the eve of the election the Hamer Government slashed $700m off the freeway program simply because the freeways were planned to run through Liberal seats and the inhabitants were up in arms about it. The Hamer Government realises that cars simply do not vote. 
Whilst Victoria is spared the freeways, the Liberal Government must stand condemned for the fact that it has not given the Victorian people any alternative. It has failed to do anything at all about upgrading public transport. In 18 years the Liberal Government in Victoria has performed the magnificent feat of laying a total of 10 miles of new railway track. The railway rolling stock belongs to the 19th century, and if it was not in such bad shape I am sure the antique dealers would be interested in buying it. The only aspect of public transport that could be called up to date is the fares. 1 am sure the Victorian people would agree with me that they are well ahead of their time. The Government is trying to pretend that better transport facilities are just around the corner. A recent example I can recall is the production of a bright, shiny, glittering tram, the only one that has been produced at this stage of the game. A public relations exercise broke down when the tram itself broke down. 
In the area of high rise housing the Victorian Government has been forced to adopt the policy of the Labor Party, which is to oppose the construction of huge concrete jungles which leads to the destruction to the fabric of people's life, the creation of enormous social problems and a breeding ground for child delinquency. The Housing Commission's plans for high rise development were halted as late as 26th March this year obviously to try once again to fool the people of Victoria. Westernport is certainly another example that can be pointed to of the Liberal Party in Victoria being forced to adopt the policies of the Victorian Labor Party.  Sir Henry  Bolte proclaimed the Westernport project as the Victorian Ruhr, while the Labor Party strenuously opposed the industrial development of that area. The project was once again belatedly stopped by the Hamer Government only after enormous pressure from the Labor 
Party and people within and around the area who felt that the price of industrial development was the destruction of one of our national assets. As the elections have come closer, so the plundering of Labor Party's policy has been speeded up. We can refer to a few of them. 
I think that is very true. An education teacher housing program, for instance, was part of the Labor Party's policy in 1967 and was adopted by the Liberals in 1971. A fourth university outside the metropolitan area was Labor Party's policy in 1967. In November 1970 the Government established a committee to look at the fourth university. Autonomy for teachers colleges was Labor Party's policy in 1970. In 1972 it was adopted by the Liberals. The appointment of an ombudsman was the Labor Party's policy in 1967. A Bill was introduced in the House at that time to give effect to this policy and has been introduced every session since but it has been opposed by the Liberal Government. But in March of this year, lo and behold, the Liberal Government adopted that policy. The vote for 18-year-olds for many years was Labor's policy. In the closing hours of the parliamentary session prior to the forthcoming State elections great haste has been made by the Hamer Administration to adopt the proposition. But in doing so it has not given sufficient time to have all the 18-year-olds registered. One month before the rolls were due to close the decision was taken by the Hamer Government. 
I would think so. It was part of the Labor Party's platform to have a helicopter emergency service to ferry sick people over long distances. This was adopted very recently, as late as April, by the Hamer Government. On 5th April  Mr Holding  announced the pegging of country natural gas prices to the city level as part of the Labor Party's program.  Mr Hamer  reannounced it on 13th April. I could go on for some considerable time referring to such matters as the setting up of a series of ministries to adopt the progressive policies set out in the various areas of the Labor Party's program. What we see is that the Hamer Government follows suit. I am quite confident that the people in Victoria will not be fooled by this deception. 
The Liberal Party has had its head in the sands of time in Victoria over a number of years, and those sands of time are quickly running out for it. As I have said, the Victorian people will not be deceived. They will not fall for the deception of the Hamer Government.  Mr Hamer  will suffer the same fate when he faces the people on 19th May this year as his Federal counterparts did on 2nd December. 
I  support the clause in particular and the Bill in general. We have heard today from honourable members opposite a great story which, when closely examined, can be reduced to the category of calamity howling by individuals who have had little or no experience in the field of industrial relations. Alternatively, they are determined to continue their historic role of rushing to the defence of the people they represent in this Parliament. [ refer to the employers or that section of the community which alone controls in this country the forces of production. The debate on the clause we  are discussing has been taken out of perspective. A conciliator has an important role. Any honourable member who has had experience in honestly and sincerely trying to resolve an industrial dispute appreciates that in so doing one looks for people who will explore the conciliatory prospects to their logical conclusion. A number of examples in the recent past have been shown to reinforce my argument. The provisions of the Act show that we seem to be running away from this position. In the Act 2 fundamental areas are dealt with. Ons is conciliation and the other, as the last resort, is arbitration. We ran into difficulties through the 1960s when the employers' organisations were reinforced by the interference by the previous government which wanted to see the Conciliation and Arbitration Act used as a regulator of the economy rather than for the purpose for which is was set up, namely, to resolve industrial disputes. Influence was brought to bear on employers' organisations not to take to its logical conclusion the course which was available to them within the conciliatory arm of the Act. Under section 28 of the Act action can be taken at the conciliatory level. 
In practice people used to give lip-service to section 28 of the Act. People would appear to negotiate under that section of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act and talk out time, but no genuine effort was made to negotiate. Therefore the process lapsed at that point. What used to happen subsequently was that employers would use that procedure as a fishing expedition to amass sufficient evidence to take unions before the industrial court. No genuine attempt whatsoever was made to conciliate. 
What is recognised by this clause, and what the previous Government did not realise, is that experts in resolving industrial disputes are readily available. Judge Aird and Judge Robinson were important appointments to the Bench. They were respected by the trade union movement and had tremendous capacity to resolve industrial disputes. As my friend the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Riordan)  properly pointed out, they acted in a proper and responsible way to resolve disputes despite the fact that they were probably operating illegally. The amendments made by the previous Government precluded them from operating in an effective way. This clause gives the scope and the ambit for both parties to a dispute to agree to the whole concept of taking advantage of the skill of an individual who has a knowledge of the beginning of a dispute and of using that knowledge right to the end of the dispute, going through the whole ambit of the Act. In the first instance a conciliator has preliminary handling of the dispute and listens to the parties when all tempers are flared and when people tend to take fixed positions. The very fact that the conciliator has had experience in that field is acknowledged by those who have had any experience at all in industrial disputation. The parties then can see the possibility of properly sitting down, under the concept of this Act, without a bludgeon hanging over their heads, and of trying to resolve their differences in a proper and amicable fashion. After having gone through the preliminaries at the conciliation stage, if there is no possibility of a solution at that stage then under the concept of this proposition that authority cannot arbitrate if one party rejects the proposal that they should have him as arbitrator. What is fairer than that? 
However, as I pointed out previously, the most important factor is that an individual who is to make the final decision should clearly understand the whole concept of the particular dispute. I have been involved in disputes of this nature. I refer to a classic example heard before Judge Aird, namely the Ericsson dispute. This case involved a very bitter argument and a wrong concept about compulsory unionism. It was taken completely out of perspective. If a conciliator who did not understand just precisely what the case was all about had handled that case in the first instance he could have made a devil of a mess of it. But Judge Aird, who did a magnificent job in the resolving of that dispute, had the flexibility to take the case from the beginning to the end. The only reason that that action could succeed was that the parties agreed that that process should be adopted. That is a practical example. 
If anybody knows anything about the recent history of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission he would quickly realise that the case I mentioned involved a very difficult dispute. From that case came an area of agreement between the 2 parties which Judge Aird handled in a very fine way. He was able to do that only because he did a number of things. He took the case through the whole process of conciliation. He examined what was, in fact, the real difficulty between the 2 parties, and that was a series of about 22 complaints of all the unions against the company involved. Judge Aird then set the machinery in motion to examine the complaints. He took off the robes of a Judge and got down to the basis of talking across the table in the way in which that kind of dispute should be handled. He examined each area of the dispute in turn. He came up with a format that we said we would try, and Ky it we did. In trying that format we resolved the dispute. 
Harking back to what this clause really means, we have taken away the ridiculous concept under which an individual starts to hear the original aspects of a dispute and, after reaching the point where he knows something about it, is suddenly told that he docs not have the jurisdiction to handle it, and that he has to hand the matter over to somebody else for arbitration. That process is ridiculous and shows the ineptitude and lack of experience of the people who framed the amendments which provided for this course to bc adopted. The proposal now before us is constructive, objective and practical and it can work. Therefore, I commend this clause as it is to the Committee. 
 Once again we have been entertained by an act that would win an academy award. If it were not such a serious matter we could claim that the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  is the greatest performer on the other side of the chamber. I think that this matter is far too serious for us to be deferred from considering its real relevance and importance, and the genuine concept that this clause implies in coming to grips with real industrial problems. Insofar as the shop steward is concerned, we have to realise that this individual is democratically elected. Union rules provide for this. The relevant Act provides a procedure by which the people who represent the members of the union are elected in a proper way. Under the rules the person who is elected is not a free agent. He does not act off his own bat. He has to subscribe and give effect to the view and the will of the majority of the people he represents. This matter ought to be brought back to that concept. 
This clause is not designed to protect people about whom the honourable member for Moreton tells us such heart rending stories, such as the poor employer who, having sacked an individual because he is a shop steward of an organisation, should not have the onus of proof put on him to satisfy a tribunal as to why he sacked the steward. The impression that has been given in this chamber is that it is par for the course to hear the honourable member for Moreton and other honourable members on that side of the chamber speak about- communists under tram tickets and communists under the bed. I wonder how they sleep at night. It is an insult to those people who are properly elected to those positions to be accused of being instruments of anybody. If they are instruments of anybody they are instruments of the people whom they represent. They are the people who play an integral part in the whole operation of industrial relations. We are trying to achieve an optimum level in industrial relations which will act in the best interests of the employer, the employee and the community in general. 
Reference was made by the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon),  who is an ex-Prime Minister, to the Hood award and the fact that there was collusion between parties - the concept that there were devious activities by individuals. He actually is accusing people who represent employers and employees, people who are coming to grips with a problem and reaching a solution, of being criminals. These are people who are trying to bring about an agreement that is going to act to the detriment of the country in general and to industries in particular. The shop stewards and union officers have an integral part to play. 
Mention also was made of the fact that the shop stewards movement took action in the Latrobe Valley that was not in conformity with the rules of their organisation and which in fact brought into question the authority of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. Let us have a look at that question. It was the action, the activity and the policies of the previous Government that brought about a state of affairs which existed in the Latrobe Valley in which the job expectancy of people in that area was at rock bottom. People who had spent their whole lives in that area had to pull up stakes and shift out because there were no jobs available. All workers in the area, including shop stewards, were driven to distraction. The situation in the Latrobe Valley did not arise because of the actions of irresponsible shop stewards. The responsibility can rest squarely on the shoulders of the previous Government. The situation which fermented the problems in the Latrobe Valley was the responsibility of the Liberal-Country Party coalition Government. 
As my friend has pointed out, the Victorian Government was part and parcel of the activities and it is equally responsible. As I indicated the other day, the Hamer administration in Victoria has gone to great lengths to dissociate itself from the sort of things which brought the previous Federal Liberal Government down and which I believe will bring the State Liberal Government down on 19th May. 
The honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  raised the case in which union members might attend a meeting addressed by the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron).  If they were brought out to listen to the Minister speaking in defence of individuals like the honourable member for Moreton, it would be legitimate for people to defend their own rights in considering what they had to consider in terms of legitimate union business. If an employer sacked a shop steward for convening a meeting such as that I believe that in conformity with clause 6 the employer ought to be charged with the responsibility of showing cause why he dismissed that official. 
The honourable member always knows where he stands, or sits or gabbles or does whatever he likes. But all he has done this evening has been to challenge a legitimate clause that in fact tidies up the discrimination that has existed for quite some time under previous governments. These are governments that at the drop of a hat have discriminated against union representatives such as shop stewards when they have legitimately gone about their business. Unions are responsible bodies of people and if people step out of line and do not act in accordance with the rules of unions, the unions will certainly deal with them. 
The rules of organisations registered by the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration 
Commission have to comply with certain regulations. This provision is not being changed. What is in fact happening here is that legitimate protection is being given for properly and duly elected officers of unions. This is all that the clause provides for. It does not protect individuals who step out of the bounds of the rules of unions which were set out when the union concerned was first formed. Yet, this is what is implied by the people who oppose the clause. If shop stewards who deserve the protection of the Act are sacked, I believe that the provisions contained in clause 6 of the Bill ought legitimately and correctly to be used. All of the argument that we have heard against this clause has been put forward in an endeavour to hinder the role of the shop steward, a man who performs a very important role in the involved system of industrial relations. I think that honourable members opposite who have spoken in the debate on this clause obviously have not talked to any of the employer organisations. If they had they would have seen one section of the industrial complex that is relevant and important. In the eyes of responsible employers the shop steward plays a most important role in industrial relations at the grass roots level. I commend the clause and I do not think it ought to be altered. I think that the hysterical outbursts from members of the Opposition have meant nothing. I think that this clause contains a vital principle and ought to be supported. 
Is the Minister for Health aware that drug problems are escalating rapidly in large urban centres, that heroin peddling is taking place on an increased scale in Sydney and Melbourne and has led to the deaths of some young people? Is the Government Contemplating a new approach to the question, in conjunction with the States or otherwise? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Housing. Having regard to the confusion that now exists in Victoria regarding the State Government's attitude to the proposed housing agreement, can the Minister inform the House whether he has any information regarding any proposed rent increases for housing commission homes in the near future - that is if the Victorian State Government has a future after Saturday next? 
I address my question to the Minister for Immigration. A number of migrants in my electorate have contacted me indicating that they believe that if the migrant task force is permitted to operate in a positive way without simply becoming a rubber stamp for the Department of Immigration it will offer a great service to migrants in general. I have been told that a memorandum has been issued in the Department to the effect that information is not to be released to the task force. Will the Minister assure the House that the memo w.~s circulated without his authority and that the task force will have any information made available to it to enable it to complete the work allocated to it? 
I rise to join previous speakers in expressing deep regret at the passing of a very fine Australian. Arthur Calwell was a man who believed that the sort of Australia to which we should aspire should be a prosperous Australia based on principles of justice and equality- a society in which people are not divided by social barriers or by extremes of wealth and poverty.  His  efforts and plans were always directed to that end.  His  contribution to the Federal Parliament of this country is well recorded and his place in history is firmly established by his wonderful career as the Federal member for Melbourne- the electorate I now have the honour of representing, having succeeded him on his retirement prior to the election of 2 December. In many respects my entry into politics was a case of history repeating itself. Arthur outlined two things in the preface of his book 'Labor's Role in Modern Society'. He related the basis of his philosophy and his first political memory- a memory that has a marked resemblance to my own. Amongst other things he said: 
To me, and all my comrades in the Australian Labor Party, Ben Chifley 's concept of the 'light on the hill' is not just a figure of speech. It is a beacon-light of idealism for all who believe that any system of society which is not founded on political democracy, social democracy and economic democracy-any system which is not characterised in all its aspects by equalityis a bad one. Neither capitalism nor communism can provide a society which will respect and safeguard the dignity of all men and women and their deepest needs as human beings, a society which will protect the interests of all. 
My faith in the Labor Party as the sole means of achieving such a society is as firm today as it was in the days of my trusting, impressionable youth. I took an interest in politice from my earliest years, and, for me, politics meant Labor politics. My very first political memory is that of being taken by my mother, at the age of eight, to hear that great Labor man,  Dr William  Maloney, speaking in the by-election campaign in which he defeated  Sir Malcolm  McEacharn for the seat of Melbourne in the House of Representatives. Of course, little did I realise then that thirty-six years later I would have the honour of succeeding  Dr Maloney  as member for the electorate of Melbourne. 
He said 2 things. He outlined a philosophy which he followed throughout the rest of his career. He also outlined his first political memory. 
Mine was a similar experience, for at very much around the same age as Arthur was at that time, I was taken by my father to hear Arthur Calwell speaking at Labor Day celebrations and various ALP conferences, espousing the philosophy that he maintained consistently to the end. Little did I know that some 35 years later I would succeed him as the fourth member for Melbourne. It was indeed a very proud moment for me in following such a man. Arthur Calwell 's undying loyalty to the Labor movement stamped him as a true son of working people, a person who never forgot whence he came. He paid particular attention to the needs of people who found themselves on the lowest spokes of fortune's wheel. He will ever be remembered for his contribution to society. 
Arthur Augustus Calwell was in many respects a complex person, a man possessed of a medley of emotions. At one moment he was a hard and ruthless fighter for the principles he believed in. At the next moment he was a kindly idealist moving heaven and earth to assist an individual in trouble. He was an intellectual yet was able to stir large gatherings of people into action upon issues of principle by an eloquent turn of phrase but in language that ordinary people understood. Arthur, or 'Ginger' as he was affectionately known to his friends in the Labor movement, was steeped and soaked in Labor politics from 1916 when as a youth of 18 years he joined the Australian Labor Party to which he remained completely loyal and which he continued to love very much. In 1917 he was elected to the Victorian Branch Conference of the Labor Party as a delegate and attended almost every conference from that time onwards. His early training was assisted by involvement in great debates on the Yarra bank in Melbourne, a tremendous training ground which helped to develop an oratory delivered in the platitudes that the public loved to hear. 
As the Prime Minister has outlined, Arthur Calwell was born in the electorate for which he worked for a great part of his life. He was born in 1896 in Stanley Street, West Melbourne, the son of a policeman and a Victorian born Irishwoman. He started school at St Mary's, West Melbourne, and won a scholarship that enabled him to attend Christian Brothers College in North Melbourne. He started work with the Victorian Department of Agriculture, where he stayed for about 10 years, first as a junior clerk earning the magnificent salary of Five pounds a month. From 1923 to 1940 he worked for the Victorian Treasury. He was elected to the Victorian Central Executive of the Australian Labor Party in 1 926 and was subsequently elected to the Melbourne City Council as the last alderman in that city in 1939. Arthur then became involved in the administration of football and cricket and was a trustee of the Melbourne Cricket Ground from 1931 onwards. As has been indicated, he was elected to the Federal Parliament in 1940 and became Minister for Information under Prime Minister John Curtin. 
In 1943 Arthur Calwell was promoted to the position of Minister for Immigration. In that post he displayed the great talents he possessed.  His  work as the architect of the immigration policy at that time was of incalculable benefit to Australia. He was a great family man, as the Prime Minister has said. The members of his family were very attached to each other and worked together. During 1947 he and his wife began a hurricane tour of Europe and the United States of America to find sufficient shipping, which was quite scarce at that time, to bring new settlers to Australia. They visited 23 countries in 13 weeks and were successful in achieving what they set out to do. This was typical of Arthur Calwell 's determination and of the co-operation of his family. He always had an ambition to lead the Party and nobody deserved more than Arthur the honour bestowed on him by his colleagues when he was elected Leader of the Parliamentary Labor Party in March 1960. He believed that the Party must always maintain its industrial base.  His  first act as Leader was to attend the same afternoon as his election to that position a picnic of Canberra . trade unionists. As Leader he brought the Party closer to electoral victory in 1961 than it had been since 1946. Victory was so near and yet so far. He failed by only one electorate to achieve his ambition. 
Arthur Augustus Calwell, in my view, would have made a very fine Prime Minister and more is the pity that he did not get the opportunity to prove it. Nevertheless, Arthur's contribution over many years on the issues of Vietnam and conscription, among others, had assisted to lay the base for Labor's victory in December of last year. 
Finally, he will be remembered for his exploits over many years, for his contribution to this Parliament and particularly his contribution to the electorate of Melbourne. He will be remembered for all that great work and by all the friends that he made. I agree with those who said that Arthur Calwell would choose that his epitaph should include the words he used to the 1955 conference of the Labor Party, the conference in which he played a major role in ridding the Party he loved so dearly of those who desired and wished to undermine and to destroy it. He said at that time, with a great deal of emotion, that he still believed in 2 working class slogans. Firstly he said that unity of labour is the hope of the world. As well he said: 'Workers of the world unite- you have a world to gain and only your chains to lose. ' 
I am sure that everybody in this Parliament will agree with me that using the terms he often used himself, Arthur Calwell fought the good fight, he did not spare himself in struggling for the principles he believed in and his memory will be indelibly imprinted on the hearts of all those who had the pleasure of knowing and working with him. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Immigration. Is it a fact that the Minister's migrant task forces in Victoria, New South Wales and Queensland have been unanimous in criticising migrant education? What is the position in relation to workshop classes which in some countries are compulsory for employers to institute? Does he believe that they are satisfactory in Australia at the present time? In other words, does he believe that employers' participation in this vital part of our immigration program is being carried out? 
At the outset I congratulate the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  for the way he presented the Budget. It was a very fine Budget and it was in sharp contrast to the irresponsible reply we heard from the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Sneddon)  this evening. Much has been said by the calamity howlers on the other side of the House about inflation being primarily due to excessive wage increases. This is simply not an established economic fact. One of the foremost economists of the Western World, Professor Harry Johnson, a professor of economics at both the London School of Economics and the University of Chicago, has strongly challenged the concept of wage-push inflation. In a paper published in the 'International Currency Review' of August 1971 he makes the point that inflation is a world problem, that the increase in the rate of world inflation in the second half of the 1960s is primarily the responsibility of the United States, which financed the Vietnam war by inflation rather than taxation, and that due to the United States' predominant position in the world economy its inflation was transported to the rest of the world.  His  thesis is summed up in the following quotation from page 7 of his paper: 
The world inflation then can be attributed largely to a change towards inflationary behaviour on the part of the United States. The details of events in other countries can be used to tell a tale of domestic causation of inflation and in particular to blame inflation on the irresponsibility of the trade unions - 
I have heard that before -  but I would instead regard them merely as details in the process of transmission of world inflation, sparked by the United Stales, to the individual countries concerned. 
Thus it can be seen that the wage-push notion of inflation is not an unchallengeable economic verity. The Johnson theory of inflation can be shown to" apply directly to Australia and was so shown in the union's submission during the national wage case of 1972. (Quorum formed). Any responsible government concerned to prevent inflation must make a real and genuine attempt to limit the freedom of entrepreneurs to fix prices as they please, to prevent land prices being forced up by land speculators and to take positive steps to stop the spiralling cost of housing - and that is exactly what this Government intends to do. Once again these aims are in sharp contrast to the appalling record of the previous Government. The following examination of inflation of property prices in the central business districts of Melbourne will illustrate clearly what some of the real causes of inflation are and who has been responsible, and the grave imbalance in the use of resources which have been produced as a byproduct. In 1971 it was announced that the land values in the central business district had increased by 800 per cent in 3 years. Blocks were selling at $100 a square foot. In the previous. 12 months 26 permits had been issued for multi-storey office and shop complexes. In June 1973 the Melbourne City Council released a report which revealed that land prices throughout the city had doubled since 1968. The report said: 
The great economic expansion in the city has forced out activities that are not capable of meeting rising land values and rents. 
Earlier in the year Melbourne's strategy plan consultants, the American firm of Interplan, had issued a draft report which included figures forecasting a $33m over-supply of office space by 1975. In other words, what is happening in Melbourne at the present time is not a straightforward question of supply and demand. Instead we are dealing with a complex series of speculative investments between large corporations. These activities have been encouraged by the Melbourne City Council - the friends of honourable members opposite - because the result of each new building is more revenue for the Council which charges rates of between $2 and $7 a square foot for each new building. So a building such as the 26 storey Australian Mutual Provident Society block pays rates to the Council of approximately 3165,000 a year, whereas the old buildings formerly on this site returned only one-ninth of this amount. Who can afford these soaring prices? 
An acre of land abutting the city square was up for sale in December 1972 and was expected to fetch between S8m and $12m, that is, between $175 and $250 a square foot. Among the companies which were expected to bid were a big British development company, the Lend Lease Corporation Ltd, Mainline Construction (Vic.) Pty Ltd, the Australian Mutual Provident Society, T &amp; G Mutual Life Society and the Oominion Insurance Co. Pty Ltd. Even if the Melbourne City Council wanted to buy the land and convert it to open space or to some other use of a more human scale which would benefit the majority of city users, it could not afford to do so. As one journalist observed: 'To walk along Collins Street today is to say goodbye to an old friend'. Estate agents proudly relate the average 40 per cent increase in Collins Street land values over the past two or three years. A real estate report of June 1972 said that the underground loop has lifted city values, including Collins Street, by about 300 per cent. 
The major property holders in Collins Street are the life insurance companies. They have been involved in many of the recent transactions, together with the banks. The Melbourne City Council's building surveyors department reports that there are 6 projects currently under construction. Of these the smallest building will be 17 floors while the tallest will be two 55 storey towers. The council department reports also that it has been informed verbally of another dozen proposed buildings for the street. To get some perspective of what is happening I shall give a brief run down of the bigger projects so that honourable members will have some idea of what is shaping the new city. 
Between Spring Street and Exhibition Street on the southern side of Collins Street most of the block is being taken up by the $87m Collins Place project which is based around two 600 feet towers for the Australian and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd and the AMP Society. Almost all the rest of the block, with the exception of a 22 floor building for professional suites and residential accommodation, is understood to have been bought by another life company which plans eventually to redevelop the whole area. Between Exhibition and Russell Streets on the southern side of Collins Street, Conzinc Riotinto of Australia is expected to erect a 650 feet office complex in 1975. A second stage of the complex would include four 10 and 12 storey buildings. Sixty per cent of the rest of the block is being purchased by an English company and major redevelopment is expected there also. I could go on all the way up and down the streets but shall refer only to a couple more such projects. 
Between Queen and William Streets on the southern side of Collins Street, half the block to Market Street is expected to be gone by 1975. The rest of the block is taken up by National Mutual Life Association of Australasia Ltd. Between Queen and William Streets on the northern side of Collins Street there has already been much major redevelopment, mostly by insurance companies. Between King and Spencer Streets on the southern side a 23-storey office building is replacing the old Federal Hotel. There is regrettably little discussion in the community about this coming land of giants, but there have been some appropriate references to this fearful development that are worth noting. John Larkin in the 'Age' of 3 January remarked: 
How much pollution, how much down-draught, how much over-crowding, how much noise, how much waste of resources, how many shadows, how much anonymity, how much confrontation for citizens caught between walls and traffic, how much subjection of the office workers themselves? 
A previous warning came in 1972 from the architect John Andrews, a former professor of architecture at the Toronto University, who said that Melbourne's centre was becoming a city of buildings and not of people. Victoria's architect of the year, Kevin Borland, described it as an incredible indictment of our society that these buildings are costing $3,000 a square and are used only from 9 o'clock to 5 o'clock. Collins Street could become the city's space age dead heart. If it does it would be a fitting tribute to those who let it happen, a group of traders otherwise known as the city council. Because of its interest in the ratable values of these new buildings, the Melbourne City Council is a most unlikely opponent of the direction the city skyscape is taking. The Melbourne City Council, like honourable members opposite, operates in the interests of a small but wealthy section of the community in the inner business district centre of Melbourne, those profiteering from the large scale property ownership and speculation on land values. It is the members of the Civic Group in the Melbourne City Council, the counterpart of the Opposition in this Parliament, who are among the chief contributors to and beneficiaries of inflation in the central business district. The Melbourne City Council has done little to ensure that the city is developed in an egalitarian manner. The reason can be found partly in the fact - (Quorum formed). The Melbourne City Council, in following the policies that I have outlined, has had the same sort of gerrymandered situation that we have in the Victorian State Parliament. There are 6 wards in the central business district which elect 18 of the 33 councillors. So, it is impossible for Labor to gain a majority while 29 per cent of the voters elect half the councillors. Labor is further disadvantaged because the Council and its committees sit during the day and most prospective Labor candidates cannot get time off to attend. In the 3 months ended 31 March 1973 over $34m worth of office space was approved for construction in the inner suburban areas of Melbourne and most of this was in the central business district. I seek leave to incorporate a table in Hansard. 
I think it is appropriate that I should congratulate at this time the Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson)  on the great job he is doing in the housing area. He has laid the basis, at least, of a challenge to the State of Victoria to do something about the position of housing in Melbourne. Also I would like to congratulate the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  who has thrown down the challenge to the Opposition, which supports the fixing and freezing of prices. The builders in New South Wales have supported the proposition of the Minister and he is to be congratulated on his initiatives. 
The housing position in Victoria, in particular in the Melbourne area is acute. It has been pointed out that one firm has developed two-thirds of the land in the metropolitan area of Melbourne which has been reclaimed with public money. M. A. Jones in his book Housing and Poverty' maintains that there is at least a threefold subsidy involved. Firstly there is the subsidy caused by the use of compulsory acquisition powers and the dubious methods the Victorian Housing Commission uses for paying the 'market' price for compensation purposes. Secondly there is  the  subsidy that is the difference between the price private developers are prepared to pay for the land and the cost of acquisition. Thirdly, the finance for the units, built on cleared sites by private developers is supplied' by the Home Finance Trust, a Government organisation, at low rates of interest. Obviously there is an urgent need for the Prices Justification Tribunal to concern itself not solely with operators in large industrial companies with an annual turnover of $20m or more but also with large companies in the housing - industry such as A. V. Jennings industries (Aust) Ltd. One of the major com ponents in the Consumer Price Index which has been increasing rapidly in the past 12 months is housing costs. To reduce speculation * and profiteering by land developers and construction companies the Prices Justification Tribunal should inquire into existing retail prices, profit margins and actual development costs. It is possible that if this exercise had been carried out in the mid-1960s the retail prices set by the Prices Justification Tribunal for own-your-own flats in the inner suburban area would have been within the price range of lower income earners. I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard a table showing subsidies to private developers. 
-I desire to second the motion. I think that the debate has progressed to the extent where honourable members have expressed a view and that it would be completely irresponsible to leave the matter in such a situation that the Parliament was not able to come to a decision, one way or the other. So I agree with the mover of the motion and I think that it ought to be carried. 
I am opposed to the amendment. The question of adding the words 'which is lawful' and deleting the words 'in an industrial establishment or elsewhere' opens up the concept of attack that has been the whole philosophy of people like the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  who has moved the amendment, and others who have dabbled in the issue of industrial relations. The whole background of penalties within the concept of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act in fact is indicative of the attitude of people who have had little or nothing to do with, or who have not had any concept of industrial relations at all. They have developed this phobia about imposing penalties on people, imposing all areas of the law on industrial relations. We have seen this approach fail miserably. Because this Government did not want to hold up the passage of the Bill it has set aside for separate consideration the deletion of the penal provisions that are contained in the Conciliation and Arbitration Act at present. When one reflects on the performance of those provisions as an additive to endeavour to settle industrial disputes, one realises that it has been a complete and rank failure. Nobody from the other side of the House could argue against that. 
When one hears the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  talking about jackboots, by God that is the pot calling the kettle black.  His  attitude in moving this amendment is indicative of his general attitude. I hope we never see the day when he is Minister for Labour. God help us. He would be pushing so far apart those whom we are trying to encourage around the table to resolve industrial affairs that the settling of industrial disputes would not be the concept of the Act. Any resemblance between that concept and the principle of the Act would be purely coincidental. That is only the next stage. The wording may appear to be insignificant, but when we introduce the expression 'which is lawful' into legislation on industrial disputes any act that may be done by a shop steward or an organiser or a union official, is brought into consideration. 
No matter what he does the interpretation of what is lawful has to be applied in the context in which it is written in this amendment. It is a surreptitious way of tightening the imposition of penalties to be contained within the whole concept of the Act. So far as this issue is concerned individuals would not be protected. We would be tightening the areas in which individuals could be dealt with before the law. We think that the whole concept of penalties in this Act has failed. The whole concept of conciliation is maintained in all the amendments that have been put forward by this Government. We think it ought to be carried through as a principle. The passing of the proposed amendment would be a retrograde step and I believe that it ought to be defeated. 
Has the Minister for Immigration seen reports based on a factual answer which he gave to a question on notice  in relation to migration inquiries in the United States of America which would appear to indicate that interest in Australia by people in the United States has diminished? Is this the position or has there been some misreading of the statistics made available? 
I rise to support the amendment moved by the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor).  The proposition moved by the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Hewson)  is a long-established policy of the Victorian Branch of the Australian Labor Party and generally conforms with the policy of the Federal body of the Labor Party. It is fitting and appropriate that the proposed amendment should put this matter in its proper perspective. It is not simply a report that was distributed over the names of the people concerned but for many years its recommendations have been on the policy books of the Victorian Branch of the Australian Labor Party. Indeed, they were a part of the policy speech of the Leader of the State Parliamentary Labor Party during the recently held State elections. They are spelt out chapter and verse in the following terms: 
A Labor Government will initiate and finance a major research study into the brown coal deposits, examining such potential areas of use such as the chemical industry, gasification and petroleum. The research undertaken will have the financial support of the Federal Government. 
It was not just a matter of empty phrases such as those used by the honourable member for McMillan when he was a member of the Legislative Council of Victoria, as the member for that area. If the honourable member made those statements they could not have had much effect. Nobody ever got up in arms about them. The honourable member certainly did not feature many times in Press reports to the effect that he was screaming that the Liberal Government of the day had not acted on his advice. . 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! That is not a point of order. 
The honourable member must have been reported on page 133, in the comics section. It is ironical that at this time, the honourable member for McMillan should propose the establishment of a joint committee of inquiry. As I have indicated, this is a direct pinch from the Victorian Labor Party's election speech. I believe that the proposed committee can be an effective instrument not only in saving the lot of the people in the Latrobe Valley but also in endeavouring to influence the 
Victorian Government to develop a properly integrated fuel policy for the benefit of the Victorian people as a whole, with ultimate influence on the use of Australian resources for Australian people, not to swell the bank balances of overseas investors. 
We have heard a rather belated speech by the honourable member for McMillan. He was shedding crocodile tears about the situation in the Latrobe Valley. What did the honourable member say to the people who had been promised career industries in the Gas and Fuel Corporation or the State Electricity Commission of Victoria? In the face of bungling and policies that were directed towards the interests of private enterprise, what did the honourable member do to protect the Latrobe Valley people at that time? The brown coal industry has been brought to its knees by the very actions of the people whom he represented in the State Parliament. I am apprehensive - I think we all should be apprehensive - that this committee might become a phoney political exercise by the Liberal Party and the Country Party, either in this Parliament or in the State of Victoria. It is far too important for that. What happened in Victoria with the brown coal industry is very interesting. Brown coal was being sold for industrial and domestic use. The brown coal industry - the sale of briquettes - was a very good industry. But what happened? The State Government imposed a turnover tax on the Gas and Fuel Corporation and the State Electricity Commission. It was the confidence trick of the century. The State Government, under  Sir Henry  Bolte, imposed a 3 per cent turnover tax and then immediately increased the cost of fuel and electricity in that State. So the Victorian people were subsidising not only the efforts of people to bring the brown coal industry to its knees but also the oil companies which were dumping heating oil in Victoria although that oil was already being subsidised by their fuel sales. 
By dumping oil on the people of Victoria competition was reduced to a minimum. The turnover tax, increased charges, the dumping of heating oil resources and the co-operation that the State Government gave to Esso-BHP in producing natural gas in competition with the briquette industry all amounted to sabotage and tantamount destruction of the brown coal industry. We all know of the great bungle with the machinery that was used to produce briquettes in Victoria. The State Government, of course, imported a huge briquette machine from Germany. It imported one machine and paid for years and years storage on equipment that had become obsolete. This was superimposed on the price of the briquettes that were sold to the consumers throughout Victoria. Now we have the 16 per cent member for McMillan coming here and shedding crocodile tears about the poor people in the Latrobe Valley. It was little recompense to them to find themselves losing their homes and having to pull up stakes after being guaranteed career jobs in the area because the Lurgi equipment was being shut down. What was the objective? The objective was simply to hand over to private enterprise the industry which the honourable member now wants to resurrect. 
We want this type of committee to work. But can the honourable member for McMillan or any Government supporter who will support his proposition give us a guarantee that Ross Edwards and Tricky Dick will support the proposition? Or are we going to be entertained by the same performance as we have had when Ministers of the Federal Government in the areas of housing, transport and health and welfare have taken proposals to the State Government? What has it done? It has gone on with all this rubbish about State's rights and put impediments in the path of sound proposals and the offers of money to improve the lot of the people in Victoria. Can the Opposition guarantee that that will not happen again and that we will not go through a useless exercise with the State Government ar.d then at the crucial moment find that the same professional procrastination by the people in Victoria holds up any proposition that might be put forward? 
As I have indicated there has also been gross misrepresentation about some of the offers that have been made in the areas to which I have referred. There is also another aspect of developments that might arise from the inquiries that are made. Questions were asked in the Victorian Legislative Assembly yesterday of  Mr Balfour,  the Minister for Mines. He readily supported what I have said, that from 1963 onwards the policy of the State Government was to run the industry down. There has been no attempt whatsoever to maintain it and the State Government has indicated that it is an unprofitable industry. It was more intent on handing over to private enterprise the resources and the expertise that might have flowed from the investigations of the State Electricity Commission, to which the Minister and the honourable member for McMillan have made reference. 
A wealth of information has been accumulated by experts over a period of time. The brown coal industry and the State Electricity Commission were started as a State enterprise. The brown coal industry has suffered the same fate as some sections of the electricity supply industry, to the detriment of the Victorian people. One can reflect on some of the exercises that took place in the Kiewa hydroelectric scheme and the waste of money that accompanied the operations. Once again this was an attempt to hand a State instrumentality to private enterprise. The life blood of the Kiewa scheme was discontinued and the equipment was sold for about 10 per cent of its original cost to the contractor who was then working on the site. 
We acclaim this proposition, not as coming originally from the honourable member for McMillan but as the established policy of the Australian Labor Party - established over a period of time. The Minister for Minerals and Energy has indicated that the backdrop of our philosophy is to use the Australian resources in the interest of the Australian people; not in the interests of Esso, Australian Char Pty Ltd or any of the masters of the people who sit opposite. We want the backwoodsmen not to stand up here in an empty, pious way and state the propositions that they have, I repeat, pinched out of the Australian Labor Party's policy. We want them to add weight to what they say and to assure this House that the committee will get the complete co-operation of the State Country Party and State Liberal Party to go through a meaningful examination of the proposition, cease to sabotage it, cease to hand over the resources to private enterprise and co-operate with the Minister who has indicated clearly time and time again that we want the resources to be used in the best interests of the Australian people. 
If ever there were a case to be made out for this proposal one must harken back to the Latrobe Valley again. It was pitiful to see the families which had spent years and years in the Latrobe Valley having to send their children away from home to get employment because employment opportunities had ceased as a result of the sabotage of the industry to which I have made reference and to which our friend has been alluding. Who was responsible for that? The people who were responsible for that are the very people who are standing up here and shedding crocodile tears about the fate of the people in country districts. What did they do? The policy of the Australian 
Country Party is also the policy of the Victorian State Government. 
The Porta-Gas Co., which would be included in one of the areas of investigation suggested for the committee and which is a monopoly aided and abetted by the Victorian Government, sells Porta-gas to country people at twice the price per ton as it does to Japanese interests. I sincerely hope and trust that the proposition, as amended, is carried. The amendment puts the matter in its proper perspective and gives credit to the right people and that is the people of Victoria. This idea was initiated by the people in Victoria. I sincerely hope that it is carried and that we can get assurances from the Victorian Liberal Party and the Victorian Country Party - the cohorts and the counterparts of the honourable members sitting opposite - to ensure that it is carried out not as a cheap political exercise but in the best interests of the Australian people generally and in particular the Victorian people. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Housing and Minister for Works. Is it a fact that the Minister is planning a task force to investigate the Government's future role in industrialised or systems built housing with a view to reducing costs? If this is so, will the Minister give an assurance that if such plans come to fruition the homes mass-produced in factories will not be uniform or dull in design and construction, and that proper regard will be paid to the need for factory built houses to be of high quality, with a wide range of variation in the design? In other words, will he make sure that the industrialised home building does not lead to any lowering of standards or a lack of individuality? 
I rise to speak to the motion that the House take note of the report of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Road Safety. Having been associated over the last few months with this very fine Committee I would have been most disappointed tonight not to hear the Carpricorn Highway mentioned; so I am indebted to the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  for referring to it. I join with the previous speakers in this debate in saying that I hope this preliminary report of the Committee will play a substantial part in leading to the production of a com prehensive document which will lead to an alleviation of the road horror and the number of tragedies that we see from day to day as a result of road accidents. 
It has been my pleasure to participate in the work of this Committee, which is dealing with one of the most important matters within the responsibility of this Parliament. The co-operation of everybody who has served on this Committee points to the advantage of all-party committees endeavouring to reach a consensus, in this instance, on the basis of which methods can be found to eliminate as far as possible the incidence of road accidents. I think that the people who have worked in concert with this Committee - in particular the Secretary,  Mr Beggs,  and other staff associated with the Committee - are to be commended on the way in which they have carried out their duties. I publicly acknowledge the work they have done on this very important task. 
The interim report contains 3 preliminary recommendations. They include the setting up of a national authority on road safety and standards, the collection of statistical information to assist in a narrowing of the major areas of the problem and the need to develop a conscious desire to achieve a high degree of road safety by education including educational programs to influence children, drivers, pedestrians, passengers, cyclists, manuf acturers and the general community. A great deal of work already has been done. It has been carried out by a number of organisations which certainly have applied themselves in the areas in which they have been involved. But I believe that much of this effort has been wasted because, although the objectives of these organisations may be commendable, a number of bodies appear to bc pulling in all sorts of directions and because of this lack of co-ordination the results have suffered accordingly. For instance, I mention one aspect of the evidence that was put before the Committee. Evidence was taken from all sorts of people from all walks of life. They included people from the medical profession, manufacturers and road safety organisations. Evidence was also given by town planners and other people who are looking to conservation and areas that might be preserved around roads but not ignoring the effect their proposals would have on road safety. 
I understand that for some 14 years we have been trying to get a co-ordinated, uniform method of putting statistics together so we would have the simple operation - I think it is a simple operation but there may be more complexities than I envisage - of people going to an accident on the road and simply writing down the statistics that are necessary to be compiled for the benefit of a uniform operation by those people who look at statistics, see how they can be analysed and see how they can advise various people who have an effect on road safety and who can be a party to the elimination or reduction of the road toll. After 14 years we have the deplorable situation that we cannot even get from each of the States a document compiled on uniform lines. We have 6 different States and 6 different documents. 'It seems to me unbelievable that that should be the state of affairs, but the evidence is that it is the state of affairs. Australia is not so large that we should not be able to produce one document showing the make of car involved, how the accident happened and the other statistics that are necessary to conform with a uniform project. But that is not the case. I could show honourable members 5 different documents from 5 different States. So it seems to me that there is a necessity to get down to the matter of co-ordination and organisation. 
We have had a lot of reaction to the report. Since it has been produced numerous people from all walks of life have contacted me saying: 'It is a commendable proposition. We think that some of the recommendations must surely be supported by the Parliament. We think that surely the police departments in each of the States - the experts - can direct their attention to producing the wherewithal to reduce the road toll'. However some other people, for political or other reasons, have made some stupid observations about the recommendations and what I believe was a comprehensive report brought down by the committee. That is unfortunate, because we have heard the honourable member for Kennedy, the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr McKenzie)  and others who have served on this Committee say that politics was set aside, because human life surely is above that when you are looking at such a serious proposition. 
Therefore we should be looking at the matter of road safety in a vastly different way from the way in which we see some people within the various States looking at it. Instead of the Chief Secretary in Victoria,  Mr 
Rossiter, making some inane comments about the report, I would have expected the Victorian Government to make every endeavour to develop co-operation with the Commonwealth and the other States to institute a road safety code designed to reduce significantly the shocking road toll. It will not be just over the dead body of  Mr Rossiter  that we will achieve co-operation. If we do not achieve the utmost of understanding and liaison it will be over the dead bodies of a number of road users that people like the Chief Secretary will satisfy their ego. I think it is far more important to consider this than it is to listen to  Mr Rossiter  rave on about all these things. 
One would think from the observations of  Mr Rossiter  that we were well equipped to deal with road safety, but let me tell the House that we are not. Statistics are not available to local organisations or panels set up to deal with this very serious matter. If they want statistics they have to go to the Commonwealth Statistician or perhaps make investigations through  Mr Beggs  or someone else to find out what information is available. If we intend to examine this question in a responsible way we should be looking to the next Commonwealth conference to see what will be made available to the States for national roads. The Country Roads Board in Victoria receives in the vicinity of 60 per cent of the return to the State from the tax on petrol. This is spent on roads within Victoria. Far more money is spent on the country highways than on roads in the metropolitan area where the standard of road is left to the whim or will of the municipality which does not come to grips with the major factor in road safety - the standard of the roads and the way in which they are maintained. It seems to me that a great deal of attention should be paid to roads generally in Victoria by the people concerned. 
I do not desire to take up a great deal of the time of the Parliament but I would like to mention the areas into which the Committee will move. It will be looking at conservation. It will certainly be looking at the institutional frame work, the proliferation of authorities and the constitutional power which has been mentioned. There should be no constitutional barrier to setting up a central authority which could deal with road safety exclusively. No impediment should be placed in the way of any section of the community to prevent it from doing the sorts of things we would want it to do. The Committee will be looking at aspects of traffic engineering for road design, town planning, land usage, exposure to accidents and priority roads. 
I refer again to Victoria. When it comes to the introduction of signs on priority roads  Mr Rossiter  should take another look at these things. The signs have been up and down like a yo-yo. Perhaps not enough thought was put into looking after the interests of people using the roads. A mad dash was made. The municipalities were given the authority to put up the signs. They did not know what was meant by priority roads. The signs were put up, and the next day they were ordered to be taken down. It was  Mr Rossiter  who indicated that it would be over his dead body that there would be co-operation with the Commonwealth authority with the expertise to deal with this matter in a proper and intelligent way. So it seems to me that, within the frame work of the environment we should apply ourselves in a very real sense to town planning. To deal with this concept we will have to have people who can not only look after the environment in a way to be admired but who can also apply themselves to seeing what trees along the sides of the roads may be hazards and will have to be removed. They will have to decide how to overcome what is referred to as the hardware along the freeways. One cannot be hard and fast about the principle of freeways running around cities or through them. 
Human life is another factor to be looked at. It may well be a great thing to be able to enable an additional 1,000 cars to pour in and out of Melbourne each day. In terms of costs, it may well be that goods travelling between Sydney and Melbourne and beyond should not be impeded but the value of human life, to which the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr McKenzie)  referred, must.be considered. I am pleased to note that every member of the Select Committee on Road Safety has set other considerations aside and has intelligently, in my view, considered the evidence that so far has been put before them. What is done from now on is in the hands of the Committee. There was a unanimous decision that the Committee should look at those fields to which I have made brief reference. Vehicle design, manufacturer cooperation and all the information that the Committee has had to this point of time from departments and other people must be taken into account. I commend the Committee's recommendations to the House, which, at some future time, will have to face up to what is a commendable proposition from the Committee. The Committee certainly will be presenting further reports after - having examined people who, I am sure, are dedicated to the aspiration of all members of the Committee, its  Chairman  and its staff, namely to save as many human lives as possible. I commend the report and hope that Committee recommendations which come before the House will be supported by all honourable members whether from the Opposition or the Government benches. 
Has the Minister for Social Security seen reports attributed to the Victorian Miniser of Health,  Mr Scanlan,  that some of the Australian Government statements on its universal health insurance program were fraudulent, if not misleading? Apart from the curious syntax of the Victorian Minister's statement, whereby fraudulence is not misleading, will the Minister comment on the accuracy of  Mr Scanlan's  reported statement that the Australian Government's plan is a blueprint to nationalise private hospitals and demonstrates an intention to put wage or price restraint on private hospitals? 
What action has the Minister for Immigration taken to remedy the widespread deficiencies in existing provisions in interpreting and translation facilities in the community revealed by the departmental survey of interpreting and translation needs in the community which he tabled, I believe, on 10 October? 
 I do not want to take up a great deal of the time of the Committee, but I wish to reply to some of the jibbering idiots who have spoken from the other side of the Committee and to show what they mean by industrial relations, what they mean by industrial peace and how they would go about achieving their ends. What we need to recall here is the fact that it is the sheer irresponsibility of an anti-Labor Senate and its anti-workers Senate which is holding the industrial peace of this country to ransom. Looking at the industrial disputes which are current, we find that disputes exist in Victoria and New South Wales. Both of those States have State Liberal Governments. The attitude taken by those 2 State Liberal Governments forces organisations ultimately to take the position that they have taken there. They see no alternative. There is no endeavour by those governments to negotiate or to conciliate; they try to bludgeon workers into submision. 
Let us look at the history of industrial peace and the way in which workers have been subject to the pressures applied by the previous Liberal-Country Party Government to obtain industrial peace. The methods used did not include conciliation or the flowery propositions put by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch).  The former government dealt with industrial matters by creating a pool of unemployed. It used the plight of human beings to hold the workers in subjugation. 
The whole of the industrial concept now before the chamber has been developed by the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron).  It is a crying shame that the workers of this country will not be able to reap the benefits of what was very good legislation which had as its end the achievement of industrial peace, to help to streamline areas of industrial relations and to get matters before the various industrial tribunals of this country. The whole pattern was laid down in this Bill. 
The Opposition has been under the pressure of the people who run it. I refer to those who own and control the means of production, those who see the communists under tram tickets and those who see penal provisions in industrial relations as the only answer. This Government put its industrial proposals to the people and received a mandate at the last election. It has endeavoured to implement the mandate that it received on 2 December to carry out a reform of industrial relations by placing the accent on conciliation and not in the first instance on arbitration, and not to use the penal provisions to batter workers into submission. This Government seeks to encourage those involved in disputes which arise from time to time to sit around the table and to discuss those problems. 
Let us look at one or two other aspects of interference by previous Ministers for Labour and National Service. In the course of one of the disputes in the oil industry in 1972, the question before the parties was an industrial agreement that had been running for some considerable time. What occurred? We saw the then Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon),  intervene not for the purpose of trying to resolve the dispute but to put pressure on the oil companies to ensure that agreement was not reached by them with the unions. 
 No, it did not do them much good, as the honourable member for Phillip puts it. They capitulated. The oil companies were reported in the Press as saying that, as far as they were concerned, they had had enough of carrying the can for the then Federal Government and that they were not going to be intimidated any more. They sat down with the unions and, through the processes of negotiation, were able to resolve that dispute which should have been resolved many weeks before. That is the history of the previous Government. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition shed crocodile tears about this legislation which has been somewhat mutilated by the Opposition parties in the Senate. But those people who are travelling home at present and listening to this broadcast will place the blame for the current power disputes in Victoria where that blame properly belongs. That blame should be placed at the feet of the Liberal-Country Party Government in Victoria, as should blame be placed at the feet of our friend,  Sir Robert  Askin, for the industrial problems in New South Wales. Other pressures that arise from time to time come from individuals who are still doing the bidding of people such as Hamer and the like. 
All this talk that we hear from the Opposition parties in projecting an image of having provided a formula for achieving industrial peace and a solution of industrial problems is rubbish. On the contrary, what they have done is to delete some very important aspects of this legislation with respect to amalgamations. As the Minister for Labour has properly categorised it, one of the useless exercises that we go through in this country is tolerating a whole host of small organisations that impede to a great degree the realisation of proper industrial relations and which certainly frustrate some of the aspects of our industrial life. I do not propose to take the matter any further. I simply say that the Opposition parties in the Senate are creating a situation in which workers in this country, both in the compensation field and in the private sector, will realise how their position has deteriorated as a result of the destruction of some aspects of the legislation. They will keep that well in mind when Bills such as the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill are held up in the Senate. When we go back to the people on these issues the members of the Opposition will be the sufferers. It is certainly a tragedy that some aspects of the Bill have been removed but I hope and trust that a more responsible attitude will be taken by other members of the Opposition. If honourable members opposite are to get compromise, they do not want to come into the Parliament and adopt the attitude that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition adopted, and conduct themselves as he did this evening. 
Has the attention of the Prime Minister been drawn to the gallup poll results published today showing that there is overwhelming support for the Government in its determination to buy back control of Australian resources through the Australian Industry Development Corporation? Can he say why concerted efforts are being made to frustrate the legitimate aspirations of ordinary Australians over this vital matter? Will he assure the nation that neither the Opposition in this Parliament nor other spokesmen for overseas interests outside the Parliament will deter the Government from gearing up the AIDC for its great work? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Urban and Regional Development. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the pending auction sale by the Family Care organisation of Emerald Hill in South Melbourne? 'Have approaches been made to the Australian Government to assist the South Melbourne Council to acquire this site? Does the proposed sale provide the community with the opportunity to preserve and enhance a significant portion of our urban fabric similar to the action that the Australian Government has taken in Glebe, Sydney? 
I ask the Minister for Immigration whether interest in migration to Australia is rising rapidly in South American nations. If so, will the Minister ensure that better arrangements are made for transporting from South America migrants who are arriving in steady numbers at the present time? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Minerals and Energy. There has been much speculation in regard to the matter of bunkering fuel. I ask the Minister: Has there been a reduction in the amount of bunkering fuel available in Australian ports? 
Has the Minister for Overseas Trade received a submission from the electronics industry setting out that the increase of imports of electronic components and made up television, radio and other sets, as a result of the reduction of tariffs recently made, will be such that nearly all component manufacturing in Australia will cease and that some 7,500 to 10,000 people will lose their jobs? Does he consider that the electronics industry may have a special technological significance in the present industrial revolution equal to that of steel in the first industrial revolution? Will he consider calling an industry conference so that management, unions and others may have a chance to submit plans to retain technology in Australia, to ensure that people now employed in the industry will not suffer undue hardship and, further, to ensure that consumer protection will be such that adequate protection will be accorded to them against surreptitious dumping by overseas manufacturers? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Services and Property. Is it a fact that Reid House is now occupied by squatters and will the Minister advise the House of the present circumstances surrounding this matter? 
Has the Minister for Social Security noted comments attributed to the Victorian Premier in relation to unemployment benefit allegedly paid to people who, he said, will not work? The Victorian Premier has said that some applicants for benefits have registered themselves as lion tamers, glass blowers, etc. What evidence has the Minister of this assertion? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education. Will the recommendations of the Kangan Committee on Technical and Further Education to establish a commission and to provide Si 05m be implemented from 1 July 1974? When is the necessary legislation likely to be introduced into the House? 
We are now accustomed to hearing the diatribe from the terrible twins across the road - the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  - 'who are belatedly the Opposition spokesmen on industrial matters. Up to this time I would have! thought that the honourable member for Wannon was of the view that a union was something that happened behind a high school shelter shed after hours. These 2 individuals who came from great pastures and who have wonderful backgrounds in industrial relations would not know the first thing about industrial matters and their contributions in this place this afternoon are indicative of their thinking on this subject. One would think that butter would not melt in the mouths of employers or employer organisations. The Opposition says that the whole burden of industrial disputes rests on the factory workers. This great paragon of virtue, the honourable member for Wannon, would probably create more industrial disputation if his policies or the policies of the Liberal Party of Australia were given effect to than we have had in any period of industrial history. 
The whole thing is taken out of perspective when one talks about the number of man hours that have been lost. Let us look at this for a moment and at the atmosphere of different periods of strike action. I ask the honourable member for Angas to tell us what he would do or what the Liberal Party would do. What is the Opposition proposing? Not one proposition has been put to this House. All that those opposite do is to belly-ache about what happens when industrial disputes take place. But an industrial dispute is a fact of industrial life. Industrial disputes will continue to take place because that is the name of the game. As the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  pointed out, we are living in a society in which there are labour markets. The price of labour is equally as important to a worker as is the price of minerals to the mining industry. 
From your contribution to the debate I do not think you do. The Opposition says the whole responsibility for industrial disputation rests completely with the unions. But let us have a look at what the Opposition's record was when it was in office. It had only one solution to industrial disputes. That solution was not to cultivate conciliation which is of prime concern under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act but to encourage employers to disregard conciliation entirely, not to look at the possibility of reaching agreements in anamicable way and not to adopt the position advocated by some of the great exponents of conciliation such as senior Commissioner Chambers and others. What should be done is to set a minimum and then to go out and encourage employers and employees to settle their differences amicably by negotiation and conciliation. But what the Opposition did was to create a pool of unemployed. When the officials stepped in to try to alter the system it threw them in gaol, as it did Clarrie O'Shea. That was the Opposition's solution when it was in office and that will be its solution again if, heaven forbid, the Opposition spokesmen on industrial matters rise to the heights of becoming either Minister for Labor under a LiberalCountry Party Government or a  deputy  of some sort. All that has been put by the Opposition in this debate is sheer hypocrisy. There are 2 entirely different climates to be taken into consideration. The Opposition's solution is to create a pool of unemployed and to invoke the provisions of the penal clauses set out in the industrial legislation. Our policy is far removed from that. There has been talk about initiatives. The initiatives that have been taken by the present Minister for Labor and Immigration are to be commended. We have the Moore inquiry being held in order to bring people together. Discussions are taking place between all sections of the community to ascertain how we can overcome industrial problems without disputation. 
In regard to man hours lost, prior to 1972 approximately 3 million man hours were lost due to industrial disputes. For every 66,000 persons unemployed about 13.7 million man hours are lost. What is the economic advantage in that sort of situation? One cannot just quote the figures which have been used by the 2 previous speakers on the other side. The industrial figures for 1974, taken quarter by quarter, include the figures for one serious dispute which took place in the metal industry and which followed the course of a fact of industrial life about which the honourable member for Wannon and the honourable member for Angas would not know the first thing. When agreements come up for review, this sort of skirmish takes place. Until such time as honourable members opposite can control the other end of the spectrum, namely, the prices of the commodities, they have no right whatsoever to say to workers at large: 'You cannot sell your labour to the person who is prepared to pay the highest price'. Honourable members opposite deal with their cattle or whatever they sell down on their properties and then say to the workers that that is not their right. Honourable members opposite have not acted in respect of prices. They rejected price control; they do not want to be part of that. They do not want the Prices Justification Tribunal to work. All they want to do is hammer the workers into submission by all the means at their disposal, by imposing penal clauses and the like. 
The Opposition has put up a phoney proposition and has argued the point about this, that and the other. But let us have a clear look at the record of industrial disputes. Between 1967 and 1971, the number of disputes increased by 280 per cent. If honourable members considered the situation in 1973 in terms of a percentage of work days lost per 1,000 employees, they would see that the percentage was less than it was in 1972. 
Interest rates! What an inane remark. It shows clearly the level of mentality and understanding of the honourable member for Wannon in regard to industrial affairs. He would not know what day it was. Let us look at the other question of industrial disputes prompted for political reasons - something that members of the Opposition made great play of. The Askin Government prompted industrial disputation over the 35-hour week, purely for political gimmickry. I see the honourable member for Wannon leaving the chamber. He does not want to hear the truth. Let us look at this situation in terms of the public interest.  Sir Henry  Bolte,  Mr Hamer  and the like have all played this game. That was the name of the game. And here we have that giant intellect,  Senator Rae.  Newspaper headlines have stated: 'Rae's Next Target may be the Unions'. They have always been the target of conservatives like honourable members opposite and people who represent vested interests. Amongst other things,  Senator Rae  said to a reporter: 'I would like to be part of a select committee to investigate the trade unions in Australia's society and economy'. Why does he not include the employer organisations? Are they in some exalted position that they should not be placed under public scrutiny? The Donovan inquiry in the United Kingdom looked at all aspects of this matter. Why does  Senator Rae  not include employer organisations in the terms of reference of such a select committee? The reporter pursued  Senator Rae  about a number of other things he would like to do. The report states: 
When I remarked that the third one seemed the most interesting, he rummaged in the wastepaper basket and handed me a copy of the morning's Launceston 'Examiner'. It was headed 'Rae Eyeing the Unions'. 
Of course he is eyeing the unions. That is all he has ever intended to do. That is all the honourable member for Wannon and the honourable member for Angas want to do. They do not want to produce a solution. We challenge honourable members opposite to put on the line what they would do - not merely voice criticism of the tremendous job being done by the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron).  Again I challenge honourable members opposite. The next time they get on their feet for the next thrilling episode of 'Blue Hills', which we hear day after day, and refer to the twaddle that is on the blue sheet at present, let them, particularly the honourable members for Wannon and Angas, who would not know anything about trade unions, try to reach conclusions and not talk a lot of drivel. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. The discussion is concluded. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Manufacturing Industry. Has his attention been drawn to reports of unemployment arising in textile factories in Wangaratta, Victoria? Can he inform the House of the steps his Department has taken to meet the situation? 
I rise to support the clause and to oppose the amendment. What the amendment proposes to do, of course, as the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  has said, is to say: 'Look, here is a quantity of money for the Australian Government. You go for your life and spend it as you wish.' But let us reflect on that. If we could see some performance by the people to whom the money is being allocated such an attitude would be justified and there might be some argument for it; there might be some valid reasoning in the argument put forward by the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon).  But let us have a look at the track record. 
The traffic chaos in the inner suburban areas of Melbourne reflects the attitude of the State Government to those areas. One sees the way in which the underground railway project has developed. Certain people will reap a harvest from the money paid by taxpayers, not necessarily just in the inner suburban areas of Melbourne but also throughout the State of Victoria. The inner suburban areas are the parking lots for the central business district of Melbourne. I wonder who is in control. The Hamer Government pruned back the monumentally wrong recommendations contained in the engineer's report of the Transportation Committee, regarding it as clearly an error of judgment. The Hamer Government announced prior to the previous State election that it would prune back the amount of S2,2O0m to be spent on freeway construction. At the present moment the Country Roads Board is continuing to plan and design many of these concrete monstrosities that are tearing the inside out of a beautiful city, and it is doing so with total disregard for the people of Melbourne and without reflecting on the fact that surely people ought to be put before motor vehicles in a city such as that. With a total disregard for and without any respect for the people who live in the inner suburban areas it continues to construct freeways. 
If we are to have any hope of anything being done about the recommendations contained in the report of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Road Safety, which was compiled after the Committee had taken reams of evidence, the Australian Government will have to take responsibility and see to it that the money which is allocated to the States and to local government authorities is spent in a proper way. The Government has to ensure that the interests of the people who live in- the suburban areas in our cities are protected by seeing to it that roads are constructed in a proper way, using the types of materials which ensure the safety provisions required. We have to have regard to these things. Surely we should have a view in relation to these matters. We should not allow their control to be wholly vested in people at the local government and State government level who have failed to protect the interests of the community. I think we would be failing in our responsibility if we allowed that to happen. As the Minister said, this is Just not on. 
We Should not allocate money in such a way that it is wasted. We have seen the results of the sorts of things that I have pointed out, and I refer again to the points I made about the underground railway project and the fact that the Victorian Government has failed to implement a proper plan of road safety. The elected Government in Victoria has for years and years had a road safety committee to investigate these matters. All that the Victorian Government has done is talk about the problem. After 2 children were killed on the Preston overpass over a reservoir we saw the spectacle of the Premier the next day taking kiddies across the road by hand. What cynicism! What an act of hypocrisy! The Victorian Government is just not doing the job. 
I repeat that it is the responsibility of this Government to ensure that proper roads are built and that we do not continue with freeway construction which is totally obnoxious to the people who reside in the inner suburban areas of Melbourne. The construction of freeways shows a total disregard for the wishes of these people. We must have a view about these projects. If we believe that they should not be built, we should be saying that they should not be built, and we should be allocating funds for specific projects. 
They should have a say. All people in Victoria should have a say. The people who represent Federal electorates ought to have a say. 
Yes, all of us. I do not know what sort of contribution the honourable member for Parramatta would make, but he should have a say. The other point to make when we are talking about road construction is that one does not have to travel many miles out of Melbourne to see that local government has failed totally to do the sorts of things which are absolutely necessary. Quite frankly, when one looks at some of the performances of local government, it is sheer hyprocisy to say that it has the capacity to do the job properly. We think that local governments, State governments and the Australian Government should combine to plan for future road construction. If there is to be planning in a general way, why should it not foe in concert, with each of the 3 tiers of government participating? I believe that it would be totally irresponsible to allocate the amount of money provided in the Bill without providing adequate safeguards as to its expenditure. I repeat that the Road Safety Committee has done a tremendous amount of work which should not be wasted. 
I have one other point. In Victoria a policeman who goes to the scene of an accident records certain details. There are not 2 States which have similar documents. It is impossible to computerise the detail which it is necessary to examine in order to look intelligently at the questions concerning road safety because each State has a different format for taking details at the scene of an accident. The States have been trying to solve the problem for years. I do not think that the track performance is quite good enough. I believe that we ought to participate. It would be irresponsible to allocate amounts such as those contained in the Bill without the Australian Govern ment participating in determining how the money will be spent. 
Is the Minister for Housing and Construction aware of claims by  Mr R.  C. Baker, Managing Director of the Mainline Corporation, that the Government did not try to save the Corporation because the Government is opposed to free enterprise? 
-At the outset I would like to congratulate the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan)  on his maiden speech this evening and also to extend my sympathy to him and his family on their sad loss. I support the Bill and oppose the amendment. As the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  said, the Budget is not only an economic document; it is a political document. The Budget presented by the Treasurer in a fine speech on 17 September is designed to comply with the philosophy of my Party- that is, to redistribute the burden on the wage earner to the more affluent people in our society, those who have a greater capacity to carry it. The main thrust of the Budget is directed to continuing the programs in social welfare, health, urban and regional development and many other areas. The program is contained in the policy speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  for which the Australian Labor Party received a mandate from the Australian people at 2 elections- in December 1972 and as late as May of this year. It is a good Budget. It deserves the support of all people who have benefited by the implementation of the policies of the Australian Labor Party and who will benefit as a result of the allocations made in the Budget. 
Before I turn to one or two sections of the Budget I shall take the opporunity to congratulate  Mr Ian  Macphee, the honourable member for Balaclava, on his maiden speech. I am sure he will contribute a great deal to the deliberations of this Parliament in the future on matters concerning labour and industry. He will lift the level of understanding of the Opposition on matters of industrial relations as he is the only person on that side of the House who has any understanding of the requirements necessary to achieve a high degree of efficiency and responsibility in that area. It is pleasing to hear the honourable member for Balaclava support the notion of amalgamation of industrial organisations as being a desirable concept. I agree with him that it is desirable that there should be minimal intrusion by any government into industrial disputes, except to encourage co-operation, negotiation and conciliation. 
I subscribe to the view that in the main the larger and more powerful industrial organisations have acted in a more efficient and responsible way than most of the smaller, fragmented organisations. The Budget provides for an allocation of $ 17.8m for the national employment and training system in the years 1974-75. This system will further extend its program of assistance to industry and commerce to encourage a training consciousness in the private sector. A sum of $452,000 has been allocated for the training of training officers in order to give effect to the scheme. There will be an increase of $8.8m in the amount provided for apprenticeship training. I am glad to see that these provisions did not go unnoticed by the Honourable F. M. Hewitt, MLC, who is the Minister for Labor and Industry in New South Wales.  Mr Hewitt  stated: 
I am really very pleased with the generous increases provided by the Federal Government. Subsidies for metropolitan employers have almost doubled from $260 a year to $460 a year for each eligible first year apprentice. Country employers will also receive $460 a year. 
Where employers are providing special initial off-the-job training for apprentices in their own workshops or at technical colleges the subsidy has been increased by $4 per week to $20 per week. 
That acknowledgement by the Minister of those provisions is richly deserved. Progress has been made in this area. One or two other points were not mentioned in the letter. There has also been an increase in the living away from home allowance to be paid to country apprentices who are in full time training. This allowance will move from $10 a week to $12.60. All second year apprentices will be paid $5 a week. As has already been indicated, as from 1 October 1974 a wages subsidy covering both metropolitan and country apprentices of $460 will be paid. 
One of the causes of rising costs, particularly in the building industry, is the acute shortage of skilled personnel. For this the previous Government and a whole range of employers must stand condemned. Companies would not take on apprentices. Each year over the past seven or eight years thousands of lads throughout the country were turned away when they made application for the very few apprenticeships which were available. A classic example involves the electrical contracting industry in Victoria which was a most unstable section of the electrical industry. It was training 95 per cent of the electrical mechanics. Of course the contracts in this industry varied from time to time. On many occasions lads were placed in the position of having their indentures cancelled because the industry did not have work for them. It was well known at that time that due to technological changes and other factors it would probably be necessary in the future for individuals to be trained at least twice during their working lives. The LiberalCountry Party Government was either totally oblivious of the situation, due to its incompetence, or simply prepared to ignore the fate of individuals who would become redundant as a result of changes in the mode of production. Had that sort of program been initiated at about that time we would not be in the difficulty we are in today in supplying skilled personnel. In order to have an effective retraining program and appreticeship training as well as finding a formula for some of the economic difficulties we now confront, it will be necessary to have the cooperation of efficient and responsible organisations from both sides of the industrial fence. The Government's policies have played their part in providing such a result, despite the fact that the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill was successfully mutilated by the professional obstructionists in the other place. It is a pity that the honourable member for Balaclava was not here at the time to talk a bit of sense into some of his colleagues. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  must have a hide like a rhinoceros. He had the audacity to stand in this chamber as though butter would not melt in his mouth and move some phoney amendment that reeks of hyprocisy and is indicative of the cynical, empty contributions we have learned to expect from the white hope of the Liberals. Thank God he belongs to them. This was the man who, as Treasurer, introduced the Budget that set in train the inflationary spiral we are now experiencing. The level of inflation has been kept at the level it is now at only by action taken by this Labor Government. As the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  observed, inflation is an international problem. I will have more to say about this aspect in a few moments. 
We frequently hear the cry from the Opposition that the Labor Government has done nothing about inflation; that it has taken no steps to combat it. The Labor Government has revalued our currency, provided tariff cuts, introduced restrictive trade practices legislation and initiated the Moore conference. I subscribe to the view of the honourable member for Gellibrand that there will necessarily have to be a lot of co-operation by the 3 areas involved- the employers, the unions and the Government- to overcome some of the difficulties that arise because of the obstructionist attitude of the Opposition. We also hear from the Opposition comments about what we should be doing about inflation, but when it had the opportunity to provide the constitutional authority for the Government to come to grips with prices and incomes it supported the opposition. That was sheer hypocrisy. Of course, this is the view of Government supporters, but it might be noted that  Mr Alan  Woods, the Economic Editor of the 'Sydney Morning Herald '-a journal not famous for its support of the Labor Government- his similar ideas, because in November 1973 he said: 
There is good reason to believe that, without the actions taken by the Government, the current rate of inflation would be a good deal higher than even the present 10 per cent. 
He also said: 
It is also true that the successive revaluations and in particular the 25 per cent tariff cuts were economically necessary actions that a Liberal-Country Party Government could never have taken because of the influence of the Country Party. 

 Dr M. Porter, of the International Monetary Fund, in November 1973 said that if the Government had not revalued the dollar Australia would have faced an inflation rate of 20 per cent in a short time. A leading management consultant is reported to have said: 
The Federal Government is not to blame for the present rate of inflation. 
Melbourne managing director,  Mr. J.  Young, is quoted as saying: 
Australia is caught up in a wave of international inflation and there's very little the Australian Government can do about it. 
This supports the contention of previous speakers that inflation, by nature, is international and that factor directly affects our capacity to come to grips with it. It has also been the cry of the Opposition and those who run with it that inflation emerged as a problem in Australia only after the election of the Labor Government in December 1972. What a lot of rubbish! 
Let us look at the history of economic matters through the 1960s. In common with most developed countries, Australia suffered a sharp increase in the rate of inflation. It was sent off in a spiral by the incredible budget strategy of the McMahon Government in 1 97 1 . The honourable member for Lilley spoke of the unemployment that exists today. There is a sharp difference between unemployment today and unemployment in 1971. The unemployment being experienced today was not created by the budget strategy of the Labor Government. But the unemployment of 1971-72, which set this in train, was deliberately created by the Liberal-Country Party Government. 
-I will tell you how. It is worth repeating that the then government received its riding instructions from an individual who was then the retiring  chairman  of Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd,  Sir Colin  Syme. On 1 4 April 1 97 1 , he said: 
Inflation in Australia is reaching danger level. We should regard the situation as very serious and encourage the Government to take steps to control it. We should then put up with what the Government does without too much whingeing. One necessary measure seems to be to reduce over-full employment. 
The demand-depressing action taken in the 197 1 budget when there was no real indication of a demand recovery and the continued assertion in that Budget that wage increases were the basic cause of inflation led to the situation that developed. I might add that the then Treasurer,  Mr Snedden,  who is now the heir apparent, on 22 January 1972 answered certain questions from the 'Australian' newspaper. This was mentioned by the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Riordan)  in his address. When commenting on the latest unemployment figures, which showed that 120,574 were registered for employment in December 1 97 1 , the then Treasurer said: 
We have achieved what we set out to do in that we have created an environment in which over-award payments are depressed. 
-Of course he was. The policy followed by the Government was a ruthless tightening of the monetary screws. It brought economic growth to a jarring stop. A large pool of unemployed was created in which there was the human misery and frustration associated with that development. 
You have never worked in your life, so you would not know. Other individuals subscribe to the view that I have expressed. They are people who do not commonly support the policies of the Australian Labor Party. I refer first to Professor J. W. Nevile, Professor of Economics at the University of New South Wales, who said: 
In common with most developed countries, Australia suffered a sharp increase in the rate of inflation at the end of the '60s. 
Also, Professor Michael Parkin, Visting Research Economist and Professor of Economics at Manchester University, speaking on 'Monday Conference 'in November 1973 said: 
I think to explain your present inflation you have to . . . go back to, really back to the middle '60s, as early as 1 966 . . . it's been built up over quite a long period, almost- well getting close to- a decade, now. 
I turn again to our friend Alan Woods of the 'Sydney Morning Herald ' who stated: 
The extraordinary rate of growth is a major factor in the present high level of inflation in the economy, and it was a situation that Labor inherited from its predecessors. The misguided 1971 Budget and the subsequent easy-money policy that followed it, the over-expansionary 1972 Budget and the previous Government's failure to act effectively on the exchange rate and capital inflow all led up to the explosive growth in the money supply. 
In the course of the contribution of the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  some remarks came from the Opposition when he spoke about inflation being an international phenomenon. Once again I will quote from one of the experts in this field, Professor Galbraith, who said: 
In all countries, the higher price of imports is cited as an important factor in inflation. In other words, the disease is international. 
There are many other quotations, but I think we can rely on Professor Galbraith to put forward an authentic view. I think he would be regarded as an expert. What about the vague and negative contributions that have been made by honourable members opposite? Have we heard any alternatives from them? No, we have heard just completely negative contributions that mean absolutely nothing. Of course, the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  believed that that was the case, because he is quoted in the 'National Times' of 10 November 1973 as saying: 
If the Liberal Party won an election tomorrow, we wouldn't be able to reduce prices. 
Once again I am relying heavily on the 'Sydney Morning Herald'. This is what it said about the heir apparent, the alternative Prime Minister, after his televised appeal for a prices and incomes freeze- it indicates the opinion which people held of him at that time: 
Altogether the Opposition leader appears to have about as little real understanding of the Australian economy today as he did when, as Liberal Treasurer, he got it so fouled up as to produce the worst unemployment for a decade together with a totally unnecessary recession . . . 
On the evidence of last night's broadcast and his earlier statements, he still imagines that wage rises are the sole and simple cause of inflation, when it is abundantly obvious - to everybody except the Leader of the Opposition that the bulk of the present problem of rising prices is due to the importation of overseas inflation in primary commodities. 
Another quotation reads: 

 Mr Snedden 's own anti inflation program is contradictory and on such an important point as how he would cut Government spending, it is vague. 
He has never been more vague than he is today. I believe I have exposed honourable members opposite for what they are- a phoney bunch of individuals, masquerading as people who are different from those who were thrown out of office because of their complete incompetence. They are the very people who created the climate for the economic problems which we face today. They are professional knockers who do not have a positive contribution to make. 
Despite what has been said by the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  basically the economy is sound. I do not know how the honourable member arrived at his figures, but my information is that, compared with the position in 1971-72, the value of exports of rural origin has increased by 33 per cent, and over the same period the gross value of rural production has increased by 59 per cent. So I wonder at the effort which the honourable member for Lilley has made in trying to hoodwink the Australian people into believing that honourable members opposite are a real alternative government. During the past 12 months the gross national product has increased by more than 5 per cent. The prophets of doom in the Opposition are acting in a completely irresponsible manner, and this is a time when objective reasoning and co-operation from aU sections of the community are absolutely necessary in order to get us out of our present difficulties. 
Has the Minister for Housing and Construction seen or heard reports regarding the Victorian Minister of Housing,  Mr Dickie,  who allegedly walked out of the FederalState Housing Ministers Conference in Canberra last Friday after a clash with him? Could the Minister state whether this was in fact the case? Could he also explain the differences which are reported to have occurred between  Mr Dickie  and himself on the issue of the means test applied to applicants for government housing? 
-Will the Minister for Minerals and Energy inform the House of his proposals on the pricing of North West Shelf natural gas? Further, what basis of participation in on-shore minerals search will be adopted by the Petroleum and Minerals Authority? 
-I should like to address my remarks to the estimates for the Department of Housing and Construction and I will deal with a number of matters relating to the work that has been put into this Department by the Minister and for which he ought to be applauded. The honourable members for Angas  (Mr Giles)  talked about people who could certainly get a deposit for a property, no matter how small it may be, and I will refer later to some of the matters raised by my colleague, the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Oldmeadow).  Sure, they got a deposit on the property, but they were spreadeagled by speculators who took them for every cent they had in the world, and people like the honourable member for Angas and his colleagues in Victoria were the perpetrators of that. 
To deal specifically with what this Government was confronted with when it took office, the housing industry was bursting at the seams. Walk up and down Collins Street in Melbourne and you will see the great edifices that were built when people were still waiting and hoping for housing commission homes. We were confronted with a building industry which was short of labour and this shortage was causing the cost of building construction in Victoria to skyrocket. And whose fault was that? The people who sit on the other side of this chamber and their colleagues in Victoria, because none of them supported the propositions that were consistently put forward by the Labor Party and the Australian Council of Trade Unions calling on the people whom honourable members opposite represent to apprentice carpenters, plumbers, electrical mechanics in order to relieve the pressures on the labour market. What we have today represents exploitation of State departments, who are the only people training skilled labour. We have a labour shortage for which the Opposition is responsible. If it had taken the necessary steps some 10 years ago we would not be in the sorry plight that we are in now. There was absolute liquidity, maximum liquidity, poured into the building industry which also aggravated the situation. That is why this Government had to take the steps it did to correct the demand on the industry. Having done that, unlike our predecessorsand I point out the sharp difference between the policies of the Opposition and the policies of the Government- we then set about planning for the future. We set up organisations with a view to coming to grips with the labour problem and doing the sorts of things for which the Government will reap the benefit in a short while. 
When we talk about shortages of housing at the present moment let us reflect on the track record of that great paragon of virtue, the Minister for Housing in Victoria,  Mr Dickie.  There is a great record! I will read from the Victorian Hansard a question asked by  Mr Edmunds,  the member for Moonee Ponds, of the Minister of Transport on behalf of the Minister of Housing.  Mr Edmunds  asked how many tenancy and purchase applications respectively were outstanding in the following categories of families in the metropolitan area: (a) up to 3 children; (b) 4 children, and so on. It is an inglorious record and one that the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier)  ought to have a look at. In Bendigo there is a total of 219 people who have to wait 18 months for a house. Great stuff! The answer contains several pages of detailed information. I seek leave to incorporate this document in Hansard. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Berinson)  -Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 
As I do not have much time at my disposal I will not go through the list, but honourable members opposite from Victoria who represent electorates embracing the areas concerned should look at it. It is a record of which nobody ought to be very proud. Before honourable members opposite are critical of the efforts of the Australian Government to move the industry out of the situation in which it found itself when the present Government took over from the previous Government, they ought to apply some pressure on  Mr Dickie  whose efforts in this regard are a matter of record. 
The honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  criticised the proposed setting up of the Australian Housing Corporation. If he knew of the material which has been produced by the 
Master Builders Association, the Housing Industry Association and the building unions in conjunction with the Victorian Trades Hall Council and the steps that are necessary to be taken within the ambit of the projected Housing Corporation, he would know that it will bring about the sorts of things to which we have made reference and that it will show in a practical way the blocks of land available in Victoria. All we need is co-operation by  Mr Dickie  with the Minister for Housing and Construction and we will be able to come to grips with the difficulties confronting people in Victoria with respect to housing. 
I turn very quickly to the matter of how speculators get to individuals who are at their mercy. 
In the contracts of sale of some of these speculators who exploit purchasers to the maximum, there is a clause which provides that the purchaser takes over the whole of the vendor's liability. Therefore the purchaser has to make good on settlement the difference between 14 per cent and 17.5 per cent- an additional 3.5 per cent- on $10,000 for, say, 4 1/2 years. Those sorts of things have been pointed out clearly. I do not have the time to deal with each instance of such deception in respect to vendor terms. I again congratulate the Minister for the initiative he has taken in setting up an advisory body which will be available to provide advice to individuals buying homes under those circumstances. I am not for one moment suggesting that all agents are the same but a hell of a lot of them fall into the category I have mentioned. One individual- a director of, I think, J. B. Winston and Co. of 187 Mount Alexander Road, Ascot Vale- has offered to set up that type of service in his own premises to provide housing information and advisory services. I understand that the Minister has taken the necessary steps to bring about this facility as quickly as possible so that it can deal with documentation- the meaning of expressions and terms used in documents generally- in words one can understand. At present one can hardly read them let alone be aware of the hidden costs incurred by the purchasers. Sometimes these are not known. 
There are two or three other directions in which the Department of Housing and Construction has moved. For instance, there is housing tax relief. In his 1972 policy speech the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said that until interest rates could be substantially reduced a scheme of tax deductability for home interest payments would be introduced. He said that this scheme would commence operation as from 1 July 1974 and that, unlike the previous Government's home savings grant, would provide direct tax relief not only for the new home buyers but also for nearly all of those people who are presently paying off their homes. He said that all buyer-taxpayers whose combined actual income was $4,000 or below would be entitled to deduct 100 per cent of their interest payments, the percentage of total interest payment which is deductible to be reduced by one per cent for every $1,000 of income in excess of $4,000. 
-My word. It is a far cry from the way in which those people were treated previously. I repeat that the Minister for Housing and Construction is to be congratulated on his brainchild- the modern housing techniques which he has introduced. He has set up the wherewithal to do so. I commend him for his efforts. I am sure that they are in the best interests of the people who are in the very near future are going to benefit from my Party's policies. 
I wish to direct my remarks specifically to what is necessary and desirable in an efficient retraining scheme. We can all try to make political points about various aspects of a training scheme, but I do not think any honourable member in this Parliament would disagree that the changes that have occurred in technology and the mode of production have caused retraining to become a fundamental part of our whole existence and projection in society. I think it is essential that we hark back. It is not a matter of talking about 23 years of mismanagement by the previous Government. I shall not refer to that at all. I ask honourable members to look at the facts and to be objective about what we have to do in the future. 
It was obvious a decade ago to anybody who had any knowledge about industry, training and related matters that people would change their occupation about 3 times in their working lives, no matter from where they came, unless they were born with a silver spoon in their mouth and were not going to be related to production and the necessary changes in the mode of production that I mentioned. Therfore it would have been necessary at that point to start a training scheme, particularly in the technical, professional and semi-professional areas where people have to be geared to change direction. A person in the electrical industry, for instance, would undergo a basic system of training, but perhaps after 3 years in the industry he might consider the possibility of moving into other areas. In the building industry the position may be the same. The industrial movement, including the Australian Council of Trade Unions and other industrial authorities, would have to be encouraged to accept responsibility in the area of adult training. That should have been done. 
We are suffering at the present moment as a result of inactivity in the area of retraining a decade ago. The responsibility for it rests with the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  and others who were involved in this area in the past. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  has to accept some responsibility too, because when he was Minister for Labor and National Service he received plenty of advice from organisations such as the Electrical Contractors Federation of Victoria, the Fibrous Plaster Manufacturers Association, the Housing Industry Association, the Meat and Allied Trades Federation of Australia, the Master Builders Association, the Master Plumbers Association, the Victorian Automobile Chamber of Commerce, the Victorian Chamber of Manufactures and- this is an organisation the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Macphee)  would know about- the Victorian Employers Federation. They gave advice to the effect that a system of training and retraining was required. 
Since the Labor Government ascended to the Treasury bench it has given effect at least to the philosophy of training and retraining. I agree that there are some fundamental difficulties about implementing such a scheme. Anybody who has any knowledge about it and who does not carry on Uke a yahoo and scream about the situation would clearly understand that we all have a responsibility. The Government, employers and industrial organisations, whether they be in the white collar or blue collar fields, have to co-operate to the ultimate to make such a system operate. I think I would have the support of the honourable member for Balaclava in this observation. I appeal to people to look at retraining schemes objectively. I ask them to look not for the blowflies in the scheme but at the positive and objective aspects of it. Plenty of information is available about such schemes as the training scheme for Aborigines, assistance to country apprentices and the CESAME scheme- the Commonwealth Employment Service Automated Memory Employment training scheme for people displaced by redundancy. It makes me wish that it was. 
We ought to commend the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  for the way in which he has gone about his task. The national employment training scheme has to be supported. In fact it is the only way, with refinements if necessary, to ensure that we do not have a pool of unemployed such as the 6 per cent permanent unemployment pool in the United States of America. Under the scheme people will be gainfully employed. Loopholes whereby people can exploit the system will be closed, but that is another question. The Minister will have all my co-operation in finding ways and means of stopping that. There are simple ways and means of doing it. But let us not go through all the rubbish that the shadow Minister for Labor, the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  puts up. He made a statement about a whole heap of things including the allowance of $93.44 a week, which is the weighted average award wage for a full week's work. A full week's training is defined as 20 hours a week for a number of applicants. The allowance is based on the average award wage and adjusted quarterly in accordance with any movements in the Statistician's figures. The reasons for this can be found in paragraphs 6.19 to 6.25 inclusive of the report of the Cochrane Committee of Inquiry into Labour Market Training. A full time course requires the trainees to be in training full time. This includes not only the formal hours of instruction- for example, lectures or supervised training sessions- but also study, practice etc. A part time course requires only intermittent attendance for formal training, and the allowance is  2i  per cent of the full time allowance. 
The honourable member for Wannon needs to clearly understand what he is talking about. He said that the NEAT scheme will cost some preposterous amount which he calculated on a whole host of information that is worthless.  His  calculation was based on the erroneous assumption that everyone who applies will be accepted under the NEAT scheme. He made no allowance for different training periods for various courses. It is not a matter of the simple application to which the honourable member refers in his Press statement. We have a long way to go. We have a long way to go, but it is no good screeching about reducing the number of staff in the Commonwealth Employment Service when you have this complication in endeavouring to come to grips with a scheme such as this. You have got to have sufficient people to interrelate the job vacancies with the people who are available for the jobs. 
You would not know anyway. You have never been unemployed in your life. 
We need the scheme and we need the people to carry it out. We do not need all this belly-aching about cutting back on public expenditure. What the honourable member is saying is that we need a scheme, we need to apply it properly, but we are not going to apply the wherewithal to give effect to it. What utter rubbish! The honourable member for Wannon says that the trade unions object to this scheme; they object to certain aspects of it. The reason they object to it is that people like the honourable member and other people like honourable member for Flinders  (Mr Lynch)  did not take the industrial movement along with them. If we had started at that point A and endeavoured to develop a scheme that was commensuate with changes in technology, commensurate with changes in the development of society and development in what is necessary in terms of cooperation, then at this point of time we would have a vastly different concept to give effect to a scheme that is absolutely necessary for the survivors of our work force if they are not going to degenerate into the situation that we see in other countries where the free market economy is allowed to run riot. We have got to organise it; we can organise it in a proper way, and the Opposition will learn to realise that what is inherent in this scheme is inherent in what is necessary to develop a proper industrial concept and to ensure that there is maximum co-operation between the Government and the trade unions and the employers. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Lucock)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
For the benefit of the House will the Minister for Services and Property state why the proposed redistribution of electorates has been approved, in order to correct the evident misleading statements by the Opposition in regard to these proposals? 
-My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Can he give the House any information about the implications of the Victorian Government's High Court challenge to the Australian Assistance Plan and the Regional Employment Development scheme? Is it a fact that this challenge threatens the constitutional basis of significant legislation enacted by past LiberalCountry Party governments in this Parliament? Is this another example of the way in which the Liberal Party of Australia is heading off in all directions for want of leadership at the federal level? 
-Over some period of time, and in particular during the past day or so, the attention of the House has been drawn to vicious articles appearing in the national Press discriminating against individuals, attempting to superimpose the viewpoint of the owners of the media on the people of this country, and applying that fundamental policy of not messing up a vile headline or a defamatory story by having any regard for the truth or the facts. The latest example of this breach of privilege is in line with a grave misrepresentation of an individual by one of the barons of the Press- an individual who, because he does not own his own television station or have extensive newspaper holdings, is deprived of the right of reply. 
The individual who has suffered this gross misrepresentation is a well known television actor whose character and integrity could never be called into question-  Mr Gerard  Kennedy. The perpetrator of the attack is that well-known baron of the media, an individual not worthy of wiping Gerard Kennedy's boots-  Mr Kerry  Packer. I draw the attention of the House to an article which appeared in the 'Australian' of 7 February. It was written by  Mr Kerry  Packer and is titled 'The End of Division 4'. In that article  Mr Packer  set out to destroy Gerard Kennedy's standing as a spokesman for the Australian television industry. Honourable members will be aware that  Mr Kennedy  has long been a fighter for Australian content on our television screens. He also has been one of the many individuals and organisations associated with that industry to welcome the Australian Labor Party's policy of 75 per cent Australian content, as announced at the Terrigal conference.  Mr Kennedy  also has been associated for some time with one of Australia's top-rating shows, 'Division 4'. 

 Mr Packer's Channel 9 network announced recently its intention of axing the 'Division 4' series despite its popularity. This decision provoked Gerard Kennedy to condemn the Channel 9 network for its contemptuous attitude to the Australian television industry. What has been  Mr Packer's  response to what would seem to be an eminently justifiable criticism? Firstly, he dismissed Gerard Kennedy's criticism as near libellous and demonstrably haywire'. On what basis did  Mr Packer  make this assertion? As is his usual custom he established it on the basis of a barefaced lie. Kerry Packer claimed that the reason 'Division 4' had been axed was Gerard Kennedy's decision to leave the series. This assertion is untrue and Packer well knows it. He publicly libelled an individual who lacks  Mr Packer's  easy access to the media and therefore lacks the opportunity to reply. 
I draw the attention of the House to another article which, like  Mr Packer's,  was submitted to the 'Australian' but, unlike  Mr Packer's,  this piece was not published. This is a letter which directly refutes Packer's lies about Kennedy's role in the decision to axe 'Division 4'. Since the letter has not been published I would like to quote from it. It states: 
I wish to join issue with  Mr Kerry  Packer's comments published in your issue of Friday, February 7 1973, under the heading 'End of Division 4' where he says  'Mr Kennedy  knows very well that he was told clearly by me, as was  Mr Crawford,  that if he, Kennedy, left, the series would be terminated. 
In other words, he would be the architect of Division 4's destruction'. 
This statement is incorrect. The position, as  Mr Packer  was fully aware, was that the question of Gerard Kennedy's participation in the show was thrashed out and agreement was reached between  Mr Packer  and his network, Crawford Productions Pty Ltd, and Gerard Kennedy that Gerard Kennedy would appear in 13 episodes of Division 4' in 1975. The network also was advised that his place would be taken by John Stanton. These agreements having been reached, I understand that an agreement was then concluded in writing between  Mr Packer's  Channel 9 network and Crawford Productions for the production in 1975, commencing on 20 January 1975, of 47 episodes of the program 'Division 4'. That letter was submitted by  Mr Vic  Arnold, the State Secretary of Actors ' Equity. 
Simultaneously with the conclusion of the agreement a side letter forming part of the agreement was given by  Mr Packer's  General Television Corporation to  Mr Hector  Crawford which confirms the position of the 2 actors, Gerard Kennedy and John Stanton. I will quote the letter that was sent to Crawford Productions. It states: 
The company is aware that  Mr Gerard  Kennedy will not be available for his sustaining role beyond episode 13 and that his place will be taken by  Mr John  Stanton. 
That letter was signed by L. A. Mauger, Managing Director of the Channel 9 network, yet it was never published. Packer's lying hypocrisy is left free to damage Gerard Kennedy's reputation, lies that he is not given the opportunity to refute. But it is  Mr Kerry  Packer who goes on to bleat about freedom of choice. This whole affair does raise serious questions of freedom of choice; questions of the freedom of the media. What right has  Mr Packer  by the happy accident of his birth to dictate what Australians shall or shall not watch? This is not the first time that the Packer organisation has been found misusing its power and control over the media. In November 1973, another prominent media identity, suggested that  Mr Kerry  Packer's father,  Sir Frank  Packer, was misusing his responsibility in the running of the Nine network. It was suggested that Packer should not attempt to run a television channel like a newspaper because the air waves were publicly owned; that the television channels had a responsibility not to ram their own viewpoint down the public's throat. Who made these criticisms? None other than Kerry Packer's brother, Clyde Packer. The remarks were made after  Sir Frank  Packer had decreed that on no account was Bob Hawke to appear on Channel 9, Bob Hawke who, in his capacity as  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions and of the Australian Labor Party, represents two of the largest groups of people in this country. The reason Packer gave for the ban was that Hawke was too good for Channel Nine 's interviewers. 
I find it incredible that the elected representative of the two largest organisations in Australia should be denied any chance to put his views to the public simply because the owner of a station licence is opposed to those views. Is this the kind of freedom of choice  Mr Kerry  Packer is so concerned to protect, the freedom of the Packer dynasty to mould public opinion to its own purposes? What right does Kerry Packer have to appear on his own television station to, in the words of the interviewer, Gerald Stone, 'tell us specifically what is going to be wrong with this 75 per cent'? To tell us what is going to be wrong mark you. That is the dictate of the people who control the media. There was no suggestion of discussing the issue or of presenting a balanced view of the controversy since no one had been invited on the program to present the Australian Labor Party's policy but to tell us what is wrong. The issue will be completely ignored. Is this the freedom of the Press? I suggest that Kerry Packer has shown himself to be an unsuitable person to possess a television licence. I suggest that there be an immediate inquiry into the use of the media by private individuals to force their particular views and opinions on the public. In a democracy it is vital that we should have a diversity of sources of information and opinion. In a democracy it is vital that the media should not be in the hands of a small number of rich and powerful men. We need an inquiry to determine how we can ensure the freedom of the media, free from the arbitrary control of the few to distort and slant information to their own purposes. Those honourable members who feel I am overstating the case are invited to observe the treatment this speech receives at the hands of the media. 
I rise to support the Family Law Bill. Very few Bills can have come before this Parliament in relation to which the issues have been so well understood by the ordinary man in the street, but we are dealing here with the subject of marriage and the pressures which arise within it. The vast majority of Australians have had personal experience of the marriage relationship. I venture to say that almost all of those who have not been through the mill of the divorce courts are acquainted with somebody who has and thus are aware of all of the problems, the humiliations and the legal excesses which attend the present legislation. 
My main concern in rising is to speak against the amendment proposed by the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart).  The Minister calls this legislation the most discriminatory, ill considered and badly drafted legislation ever to be introduced into the Parliament. No doubt the examples of bad drafting to which the Minister refers can be examined during the Committee stage, but I can hardly accept his proposition that the Bill is ill considered. On 18 March 1972- almost 3 years ago, before this Government came to office- advertisements appeared in the Australian Press asking interested persons and bodies to lodge submissions with the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. The recommendations of that Committee and the recommendations of other bodies have all been debated in another place. Three separate Bills have been introduced, and in its final form the Bill contains approximately 138 amendments resulting from representations made by interested parties. It is now the suggestionthis is really the purpose of the Minister's amendment- that further delay should take place to enable, it is said, further consideraton to be given to the legislation. 
My view is completely opposite to that of the Minister in relation to his allegations of discrimination in the legislation. I shall deal with that point when dealing with the Minister's proposed amendment. Let me say, first of all, that the amendment as drafted displays some considerable skill in the game of tacking because it tries to force its opponents to vote against the first six principles it contains in order to vote against the seventh. One would have thought that tacking had long gone from parliamentary practice in this country and indeed that its worst excesses would have vanished with the operation of section 55 of our Constitution. No one in this House wants to vote against motherhood or to vote in favour of sin, but that is almost the position into which we are being put if we vote against the first six principles outlined in the Minister's amendment. 
I suppose that the restatement of those principles is quite unnecessary. They are already included in the Bill or in other legislation. The first principle which the Minister wants the Bill to include is that the family is the basic and stable unit of Australian society. I would remind the Minister that Article  23(1)  of the United Nations Comvention on Civil and Political Rights, to which Australia is a signatory, reads: 
The family is a natural and fundamental group unit of society and is entitled to protection by society and by the State. 
The Convention goes on further to state: 
Parties to the present Covenant shall take appropriate steps to ensure equality of rights and responsibilities of spouses as to marriage, during marriage and at its dissolution. In the case of dissolution, provision shall be made for the necessary protection of any children. 
The Human Rights Bill, which is to be considered by the Parliament as government legislation,  explicitly recognises the right io many  and found a family, and protects the family against unlawful or arbitrary interference. The Minister has not been heard to raise his voice against that legislation. I sincerely hope that he does not do so in the future. The Family Law Bill now before us, does no more than seek to carry out our obligations under the United Nations Covenant. 
The next three principles with which I wish to deal are those which the Minister apparently believes are necessary to avoid discrimination. They are, firstly, that full and proper recognition be given to the status and rights of a woman as wife and mother; secondly, that there should be full and proper protection of the wife and children in the event of the dissolution of a marriage; and, thirdly and lastly, but not least, that there is need for children to be reared and cared for by a present parent. I must confess that the last of these baffles me. I have not found in the Bill, nor have I heard from any honourable member, any suggestion that children will be forcibly taken away from their parents, although I accept that there may be now, and no doubt will be in the future, those rare and terrible circumstances in which a child must be separated from its parents for its own safety. 
Let me return to the question of discrimination. I refer opponents of the Bill to the extensive provisions for custody, maintenance and the disposal of property. I find in this Bill a code which will be common to all States of Australia and which takes pains to protect the rights of wives. If there are defects in individual clauses, those clauses may well be varied in the Committee stage. I suggest that the Minister's claim of discrimination against wives cannot be supported. At least one eloquent body on women's rights, the Women's Electoral Lobby- an organisation whose members are never slow to find themselves discriminated against- has now stated emphatically that discrimination does not exist in the Bill. That organisation certainly prefers this proposed legislation to that which now exists. 
I turn now to the  3  proposals in the amendment which are at the heart of the opposition to this Bill. They are that marriage should be buttressed; that marriage should be permanent and secure; and that marriage should be dissolved only when a court is satisfied on objective grounds that the marriage has irretrievably broken down or that the parties have lived separately and apart for not less than  2  years. It seems to me that speakers in support of this amendment are trying to say, firstly, that marriage must be buttressed to the extent that it is permanent and, secondly, that, failing that, its dissolution should be a matter of the utmost difficulty, almost enforcing by law that the parties remain married. 
I accept the description of a good divorce law which was enunciated by the English Law Commission in the publication entitled ' Reform of the Grounds of Divorce: The Field of Choice', which states: 
A good divorce law should seek to achieve the following objectives: 
To buttress, rather than to undermine, the stability of marriage; and 
When, regrettably, a marriage has irretrievably broken down, to enable the empty legal shell to be destroyed with the maximum fairness and the minimum bitterness, distress and humiliation. 
The second objective has 2 facets. First the law should make it possible to dissolve the legal tie once that has become irretrievably broken in fact. If the marriage is dead, the object of the law should be to afford it a decent burial. Secondly, it should achieve this in a way that is just to all concerned, including the children as well as the spouses, and which causes them the minimum of embarrassment and humiliation. Above all it should seek to take the heat out of disputes between husband and wife and certainly not further embitter the relationships between them or between them and their children. It should not merely bury the marriage, but do so with decency and dignity and in a way which will encourage harmonious relationships between the parties and their children in the future. 
It may be regrettable in the eyes of some sincere persons that our society has moved from the position where marriage is indissoluble and binding for life whatever the misery that may arise, but we are no longer concerned with the question of 'divorce or no divorce'. Rather are we concerned with the question of what is the best way of handling divorce. To buttress marriage by keeping divorce fault orientated does no more than turn the clock back to the 19th century, a situation which is simply not acceptable to the great mass of the Australian people. Let me make it clear that, in saying that, I recognise that the institution of marriage is fundamental to our society. I am informed that statistics have been quoted in another place to show that marriage is becoming even more popular; that, although divorce rates are rising, approximately 75 per cent of those who are divorced marry again and settle down to a long married life. I believe that this Bill helps that situation and meets all the requirements of a good divorce law as expressed by the English Law Commission. 
I want to turn now to the question of an objective test for breakdown of marriage. If I understand the difference between an objective and a subjective test correctly, the objective test measures facts as they exist in a particular case against some rigid set of rules, without regard to the special circumstances surrounding the particular case, whilst the subjective test takes into account the particular circumstances and, more particularly, the impossibility of some people to meet absolute standards. This Bill in some measure prescribes an objective test. It states that a marriage has broken down if the parties have lived apart for 12 months, without regard to any circumstances. The discretion that exists is not to find irretrievable breakdown if there is a possibility of a reconciliation. We all know of cases where marriages have broken down even if they have not involved committing one of the socalled matrimonial offences in section 28 of the present Matrimonial Causes Act. 
Desertion and cruelty are the esoteric area of lawyers. I am informed by lawyers that not all sexual relations constitute adultry and that even more complicated law follows allegations of sodomy. To prove matrimonial offences brings bitterness and humiliation, it leaves a guilty party, when the matrimonial offences are usually only a symptom that the marriage has broken downthe effect rather than the cause. Opponents of the Bill also claim that the whole basis of the legislation has been changed in that a divorce may be obtained by one party without the consent or even against the will of the other. I remind those speakers who claim that the introduction of 'nofault' is a fundamental change, that even under the present law that situation obtains in 3 cases: firstly, if one of the parties is of unsound mind; secondly, if one of the parties has been absent for such time and in such circumstances as to provide reasonable grounds for presuming death; and, thirdly, the well known and used no fault ground of separation for 5 years. That is the magical period of time. 
The question really becomes a matter of one or two years, if it is examined minutely. If a marriage has broken down, any extension of the period can only prolong the agony. I recognise that there is room for argument that 2 years is more appropriate than one, but the one-year period is favoured by the majority of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. It is the period favoured by the special committee of the Law Council of Australia, it is the period favoured by the Australian Council of Marriage Guidance Associations. This is known publicly. The former AttorneyGeneral gave the information to the Senate which is recorded at page 2846 of Hansard of 27 November. I have yet to hear a single valid argument in favour of the 2-year period- only vague fears that are no more than another delaying tactic. 
The allegation frequently heard in this chamber, that after this Bill passes women will lose their rights to maintenance and will be forced to support themselves, is arrant nonsense and a total misrepresentation of the facts. At present if a husband is able to prove that his wife has committed a matrimonial offence she may be disentitled from obtaining a maintenance order in respect of herself whether or not she is employed solely in the care of the children of the marriage and has no private income of her own. Thirty-two per cent of women who are divorced presently fall within that category. She does, of course, obtain maintenance orders in respect of the children in her care, but on their attaining the age of 1 6 years or a further order of the court that maintenance may then cease and she may be left at an advanced age with no income save pension entitlements or income from her own personal exertions. On the other hand, this Bill provides that husband or wife may be liable to support the other, and the criteria used are need and capacity to pay rather than the fault which in the majority of cases is artificial. In fact both parties in the main contribute, sometimes unconsciously, to the breakdown of the marriage and then, but only then, does one spouse commit a matrimonial offence such as to entitle the other to sue for divorce. 
It is quite inaccurate to say, as did the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley),  that a man earning $500 a week could force his divorced wife to live on maintenance from the husband of $5 a week plus a government pension. The Bill quite specifically provides in clause 75, and in particular clauses (c), (d), (e), (j), (b) and (n), that inter alia all aspects of the parties' financial resources are considered and standards of living of all parties are taken into account, so that if the husband's earnings and resources are far superior to those of the wife she will be supported adequately by way of maintenance payments at a standard appropriate to a divorced wife of a man earning $500 each week, assuming he can show that he is not capable of earning more. 
Some women have been manipulating the present system by refusing to remarry, although living in a de facto situation, because if the women did remarry they would lose their entitlement to maintenance payments from their former spouses. Clause 75(1) provides that if a spouse is cohabiting with a person other than the former marriage partner the financial situation of the cohabitation is taken into account, and although the spouse may still be ordered to pay maintenance to the former partner while he or she cohabits with another person, the burden of the payment will be reduced. Surely it is in the community's best interests that parties to a marriage which has been dissolved conduct themselves honourably and that one is. not forever burdened with a substantial maintenance order in favour of the other who has formed a permanent relationship with some other person but who refuses to remarry on the ground that it may be less economically advantageous to do so or, what is worse, out of spite. That situation is not uncommon at present and causes blatant injustice of such a magnitude that we ought not to allow it to continue further. 
There is no provision anywhere in this Bill, however it is construed, which would force a working class wife, with children under 18 years of age, to work in order to support herself or to live solely on the pension, provided her spouse is employed and earns sufficient income to enable him to contribute to the family's support. It must be clearly understood that many women prefer the security of a pension to the tremendous uncertainty of maintenance payments from a spouse. At present in a great number of cases where maintenance orders are made the other spouse cannot be found, he is in arrears with maintenance payments or absolutely refuses to obtain employment. In those cases the maintenance orders are just an expensive academic experience on the wife's part. Working class women will receive greater protection than those with education and training as they are less able to assist themselves, because work in unskilled employment for a small remuneration may not permit them to obtain adequate paid childminding facilities. By the same token, a female doctor, for example, would not be forced to work if she chose to remain within the house to care for the children, but she would be expected to work when the youngest child attained 18 years of age, provided that the woman's age and state of health enabled her to do so. 
Women on the whole are more protected than they have ever been, and the emotive mouthings to the contrary are deliberate falsehoods to arouse uninformed public opinion to further the ends of those who seek to impose their views on the community by the use of all possible means, legitimate and illegitimate. My main concern in speaking against the amendment is, as I indicated, that in the first instance we should take into account that this Bill will be in the best interests of the majority. This Bill is a humane and important piece of legislation. It is the first real examination that this House has made of divorce since the passage of the Matrimonial Causes Act of 1959. I appeal to honourable members to look at this legislation and ask themselves whether it will improve the lot of society. In my view it will contribute to the dignity and security of life in Australia and give needed assurance to the children of the participants of the marriage that has failed. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. Just prior to the luncheon adjournment there was, as I understand it, a division at or about 1 p.m. I was in a senator's office from about 20 minutes - (Opposition members interjecting) 
I crave your indulgence,  Mr Speaker,  in respect of those yahoos over, in the Australian Country Party corner. The explanation is that - 
Opposition members- He was caught with his pants down. 
I rise to support this Bill, which I regard as being one of the great legislative milestones of the House. It is a Bill that seeks to enact our firm intention to confront the evil of racism. I believe that we ought to realise just to what extent racism exists in Australia. I am very happy to hear Opposition speakers say that they accept the fact that racism reigns supreme in this country. 
If the honourable member for Warringah did not say it, I will say it. That is just another example of the sorts of things one comes to expect from members of the Opposition. They say all sorts of things and make flowery speeches and then move away from the real issues at stake. I will tell you what are the real issues. They are things for which you stand condemned. 
Is the Minister for Social Security aware of the resolution passed at the Bendigo Conference of the Australian Natives Association which stated that the Association would cooperate fully with the Australian Government in order to ensure a speedy and efficient introduction of Medibank? Having regard to previous published statements does the Minister see this as a change of heart and a trend involving other similar organisations which will assist in the long overdue introduction of Medibank? 
-Order! The Minister is referring to amendments that have not been moved as yet. 
-The matter that I would like to refer to tonight is the result of a by-election in Victoria that had rather significant aspects to it, and I would like to point out to honourable members the implications of that decisive win in the Brunswick East by-election. It was significant and decisive. It was significant because of the fact that the Premier of the State  (Mr Hamer),  who has offered himself as the new Messiah, strutted around the electorate of Brunswick East, walking into hotels with not much money but pretending to shout for the bar. He had a picture of his head on a how-to-vote ticket, and one would have thought it would have been a great blow to his ego to see the result. There was a win, which puts paid to the hysterical rantings against the Australian Government's policies, and in particular the Medibank scheme. The Brunswick by-election was fought and won on Government policy, with a great deal of stress placed on the Medibank issue. 
The people of Brunswick have made it very clear that they want the Medibank scheme and that they reject the nit-picking obstructionism of 'Rupert' Hamer and his unprincipled cohortsthe Liberal Premier who blights the Australian eastern coastline. Medibank is a winner, and in saying this I in no way detract from the exceptionally able candidate in the Brunswick East byelection,  Mr Ron  McAlister. From the outset in the campaign,  Mr McAlister  and the Victorian State Labor Leader Clyde Holding issued the challenge to Hamer and his Minister for illhealth Scanlan- to debate this vital issue in a public debate. The challenge was reiterated last Saturday night, and at the present time neither  Mr Holding  nor  Mr McAlister  has received any reply to the challenge. But this is not the first time that Hamer and Scanlan have shown themselves unwilling to discuss the Medibank issue. It was pointed out to the electors of Brunswick that letters were sent to both Scanlan and Hamer in August 1974 from both the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden),  requesting urgent discussions on the Medibank issue- urgent discussions, because  Mr Hamer  estimated it would require at least four and possibly six months hard work to gear the system for the introduction of Medibank by 1 July. 
-That is right.  Mr Hamer  estimated it would take that long to prepare the Victorian health scheme so the people of Victoria could obtain the maximum possible benefit from the scheme. The honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Fisher)  and the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King)  will not be here much longer, but whilst they are here they had better try to explain to the people of Victoria just how that came about. By March 1975 the Australian Government had received only a formal acknowledgment from  Mr Hamer  of the Prime Minister's letter, and there was no recognition whatsoever of the letter from  Mr Hayden  to  Mr Scanlan.  Yet these two charlatans- Hamer and Scanlan- bleated throughout the Brunswick campaign that they had not had the time or the opportunity to consider the details of the scheme. The people of Brunswick East showed in no uncertain terms what they think of  Mr Hamer  's obstructionism. They showed that at the polls last Saturday, and members on the other side of this House could expect the same result in whatever election was held, either now or in the future. The electors of Brunswick East were shocked to find that their State Government was bending over backwards to make them pay an additional $2 a week for a hospital cover that would be free if the Victorian State Government was prepared to enter the Medibank scheme. They were even more outraged to find that the State Government had failed to take up a federal offer to meet half the State's hospital costs- 50 per cent of the bill, no matter how high it was. At this time- and we all know something about this- the nurses of Victoria are waging a totally justifiable campaign for decent wages and conditions, a campaign that I wholeheartedly support. In the face of this campaign, the Victorian Government is rejecting financial assistance that would give the nurses the conditions to which they are more than entitled. And why is the Victorian Government rejecting this federal assistance? For no other reason than their own petty parochial refusal to have anything to do with the forward-looking policies of the Australian Government. They do not care about the people of Victoria. They are more interested in playing politics and in having tricky Dicky parade himself around the Victorian scene, taking the Victorian people for a ride. But apparently time has worn the veil very thin. At last he has been exposed as the phoney that he is. As I have indicated, he is more interested in playing politics than in looking after the health of the Victorian electors. Well, the electors of Brunswick have shown what they think of Liberal obstructionism. They have seen an exhibition in this place the like of which has never been seen before and will never be seen again. I say now that the electors of Australia will return the same verdict at any time they are called to the polls. 
I will not take up any more time of the House, except to say that the people of Australia have twice voted federally for Medibank. They voted again for it last Saturday. They want Medibank and they can be assured that the Australian Government is dedicated to giving it to them and that they will be the recipients of the benefits of Medibank in the very near future. 
-Has the Attorney-General learned of a statement made yesterday by the Victorian Attorney-General,  Mr Wilcox,  in which he suggested that the Australian Government has failed to honour its obligations to provide $307,000 to the Victorian State Government for the Legal Aid Service. Can the Attorney-General inform the House of the circumstances under which that assistance was promised and would be forthcoming? 
-I ask the Minister to withdraw. 
My Minister for Minerals and Energy and Minister for the Environment and Conservation have now recommended, and I have agreed, that in future, when seeking approval for export contracts for these minerals - 
The minerals are named-  derived from new sand mining ventures, the precise source from which the mineral is to be obtained should be stated together with full information concerning the environmental considerations and safeguards that have been submitted to our colleagues the Ministers for the Environment. 
In effect, this means that my Government will expect future applications - 
I stress the words' future applications'-  for approval of export contracts for new ventures - 
I stress the word 'new '-  for these minerals to be accompanied by an identification of the precise source of the mineral and by evidence that the environmental consequences of the mining operations have been studied and found to be satisfactory. Insofar as this might require the preparation of environmental impact statements for submission jointly to the appropriate State and Australian Government Departments concerned, I suggest that this specific matter be referred to our respective Environment Ministers at the meeting which we agreed at our Conference on 7 June should take place shortly. No doubt you will wish to refer this matter to your Minister for Mines in order that his views may be available to your Environment Minister prior to the proposed Conference. 
Being faced with an application from these people, knowing their long standing rights and knowing the relatively stringent conditions which the Queensland Government was imposing I was faced with the situation as to what I ought reasonably and fairly to do. I wrote to the Prime Minister and put the situation to him. My letter was dated 20 November- a copy of which the honourable member for Gwydir somehow obtained- and it stated: 
An application has been made by DM Minerals, a partnership consisting of Dillingham Constructions Pty Ltd and Murphyores Inc. Pty Ltd for approval of an export contract covering mineral sands that will be produced on Fraser Island, Queensland. While representations have been made by environmentalists against sand mining on Fraser Island, I bring to your notice that, in my judgment, it would be inappropriate to take action which would prevent this particular project from going ahead on mining leases already granted. Accordingly I propose to approve the export contract. 
You will recall that you wrote to the Premiers of Queensland, New South Wales and Western Australia on 9 July last regarding the environmental aspects of mineral sands mining. In your letter you referred to procedures recommended by  Dr Cass  and I, to which you agreed, with regard to future applications for approval of export contracts covering mineral sands derived from new sand mining ventures. 
The application by DM Minerals relates to mineral sands to be produced from mining leases that were granted before you wrote to the Premiers. I am informed that mining leases had been granted on 10 April and 23 August 1 973, following which, in January 1974, the partners announced details of  the  venture. 
No blow-ins, no fly by nights. 
Further mining leases were granted on 13 June and 4 July 1974. These are dates whenlease documents were issued and conditions of mining set down. However the areas concerned had been covered by authorities to prospect granted during 1961 and 1962 . . . By July this year the parties had outlaid substantial funds on the project and had also advanced their negotiations for the ultimate export of the mineral sands. 
The letter then goes on to cite the terms of the leases to which I have referred. The final paragraphstates: 
From the above you will appreciate that the project had been launched prior to your writing to the Premiers and that the State Government has imposed obligations on the partners to rehabilitate mined areas. Through my Department we would take steps, in granting export licences, to maintain a continuous scrutiny of the partners' operations to ensure that they are living up to their obligations. 
I assure the House and the people of Australiaincluding the fair minded conversationists- that we will thoroughly, systematically and persistently scrutinise the terms under which and the way in which these people mine the respective areas. In reply, I received a letter from the Prime Minister dated 26 November. It states: 
I refer to your letter of 20 November concerning the application for approval of  an  export contract by DM Minerals, to cover mineral sands to be produced from Fraser Island, Queensland. 
I have noted your comments on the advanced stage in planning and expenditure which the company have reached before the date of my letters of 9 July to the Premiers of Queensland, New South Wales and Western Australia, and  on  the steps being taken to ensure protection of the environment. In these circumstances I agree with your proposal to grant approval. 
I  do  think that  we  should ensure that your decision and the reasons for it are given early and appropriate publicity . . . (Extension of time granted). The actual contract was presented on 13 September. It was vetted and found to be satisfactory. Its terms as to price, delivery date and the like, are naturally confidential. But this can be said: Once a contract is approved it follows that export permits will be granted if as and when the necessary production follows. That will be done. But if, by any chance, it is found that this consortium is not adhering to the terms of its contract there will be no doubt as to what action will be taken by me. In that, I shall expect and receive the assistance of my colleague the Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass). 
-I call the honourable member for Bendigo. 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Mr Hunt's)  be agreed to. 
-Order! It being 12.45 p.m. the time allotted for precedence to general business has expired. The honourable member for Mackellar will have leave to continue his speech when the debate is resumed. The resumption of the debate will be an order of the day under general business for the next sitting. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering these 4 measures? I will allow that course to be followed. 
-Order! A number of points of order have been taken in relation to the ambit of the discussion on this Bill. I think the honourable member is getting away from the Bill, which is pretty narrow. It is confined to the appointment of a further member of the Commission. 
Earlier this year the honourable member for Bruce  (Mr Snedden),  who was then the Leader of the Opposition, was uncommonly generous in saying that the Liberal Party, if it were elected to office, would give $100m to local government over a 3-year period. I think it is symptomatic of his political ineptness that he apparently was not aware that the Labor Government gave $56m to local government in one year, without any strings attached. The fact that this Government is seeking to amend the Act to increase the number of commissioners to carry out the work in the local government division of the Commission is evidence of the Labor Party's continuing commitment to the upgrading of local government in Australia so that local government can carry out its functions in a meaningful way and provide genuine services to the community. I wonder whether the new Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  will advocate, as did his prede..cessor cutting back on Commonwealth funds to local government in order to facilitate his much vaunted proposals for increases in expenditure on defence. I assure the House that this is not the intention of the Labor Party, as is evidenced by the introduction of this Bill. I commend the Bill to the House. 
I rise to support the legislation. 
I thought the honourable member would be. The issue here is clear. I think that the brevity of the speech of the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)  is indicative of the fact that he probably never read the speech of the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen).  He gave it very poor support in the submission that he put. In speaking in support of this Bill I indicate it has to be recognised that the history of the past decade or so will show clearly that the accent in the television industry in this country has been on higher profits for the owners and controllers of the television media. This has led to the general deterioration of Australian content in the majority of the areas of entertainment. There has also been exploitation of the media market by overseas film producers, as is exemplified by the not so sophisticated dumping processes undertaken by American interests. We can find some proof of this by looking at the cost of production of American television programs which are shown on the television networks in this country, comparing that cost with the prices that are paid by the owners of the television media in this country, and then analysing the reasons. 
It is clear that the programs are dumped here in an attempt to destroy the Australian film industry. Little or nothing is done about it by the people who hold the whip hand in this field. Whilst the honourable member for Kooyong says that there is a power in the present Act, all the members of the legal luminary have an alternative opinion. However, if it is, as the honourable member suggests, if the power does not reside in the Australian Broadcasting Control Board to carry out the philosophy of the Act, then all the Bill does is to provide that power. The authority contained in this legislation which has been regarded as harsh and oppressive is most fair and reasonable when it is compared with overseas legislation such as United Kingdom legislation. 
This legislation calls on an individual who holds a television licence to carry very heavily the responsibility to act in a proper way. The track record of these people in this country is not all that good. 
Let us compare the cost of an Australian production with the cost of an overseas production. The Australian produced program 'Homicide' costs $36,000 an hour to produce, and that is only for film. If it involves film and an integrated video production, the cost is about $30,000. That cost has been pruned having regard to the levels of employment in the industry. Let me compare the cost of an American produced program. The program 'Mission Impossible' is produced at a cost of $250,000 an hour. That program which costs $250,000 an hour to produce, has already run its life on the American circuit. It costs approximately $200 to sell that program in Australia for a re-run, but it is sold in this country for its first run at a cost of $4,500 and for the second run at a cost of $2,500. The same producers, the same monopolies which control the film industry in America, rip off about $50m from the film industry when they sell their product to the cinemas throughout Australia. It is the same people who produce these programs. Sure, they can afford to sell their products at that price. They sell them for the purpose of destroying the Australian film industry, aided and abetted by some of the paragons of virtue to whom the honourable member for Kooyong and others from the Opposition side run very quickly in defence. 
I challenge honourable members opposite to look at the other side of this question; look at what this means to Australian actors, the workers in the industry and the people of Australia. 
They are going out of work because the individuals whom the honourable member defends are supporting the attitude of the American producers who participate in dumping programs on the Australian market. The original proposition that was considered in another place was designed to put beyond question whether or not the Broadcasting Control Board did have the power to which the honourable member for Kooyong referred to carry out and exercise its functions under the existing Act. It has been argued that the Act has certain deficiencies that precludes the Board from carrying out its obligations to the people of this country, that is, to ensure that the privileges granted to licensees of radio and television stations are subject to regulation by the Government or Government bodies in the public interest. It is sheer humbug to suggest that this legislation will be dictatorial. On the contrary, it will release the stranglehold that people like the Fairfaxes, the Packers and the Ansetts have on the commercial television network at this point in time- the people who dictate' to the viewers of this country what they will see on commercial television. These people do this with a total disregard for the Australian television and film industry. They just could not care less whether workers in the industry survive while- as I have indicated before- they themselves rip off millions of dollars and exploit the consumers of this country in concert with the barons of the American film industry through agents like our friend  Mr Valenti. 
We have to consider whether the existing legislation has succeeded. Have the commercial television controllers played the game? Has the viewing public had a fair go in watching a range of first-class programs of their choice? Some of the programs that are shown on the television screen are absolutely deplorable. When we look at children's programs that are allowed to be shown time and time again we ought to hang our heads in shame. We particularly have to consider whether there has been any real attempt to protect the Australian artists, writers, musicians, actors and technicians. We have to consider whether there has been any attempt to promote Australian talent and to maintain our own Australian culture in music We have to hear programs and watch documentaries which reflect the real beauty of our country. As I said, I think the real test has to be whether or not by any standards it can be regarded as being harsh and repressive. So often what we see and hear is a lot of rubbish. 
I move to certain aspects of history of the British Broadcasting Corporation. Until 1954 the Corporation enjoyed a monopoly of British television. Then a 2-tier structure was developed. It controlled the method by which productions reached the viewer. If the establishment of that sort of authority were provided for in this Bill- it is not but I wish it were- I would agree with the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)  that there would not be any worry about introducing this legislation. If the Australian Broadcasting Control Board were to have some semblance of control over whether or not a program should be shown, that would be the end of it. That has been the experience on the British scene. .  Mr Katter-  That is not right. 
-Isn't it? The history of the industry in the United Kingdom has shown clearly that the promotion of Australian content ought to be reflected in our legislation. We should ensure the encouragement of Australian talent, of a greater participation by Australians, and a maximum of Australian content. A local content of approximately 80 per cent was achieved in the United Kingdom and the standard of television production reached a level that was competitive with the best of the American productions. We have seen some evidence of this happening in Australia. Let us have a further look at the track record of our friends who now control the media. 
Yes. Let us look at some of the attempts to whitewash the issues. We can reflect on what happened in 1974, when the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  gave every encouragement to the television stations to play the game and to use a system which would enable Australian content to be maximised to the extent to which resources permitted. In 1974 the level of Australian production did rise. If we look at the average yearly amount of time per station devoted to Australian programs from 1968 onwards, we Will see that in 1968 2050 hours were devoted to Australian programs and this situation improved in the following 4 years to 2250 hours. The figures increased sharply then to 2428 hours in 1973 and 2435 in 1974. But during 1974 material was accumulated for use in 1975. As a result, the figures for Aus.tralian drama, variety, current affairs and other programs have dropped. The cancellations can be seen clearly by the record. We are dissatisfied and the people in the industry are dissatisfied, and something needs to be done to correct the situation. 
If the Opposition members continue to obstruct, as they have over the last 2 or 3 years, and allow people in the television industry to be subjected to the pressures of the commercial stations and so destroy Australian content, we Will have to adopt other measures. An attempt is being made to cripple the industry and to use aU the pressures that can be applied within the current interpretation of the Act. If the Opposition destroys this Bill in the other place, I would be an advocate for going out and declaring them on. 
There is only one way in which to protect the television industry and that is by applying quotas, because the people who are running the organisations now could not lie straight in bed. So the legislation is necessary. If the Opposition were half fair dinkum it would support the Bill. But I know it has succumbed to the pressures of the moguls of the Press and I am sure that the honourable member for Kooyong, running true to form, ultimately Will vote against the BUI, as he has indicated. Nevertheless, right will prevail and, in the final analysis, the Bill will provide the teeth that are necessary to protect the industry generally and the Australian workers in the industry in particular. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering both measures? As there is agreement, I will allow that course to be followed. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question which is directed to the Treasurer relates to the operation of section 13 of the Income Tax Assessment Act insofar as it applies to film companies which are controlled from abroad. As I understand the provisions of that section, any business which is controlled principally by non-residents and which produces no taxable income or an amount of income which is less than might be expected, the Commissioner of Taxation determines the proper amount of taxable income and levies tax thereon. The special provisions appear to film businesses which are controlled from abroad. Of the gross income derived 10 per cent is taxed and that gross income - 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 

<graphic href="095131197505212_26_0.jpg"></graphic>

-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. Is the motion seconded? 
I rise in the adjournment debate in an attempt to put the record straight and to answer some of the bigoted ranting and raving of the Opposition, in particular the members of the National Country Party. Judging by the company they keep, they could quite properly be described as members of the National Civic Council party. Whenever progressive policies are projected by the Government in this House to give effect to the mandate that was obtained from the people in 1972 and 1974, the scream of 'socialism 'is heard in practically every speech from Opposition members, who are devoid of any objective argument and dedicated to carrying out the philosophy of organisations such as the National Civic Council, the League of Rights, the White Australia Committee and other sectional interests. These organisations, judging by the Opposition speeches and the utterances of Opposition members, dominate the policies of the Opposition. If these organisations do not already control the Opposition in due time they will do so. 
Evidence of the associations to which I have made reference is freely available. An example of the unholy alliance is contained in an article which appeared recently in a Gippsland newspaper. The headline reads: 
Bishop, MHR, Patrons of Anti-Red Talk. 
The article states: 
The Bishop of Sale, the Most Reverend A. F. Fox, and  Mr Peter  Nixon, MHR, are joint patrons of a dinner to be addressed by  Mr B.  A. Santamaria in Sale. 
A limited 1 50 invitations have been issued to the dinner to be held at Armadale on Monday evening, June 2. 
Amongst other things, the article goes on to make reference to a suggestion that in Australia a group of communist controlled unions had proved that they were stronger than the Australian Council of Trades Union and Federal and State governments. The last paragraph states: 
The 19-member sponsoring committee, which is acting on behalf of the National Civic Council is headed by  Dr Bill  Barry as  chairman. 
This is not the only such meeting. This sort of function is being held throughout the length and breadth of Australia. The honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Fisher)  held a meeting in the Mallee area. I cannot recall the name of the town. I saw an invitation to attend that meeting, along the same lines as those in the article. As I indicated, this sort of meeting is being held throughout the whole of Australia, and I want to draw attention to such meetings. 

 Mr Santamaria, of course, is a dedicated clerical fascist. He is the individual who has led the National Civic Council in Australia and has been involved in the conquest by stealth for the last 40 years. All those people who point their fingers at other people ought to have a look in their own neck of the woods.  Mr Santamaria  formed the group known as 'The Movement', allegedly to combat communist influence in the trade union movement and in the Australian Labor Party. By 1946 he really had a going concern. Let me refer to a union about which I know something and in which I was involved. In 1953  Mr Santamaria  took time out to organise groups in an endeavour to control the Electrical Trades Union in an effort to defeat communist candidates. After a number of communist candidates were defeated- I defeated one of them- another ticket was arranged by the local group representing the Santamaria organisation which tried to unload everyone else, and went within a hair's breadth of doing it. 
In 1969 there was a repeat performance. Two individuals opposing the officers of the union spent about $7,000 in distributing material. They would not have had 7000  Mintie  wrappers between them. It was proved in evidence later that they obtained support from the National Civic Council. The same thing happened in other areas and in government departments. I viewed with disgust the way in which  Dr Mannix, Mr Santamaria  and the then Monsignor Fox addressed meetings in the Myer Emporium in which I was an employee. After communion breakfast they told the workers the commitments they had to the Movement and the steps they should take to ensure that the people with whom they were involved were put into places of some advantage or authority. Is it any wonder that we see the same involvement here? Honourable members come into this chamber projecting exactly the same philosophy and reaching the point where they advocate union bashing, conscription, nuclear defence, snobocracy, phoney money policies, the gerrymandering of electorates and blatant dedication to vested and sectional interests. All this vicious bigotry was projected, in effect, by those people. The same sort of thing has been going on day after day in this House. If honourable members have any doubts about the track record of  Mr Santamaria,  I refer them to a book written by  Mr Paul  Ormonde and entitled 'The Movement'. He was deeply concerned with the Catholic workers' organisation and knew of his own knowledge what happened. 
Time is running out for me, but I should like to draw the attention of the honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Ian Robinson),  who is at the table, to the conquest by stealth by which these organisations have almost gained control of the National Country Party. Believe me, it will be next, so it had better have a look at itself. The same sorts of techniques as were used in the unions to divide the Labor movement have been developed to infiltrate the Country Party. It will be next. So heed a note or warning. We see this sort of patronage given to individuals who week after week get out and glorify our involvement in the war in Vietnam and who put up precisely the same policies as those being enunciated by the National Country Party. Members of the National Country Party should have a look at themselves. It seems to me that this sort of association should not go unnoted. The association of these organisations with the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon),  the honourable member for Mallee and others has to be looked at with a great deal of suspicion. Let us hope that in the future people on the other side of the House, including people in the Liberal Party, will take note of what I am saying, because many of them know full well that what I am saying now is the truth. 
My question - 
-Order! The time allotted for the remaining stages of the Bill has expired. The question is: That the Bill be now read a third time. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
-Order! The time allotted for the second reading debate has expired. The question is, "That the Bill be now read a second time'. 
Question put. 

-Order! I think the honourable member is straying from the real content of the Bill. I have given him a lot of latitude in that respect. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Science. I have read a recent Press report which indicates that certain colour television sets containing half-way rectification are not only a danger to the major earthing systems at least in the States of Victoria and New South Wales but also under certain circumstances a hazard to public safety. As I know from my own personal knowledge that large numbers of these sets have been sold what steps are to be taken to inform the public of the names of these sets? What steps are to be taken to have the sets recalled? Further, what steps are to be taken to have consumers recompensed for the errors or the actions of the companies concerned as letters from the State Electricity Commissions of Victoria and New South Wales were sent to the companies concerned some time ago advising them of the danger. 
-As the proposer of the motion is not present, the motion lapses. (The  Clerk  having called on General Business Notice of Motion No. 6 in the name of the honourable member for Mackellar) - 
-Order! This is a delightful conversation, but I ask the honourable member to return to the subject under debate. 
I remind the House that supplementary assistance is that small additional amount that is paid to pensioners who have virtually no other sources of income and who pay rent. These people in times of high levels of rent are finding it extraordinarily difficult to make ends meet. One of the first recommendations made in the interim report of the Henderson Committee was that the present rate of supplementary assistance should be doubled from $4 to $8 a week. A leading plank in the platform of the Liberal and Country Party Opposition which was announced by our then Leader in April 1974 was that we would increase the level of supplementary assistance from $4 to $6. As the honourable member for Mackellar said in the case he made out when he originally presented this motion, we believe that inordinate hardship is being suffered now by pensioners and that this position should be reviewed immediately and should not wait for a total budgetary consideration. In fact, the statement made by the Minister for Social Security today to the effect that this matter should be considered in the context of the Government's total social security program rings a little hollow because tomorrow he will be the Treasurer of Australia and later this year he will prepare a Budget to which he has already committed himself and will honour the commitment and instruction of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  to make that Budget a tough one. I imagine that in the Budget there will be very little extra in hand-outs or benefits for pensioners. 
I believe that the Minister has moved a hollow amendment because neither he nor the Government has any intention of increasing the amount of supplementary assistance in the next Budget. The amendment moved by the Minister states that the Government's total social security program should be commended. That is a proposition to which I could not possibly ascribe. But I believe that this is neither the time nor the place to debate that issue. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Original question, as amended, resolved in the affirmative. 
-The point of order should have been taken when the words were used. If exception had been taken to the words at that time I would have asked the right honourable member for Lowe to withdraw them. Exception was not taken at the time. I will leave the matter to the right honourable member to decide. 
-There being no seconder, the motion lapses. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
In the 148th report the Committee found it necessary to refer to cases of unsatisfactory estimating or administrative performances that resulted in shortfalls in expenditure. The Committee is pleased to note from the Treasury minutes that action has been taken by departments to overcome these inadequacies and that the conclusions of the Committee have been brought to the notice of the appropriate officers. The practice of presenting Treasury minutes is the result of an arrangement made between the Committee and the Treasurer before the presentation of the Committee's first report on 10 March 1953. The arrangement is that the Committee forwards a copy of each report to the Treasurer for consideration immediately that report is tabled.  His  reply in the form of a Treasury minute is then examined by the Committee and included in a later report to the Parliament. The 156th report is one of these later reports. Before preparing its minute the Treasury consults the departments concerned and obtains their views on the recommendations and conclusions of the Committee. Essentially, the Treasury minute system ensures that Committee recommendations are acted upon and informs members of the steps taken to meet their proposals. I commend the report to honourable members. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
These recommendations apart, the Committee does not find in its examination of the industry evidence that showed that the consumer was being disadvantaged by any particular practice engaged in by the processors in this industry. The industry is, like soaps and detergents, highly concentrated, but unlike the latter the Committee has found that the frozen and canned vegetables industry is one where the competition is real and effective, that the amount of advertising was low, that charges of brand proliferation were not substantiated and that the profits earned in the industry are not high. Perhaps the main reason for the existence of strong competition is the importance of house brands, products made by processors for retailers or wholesalers under their own private label. There are more than one dozen house brands for frozen peas and beans and these supply more than 40 per cent of the market. The inability of the processors to get national acceptance for their brands is probably the reason for the importance of house brands in this industry. House brand contracts are determined mainly on the basis of price, and price competition between processors has been and is strong. 
Thus the power of the retailers has acted as a balance against the power of the processors and has brought benefits to the consumer as well. From the commencement of the inquiry the Committee's attention was drawn to the position of the grower vis-a-vis the processor in this industry. While evidence that the processor has exploited the grower was not conclusive, the Committee noted comments in the Green Paper on Rural Policy in Australia which argued a case for Government involvement where there was a vast disparity in the bargaining strength or the growers and processors. This is the case in the frozen and canned vegetables industry where 4 major processors deal with large numbersliterally thousands- of individual growers. 
The Committee examined various proposals that would restore the competitive balance between the buyers and sellers of vegetables. It has recommended that because of the relatively strong bargaining position of the processors, the 
Minister for Agriculture should establish a national panel of vegetable growers and processors of peas and beans. The Committee has further recommended that the panel should consist of an official of the Department of Agriculture and an equal number of growers and processors. A representative of the Australian Federation of Consumer Organisations should be invited to attend meetings of the panel. The main function of the panel would be to discuss the long-term future of the industry and other matters of mutual interest, such as prices and contracts. To give effect to this recommendation the Committee has recommended also that the activities of the panel be exempted from the relevant provision of the Trade Practices Act. 
Before recommending the report to the House I would like to thank, in particular, the members of the Committee of the last Parliament as well as the members of the Committee in this Parliament for the contributions they have made to the Committee's work. I want to draw to the attention of the House that it was a member of the National Country Party of Australia who originally brought this subject of frozen and canned vegetables to the attention of the Committee. It was, indeed, brought before the Committee because of the action of processors in relation to growers. The fact is that although there are a number of processors in Australia- each one of them has a particular group of growers in a geographical area with which to deal- there is virtually a monopoly position in relation to processors and a very fragmented group of people to deal with when it comes to the number of growers. 
So, in this case, the Committee's recommendations relate not only to price but also to harmony in the industry. As far as the price is concerned, we have honestly brought to the attention of the Parliament, and thus to the people, that there is true competition among processors, and, we believe, reasonable efficiency and the lowest possible price is being obtained. But we think, for harmony in the industry and in the interests of the growers, the Minister for Agriculture should set up a panel at a national level in order to facilitate the communciations between the growers and the processors in that particular industry. 
I want to pay proper tribute also to the staff of the Committee for the work they have done in this inquiry.  Mr John  Cummins is a young man who has been with the Committee for some time now. He has performed extremely valuable services in relation to this report. Although I was not able to mention him during the prepared part of my statement which I have given to the House, I now pay tribute to him for the work that he has done. 
I should like to mention to the House two other matters to which the Committee is now devoting its attention. One relates to building materials and in particular to timber. That matter was brought to the attention of the Committee some time ago by the Minister who is sitting at the table, the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson).  He referred to the Committee the problems of building materials. We are hoping to do valuable work for the Parliament and for the people when we present the report on timber in the near future. The other matter before the Committee at this stage is the question of bread prices. We know that work is being done in various States of Australia on this subject but we feel that the Committee has a real role to co-ordinate the work that is being done in the various States. I have pleasure in commending the report to the House. 
-Can the Treasurer relate Budget measures to the findings of Professor Henderson 's Committee of Inquiry into Poverty? Can he say whether tax relief for low and middle income earners with dependants is a significant move towards goals which Professor Henderson envisages being met by increased child endowment payments? 
-Order! The honourable member has been straying very wide of the mark. He has not referred to the Bill in any shape or form. I have given him a lot of latitude, but I would like him to concentrate on some specific aspects of the Bill. 
-Now look - 
Central Intelligence Agency was using in Pakistan. We are all aware that France got out of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation and asked America to remove its bases from French soil. This legislation does not go that far; it only asks for joint control. Portugal and Spain now are rethinking whether they should continue to permit America to have bases in their countries. In Greenland there is indignation about an American base there. The honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)  referred to the build up, which he supports, in Diego Garcia. 
I believe that this legislation will restore greater dignity to the Australian people. I believe there are millions of people in the United States who admire the courage of this Government for asking for joint say in the control of a nuclear base which could involve Australia in war, a base which is wholly and solely under the control of the United States President who can give the orders to fire. We all well know what happened to the last President of the United States and what happened in Watergate. I think this legislation should be applauded by every decent thinking Australian. The Government's attitude is that no country should be able to involve Australia in war without the Australian Government having some say. Under the present situation this radio station or naval communications station can give directions to 15 or 20 nuclear submarines and order them to fire. The Australian Government should have some say in its control. 
-Would the honourable member resume his seat. 
-Order! The time allocated for precedence to general business has expired. The honourable member for the Northern Territory will have leave to continue his speech when the debate is resumed. The resumption of the debate will be made an order of the day under General Business for the next sitting. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 

<graphic href="096131197508286_29_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="096131197508286_30_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="096131197508286_31_2.jpg"></graphic>

-Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 

 Sitting suspended from 5.56 to 8 p.m. 

I rise to support the Budget strategy outlined by the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  in his Budget Speech. I must first pay tribute to the Treasurer. He has managed, in the most difficult economic circumstances, to produce a Budget that is both financially responsible and in line with the overall Labor philosophy of social reform. In sharp contrast we have seen the Opposition frantically searching for a line of attack and rushing about looking for something to criticise. What did the Opposition come up with? Absolutely nothing. It did not come forward with one single solitary issue on which to mount an attack. Throughout the community the Budget has been received with approval. The Australian people realise that we are going through a testing time. They ap_plaud the calm and reasonable, way the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  has met the challenge. 
A few weeks ago the media were chock-full of stories predicting diabolical cutbacks in expenditure and scare stories of a horror Budget, the kind of alarmist cries that make the job of economic recovery most difficult It is this kind of irresponsible scare-mongering that has put paid, and thoroughly paid, to any claim the Opposition might have had to responsibility in the face of the twin threats of inflation and unemployment. These economic problems are by no means confined to Australia. We have heard all about that from previous speakers on the Government side of the House. Many distinguished economists have stressed that one of the major problems in confronting the present and unprecedented economic situation is the atmosphere of fear and confusion. But the very fear of an economic crisis makes this crisis more likely to occur. It is the Opposition that has set out deliberately to create an atmosphere of fear and confusion in its desperate attempt to find an issue- any issue- on which to attack the Government. 
The Opposition has shown itself to be totally unscrupulous and totally irresponsible. It has done all within its power to sabotage the economic recovery that this Budget will usher in. But the people of Australia have seen through their game. They have rejected the lies and the rumours. They have accepted the Budget for what it is, a masterly combination of economic reform and social justice. Suddenly, all the threats of the Opposition rejecting the Budget have disappeared. They have faded like its promises of bold new initiatives and its promises of decisive new leadership. How long will it be before' farmer Fraser starts his long march over the hot coals to join Captain Bill, and old Bill, God bless him, in the outfield, and before a dazzling new star is manufactured to lead the rabble out of the wilderness? We have seen a deplorable display of self-interest by $50,000 Malcolm. How bent was he to destroy facilities set up by our Government for the protection and services of the community in general and the underprivileged in particular while taking the necessary steps to reinstate himself and his fellow landed gentry as recipients of the superphosphate bounty to the detriment of the taxpayers in this country? Since the introduction of the superphosphate bounty in 1963, it is fair to assume that Malcolm Fraser has received payments from the taxpayers - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The honourable member for Melbourne should realise that he must refer to members of this House by their full title. 
-The Leader of the Opposition is more descriptive, I suppose. He has received bounties totalling as much as $50,000 to spread superphosphate over his $2m property. 
The honourable member for Paterson does not like it. But he is going to hear some more. In the short time at my disposal I would like to tell the people of Australia just what is going to be removed from the services and the facilities on offer. I will refer to one of the facilities due for the axe under a Liberal National Country Party Government I refer to the - 
I will be here a long time after you have gone,  Colonel Bogey.  I refer to the Australian Legal Aid Office. In doing so, I believe that I am speaking in the interests of the vast majority of Australians. It has been said that history repeats itself, first as a tragedy and secondly as a farce. In his attack on the Australian Legal Aid Office we have seen the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)-  not for the first time and certainly not for the last time- attempting to reverse the trend of history. Some months ago we saw the fledgling Leader of the Opposition attempting to assert his authority over the less spineless of his colleagues. One of the more farcical edicts of the new head prefect would have deprived the people of Australia- so we are led to believe- of the invaluable and I assume free legal service and the advice of the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  advice that the honourable member was apparently wont to dispense over a few quiet ales in the various watering holes frequented by the honourable gentleman. Like so many of the bold initiatives of the new Leader of the Opposition, this attempt to deprive the country of the legal wisdom of one of his colleagues proved a farce. In searching desperately around for something or anything to cut from the Budget to finance his or, would you believe,  Mr Baume's  harebrained taxation schemes- I suspect very strongly that he wrote the speech delivered by the honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  tonight- the Leader of the Opposition has come up with a new proposal to deprive the people of Australia of a far more comprehensive avenue of legal advice. This time he proposes a move that, were it to succeed, would be not only a farce but also a tragedy for the thousands of people who have already benefited and the many thousands more who will benefit from the assistance provided by the Australian Legal Aid Offices. 
It is some measure of the complete lack of contact between the Leader of the Opposition and the people of Australia that he should be so willing to scrap a scheme that has proved to be so important to so many people in the short time that it has been in existence. It is another example of the kind of patrician disdain that enables the wife of the Leader of the Opposition to refer to the vast majority of Australians as 'them'doubtless reserving the more exclusive 'we' for those who have gone to the very best of private schools, who are members of the most select clubs and who preferably lead the comfortable existence of the landed gentry- the Lord and Lady of Wannon, and all of those individuals who sit in the corner reserved for the members of the National Country Party. Just have a look at them. 
I am sure that the Leader of the Opposition finds it impossible even to imagine what it is like to be confronted with the vast intricacy of the law and the bewildering maze of the bureaucracy without the backup system of the old boy network and without the financial luxury of an expensive firm of solicitors. It is one of the tragedies of our society that the people who need a comprehensive knowledge of their rights, who need a thorough understanding of the process of the law, are the very people who are denied this knowledge, that those people who are most likely to have their rights usurped and trampled upon are the very people who, because of their background, their education and their environment, are the most helpless when it comes to asserting those rights. These people- and they make up the vast majority of ordinary Australiansare the first targets of the con merchants. They are the guileless victims of the unscrupulous and the pawns of indifferent and uncaring bureaucrats. It is these people who need an acquaintance with the law and who are, in the main, ignorant of their rights under the law. The tiny coteries of the rich for whom the Leader of the Opposition acts as spokesmanhowever indifferently- would never need the services of the Australian legal aid scheme. They form the articulate minority and the privileged few. They are the ones who are quite capable of exploiting the present legal machinery to protect and improve their privileged position. Look what happened in regard to the superphosphate bounty. They are the ones who hire fast talking lawyers. They are the directors who never lose a penny when the companies crash and the small investors lose their lifes' savings. They are the ones who know the ropes when the young Hamish or young Fiona commits some youthful indiscretion. They are the ones whose private affairs are securely guarded from the scrutiny of the Press by writ- wielding libel lawyers. They are the ones whose shady business deals and dodgy taxation devices are buttressed by a spiders web of legal jargon. The very few people that the Leader of the Opposition represents have no need of the services of the Australian legal aid offices. They are doing very well, thank you. Repeated studies of criminologists and legal researchers have established time and time again that the higher the income of the defendant, the lower the penalty, even when the offences are exactly the same. It is those who have the least who pay the most. Those who most need to know, know the least. It is this kind of injustice which the Leader of the Opposition and his colleagues seeks to perpetuate. The vast majority of Australians are unaware of their rights and privileges under the law. The situation is that all are equal before the law but it is a funny thing that some are more equal than others. It is the aim of the Australian legal aid program to make people aware of their rights and to place them on an equal footing with the more affluent members of the community. 
Before going any further I would like to clear up some of the public misconceptions about the Australian legal aid program. This service has been one of the most eagerly received of the programs instituted by our Government. It is a new service. Because of this newness some people do not understand the scope and the function of the Australian Legal Aid Office. They still believe that the ALAO has a limited charter, that it dispenses only certain types of legal advice and that that advice is available only to certain disadvantaged groups in the community. This is simply not true. The Australian Legal Aid Office is available to any person who seeks legal advice on any topic. This advice is free and it is available to anyone who needs it. It is only when the function of the Legal Aid Office extends beyond advice and into the sphere of legal action that some form of restriction applies. Only then is a category of need introduced. The category of need embraces a very wide and comprehensive segment of our community. The service is designed to assist all for whom the Commonwealth has a special responsibility and all who are involved with federal law. The following groups of people in our community are eligible for legal assistance, as distinct from legal advice: All exservicemen and women; Aboriginals; students; all who are receiving benefits which include old age pensioners, widows, supporting mothers, people on sickness benefits and the unemployed. 
Legal assistance is also available to newcomers to our country; that is, people who have lived here for less than 3 years. In other words, millions of Australians are eligible to receive assistance. These millions the Opposition- that is all honourable members on the other side of the chamber- would condemn to legal neglect. In the month of July the Australian Legal Aid Office conducted 14 457 personal interviews. That figure is for one month alone. By the end of 1 976 another 29 regional offices will be open. On the July figure that will mean that once the 57 offices are in operation they will see at least 414 866 people during the year. The number of people making use of the Australian Legal Aid Office is increasing every day as more and more people become aware of the service it offers. This service is to be cut off at the socks by any future LiberalCountry Party Government. Nonetheless at a conservative estimate the Australian Legal Aid Office will be conducting at least half a million interviews by the end of the financial year. This is the magnitude of the service which the Leader of the Opposition is prepared to scrap so willingly. This action indicates the disregard and the contempt in which he holds the underprivileged of this country. 
I have pointed out how many people benefit from the legal aid program and how many more may expect to benefit from it in the future. There is a very important area on which I have not touched. This is the area of environmental and consumer protection. No other legal aid service is available for groups seeking to protect our environment. Without the Australian Legal Aid Office they would be at the mercy of the huge and often multinational companies which so frequently threaten our natural environment. These companies have enormous financial and legal resources. For the small and dedicated band of activists involved in the fight to protect our heritage the Australian Legal Aid Office provides vital aid. The Fraser Island Defence Organisation, the Queensland Conservation Council, the Cape York Conservation Council in the north, the Williamstown Conservation Planning Society, the Port Phillip Conservation Council and the Westernport Peninsula Protection Council are just a few of the bodies which have turned to the Australian Legal Aid Office for assistance. 
This service extends to private individuals. Only recently legal aid was granted to Miss Stoltz in her fight against quarrying in beautiful Ferntree Gully in the area of the Dandenongs in Victoria. If the Leader of the Opposition had his way not only would we sell the farm to the highest bidder but also we would deny legal aid to the people who tried to stop others pulling down the trees. Another important area covered by the Australian legal aid program is consumer protection. Some two-thirds of consumer protection complaints involve legal action. To close the ALAO, as the Leader of the Opposition is suggesting, would deny to the people of Australia and in particular to those involved in the Australian Federation of Consumer Organisations -an organisation representing some 3.5 million people- the legal redress which the service currently offers. 
There is another misconception about the Australian Legal Aid Office which I would like to clear up. It is the belief still held by a few that those officers who dispense legal advice at the legal aid offices are not fully qualified lawyers, that some of the personnel in the offices are training to be lawyers or student lawyers. That is simply not true. The legal staff manning these offices is made up of fully qualified lawyers. In no way is the quality of the advice inferior to that given by some of the legal eagles who sit on the other side of the House. They take advantage of their situation as do some other characters. The officers of the Legal Aid Office are encouraged to involve themselves in the fabric of the local community. I have mentioned several times that the legal aid scheme is new. It has already proved its worth to thousands of Australians. Doubtless the scheme is far from perfect. By its very nature it will continue to evolve, to change and reform as new areas of need emerge and as old ones diminish. I am encouraged that our Government has already received suggestions for the possible reform of the service. Many of these suggestions have come from lawyers working in the field of legal aid. I am sure that the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  will give these suggestions every consideration since they are offered in the spirit of constructive reform. These are not like the Leader of the Opposition's Neanderthal attempts to turn the clock back to the mythical good old days which exist only in the hallowed sanctums of the geriatric private clubs which are the refuge of the senile and privileged dreaming the dreams of vintage port. The need for a scheme like the Australian legal aid service is always there. The response of the Australian people to the offices already in existence proves that they welcome the scheme.  (Quorum formed)  I am appreciative of the fact that my talents are recognised. The overwhelming majority of Australians welcome the service provided by the Australian Legal Aid Office. I commend the Budget to the House and oppose the phoney amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-In the short time at my disposal I wish to make a couple of references to the type of hypocrisy which we have just heard from a once parasite on the trade union movement, who made a lot of money in living off the unions and who now talks glibly about private welfare. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  referred in a recent Press statement to the report of the Henderson inquiry and to the dreadful things which the present Government allegedly is perpetrating on the Australian people. Looking at 23 years of Liberal-Country Party rule, we see clearly the lack of interest of that Government in the people who really are deserving of assistance. 
Let me point to one very pleasing aspect of the Budget recently brought down by the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  which ought to be noted but which has passed quite unnoticed. This fact is not surprising as the people whom this proposal affects are used to being unnoticed. I refer specifically to the homeless men and women of Australia, the casualties of our society, whom governments in the past have been happy to ignore. In drawing attention to this aspect of the Budget, I return to my original tribute to the Treasurer's skill and ability which I mentioned in my speech in the Budget debate. By his skill, the Treasurer has managed to combine economic necessity and social justice. I refer also to his ability to introduce restraint without abandoning the social philosophy which distinguishes our Party from the tools of the rich and the powerful who sit on the Opposition benches. I refer also to the many policy areas in which there are no votes to be won. I cannot think of any group with less electoral muscle and less political influence than the homeless. 
In an address at the Wesley Church Sunday Forum in June, I drew attention to the situation of the homeless- the stiffs, the bums, the cast-offs, the people whom we would rather ignore and with whom the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan),  who is trying to interject, ought to be. I drew attention to 2 articles which had been published some time previously in the Melbourne  Age.  One article referred to the fact that a street cleaning machine had swept up the corpse of a homeless individual. The other article referred to a lost dogs' home. I commend those people who have feelings for animals. Only one letter arrived in relation to the person who had been swept up by the street cleaning machine; but countless hundreds of letters referring to the lost dogs' home were received and a number of them were published in the Melbourne  Age.  That illustrates the basis on which those who sit on the other side of the House are content to form their judgments when considering their priorities and values in relation to these matters. 
The honourable member for Stirling spoke today about private welfare. My illustration demonstrates the view of the Liberal Party about private welfare. It is to make workers into little capitalists. What a lot of bunkum! If the people opposite were in office- I refer, for example, to the honourable member for Riverina- half of our young fellows would be in the Army and the rest of the people would be living in poverty, and the homeless men would still be being swept up by street cleaning machines. But if the Leader of the Opposition's colleagues desert him as speedily and as thoroughly as they deserted his predecessor, one day he may be grateful for the assistance that is provided in this Budget for homeless people in the major capital cities of this country. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! As it is now 1 5 minutes to 1 o 'clock, in accordance with standing order 106 the debate is interrupted. I put the question: 
That grievances be noted. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Government members- No. 
-Has the Prime Minister seen reports of a call by the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions,  Mr Hawke,  for the Government to reconsider the phasing out of the Regional Employment Development scheme? Can the Prime Minister inform the House of the future of the scheme or of any other approaches made to him seeking the retention of the Regional Employment Development scheme? 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. Is the motion seconded? 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 

<graphic href="096131197509115_87_6.jpg"></graphic>

The point I seek to make from reference to those tables is that there are very marked discrepancies State by State. In the application of the levy there is a constitutional responsibility on which Queensland producers have a legal opinion which suggests that the whole form of this levy might be as a result invalid. There is a constitutional responsibility that there should be an equality of levy liability. The taxation between areas and individuals in an area should not place a different incidence on one State or one producer to another. Yet it would seem that that Will be the product of this legislation. These tables show that Queensland producers of apples and pears can expect to pay on a per bushel basis significantly more than producers in other States. This assertion is borne out to some extent by the Henderson Committee of Inquiry into rural poverty which flagged the fresh fruit industry as having serious social and economic poverty problems. That is not to say that all apple and pear producers are poor, but certainly within the industry there is a substantial poverty problem and the impact of this levy could accentuate this problem. 
Production and marketing costs and inflation within the industry are eroding the ability of producers to capitalise on their market opportunities. This is compounded in States such as Tasmania where varietal problems have meant that old and traditional markets, together with the application of the common agricultural pOliCy of the European Economic Community and competition from South Africa and other competitors, have made sales far more difficult. The scheme of remissions under clause 6 of the Apple and Pear Levy Collection Bm seem to provide an answer, but I raise the matter of the liability because it seems to me important that the remissions if they are to be applied, are not applied in such a way that there is a continuity of difference and distinction between the States. There is a suggestion that in order to reduce the liability of Queensland producers, the liability of producers throughout Australia should be reduced under a set formula. I hope that the Government will give an assurance that such a remission will be provided so that discrimination against certain producers, particularly those in the granite belt, might be eliminated. 
However, it must not be overlooked in the application of the levy and in the policy of the Corporation that in Queensland there is a Committee of Direction of Fruit Marketing to which there is also a levy payable by producers in that State. I think that where there is a body such as the COD, it is necessary for this Government to try to help the Corporation, for all its independent statutory responsibilities, to ensure that there is no overlapping in the task that each is undertaking and to ensure that through direct representation of the Queensland producers on the Corporation there may be an ability to overlap the two, in other words to integrate rather than to provide a duplication of functions. I am sure that in some of the functions of the COD there is room for quite a significant integration. If there is no integration Queensland producers will have to pay two levies for much the same result. The Corporation might well agree to finance some of the activities of the COD in relation to marketing and promotion. It might decide as a result that the COD could pass to the Corporation some of those functions which it now finds necessary to pursue. 
The assessment of a levy per farm will require a financial commitment which might detract from the overall attractiveness of the establishment of the Corporation. If this happens and the Corporation fails, the marketing efforts, critical though they are at the moment, are likely to be further aggravated. There are very real problems in the application of the levy because of the difficulties of fallen fruit, hail-struck fruit, weather-damaged fruit and so on. When the sales tax exemption existed for soft drink manufacturers there was an opportunity for this hail damaged fruit to be otherwise used. Unfortunately, one of the Government's decisions, as a product of the Coombs report, in the 1973-74 Budget was to significantly terminate the alternate market available for this type of fruit. Although assistance has been offered in some ways, such as through the tree-pull scheme, this assistance has not provided a reasonable alternative to the market that existed through the application of that sales tax concession. 
So now we have a combination of problems, problems that first of all pertain to the difficulties that the application of the levy imposes in itself and, secondly, problems which severely distinguish producers in one State from producers in others. In Opposition we have seriously considered moving an amendment which would require a change in the levy collection formula to a system which related to a production sales basis. We felt that to do so in Opposition was not a practical alternative. I therefore ask the Minister seriously to consider disabilities as they occur amongst producers in several States, to examine the degree to which the clause 6 remission of liability to pay the levy can be provided, and to ensure that if there are gross inequities they be examined not in some areas but as the scheme itself is applied. I formally give an undertaking to the House that in Government the Opposition Parties will do just that, for we recognise the problems that the officers within the Australian Department of Agriculture have had in trying to devise a formula which is practical and equitable. 
Equally it should be said that in this area as in so many others the Government seems to have come to the industry and said: 'We are not prepared to provide significant assistance'. The industry, as with most primary producing industries, has been prepared to bear to the maximum its responsibilities for undertaking the overall task of marketing its product. However, the Government fails to recognise the serious position in which many producers find themselves and fails to recognise that, given the swings of the pendulum, of seasons and markets to which I referred earlier today, it has a responsibility not just to wash its hands of the industry but to provide a fundamental undertaking to assist when those disabilities occur. I am apprehensive that in the application of this levy, the levy is being set not because the Corporation has said: 'We feel we are financially viable, sound and are confident in our future ', but because the Corporation has been told by the Government: 'Unless you are prepared to provide the money you will not have any sinew with which to operate'. I am disappointed that that attitude should be taken by the Government because I see this industry as one which has not only an economic but also a social importance. 
As I explained before, these 3 Bills would have been better presented to the Parliament after the Industries Assistance Commission's report on the continuation of the apple and pear stabilisation scheme has been submitted, considered and implemented. I believe that at that stage it might have been practical for producers to undertake to make this sort of contribution, but at the moment the very critical economic plight that many find themselves in places even the further responsibility which the levy represents almost beyond their capacity. I think it is a great pity that the Government was not prepared in those circumstances to come along and say: 'Until we can give you an undertaking for the future '-it is not prepared to give it now-' we will ensure that you have funds with which to operate until such stage as there is a guarantee of the sort of minimal stabilisation which we are prepared to finance'. I do not know the degree to which funds will be provided to this Corporation from the rural credit section of the Reserve Bank. However, it would seem to me that in marketing, now that the Corporation has been created, this is one way by which significant moneys can be made available to producers to keep them functioning. 
The Apple and Pear Levy Bill, of course, does not cover all the marketing difficulties; it essentially relates to finance which is why I speak of rural credits. But let me assure the House that in the application of the levy, and in consideration of State variances to which mention has been made, there needs to be an acknowledgement of the quite extraordinary difficulties which, for example, the granny smith growers in Western Australia have and the problems they have had in trying to enter the Japanese market, problems which to date remain unresolved, I understand. It is not just a matter of the Japanese saying they are apprehensive of fruit fly for it seems to me that that is essentially a political argument. It is in that area that we then turn to the overseas marketing effort and the overseas negotiating effort of Ministers and the Government generally. I believe that there are very critical marketing problems State by State, area by area. Although the Opposition is not going to oppose the levy, we seriously ask the Government to examine its application and its impact. We ask it to introduce at the earliest possible moment a forward apple and pear stabilisation scheme. Without that the producers themselves Will be unable to provide the levy and the levy BUI itself will be inoperative. I ask finally that it consider sympathetically the use of clause 6, the remission clause. If the gross iniquities that the Queensland producers in particular claim will result from the legislation do in fact result, I hope that the remission clause is used to resolve them. 
-Has the attention of the Treasurer been drawn to suggestions that householders who already pay rates to local government authorities should be required to pay a local government income tax as well? Is he aware of any suggestion that rates should be reduced by an amount corresponding to this new form of double taxation? 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Does the Minister for Administrative Services propose to introduce legislation during the present session to provide for public disclosure of the source of campaign funds by political parties in Australia? 
I rise to support the Legal Aid Bill in its original form and anticipating the amendments to be moved by the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby).  I oppose the amendment moved by the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  which is clearly an exercise in deception and an indictment of the attitude of the Opposition to legal aid in Australia. If we have a look at the Opposition's track record we see that the amount of money that was spent on legal aid in the final year of the Opposition's reign in this House was something like $290,000. That was a great effort! 
We had a great dissertation by the honourable member for Bennelong. The only intelligent thing he said was that he recognised the fact that there was a cerebral response from the Governmentof course that means a brainy response. I hope that is acknowledged and the content of the Bill is treated accordingly. As the honourable member for Bennelong is leaving the chamber I would exhort him, if he is serious about providing proper and adequate legal aid, to ensure the passage of the Bill, with the proposed amendments of the Attorney-General, through another place. 
The philosophy running through the major programs of reform introduced by our Government in the areas of health, education social security and others is a necessity to provide services to the people of Australia on the basis of needs. Priorities have been established on this fundamental notion of providing access to community facilities to those people who are urgently requiring our attention and protection. Once again, the establishment of the Australian Legal Aid Office by the provisions of the Legal Aid Bill 1975 is in line with the Labor Government's policy of all citizens being equal before the law- a genuine declaration which is in sharp contrast to the attitude of the people who sit opposite who believe that there should continue to be an open slather for imposters crooks, shysters, local land sharks and phony lawyers who act on behalf of insurance companies, employers and others, to exploit the people who cannot protect themselves simply because they cannot meet the exorbitant fees charged by the mixed bag of legal advisers available to them. 
It is necessary to point out that the ALAO will be complementary to the private lawyer and other bodies which are concerned with the protection of individuals in need. Our learned friend at the table, the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott),  and all his offsiders have had a bonanza and no doubt will continue to do so until we can provide an adequate service on the basis of need to people who cannot afford it otherwise. It is all right for the honourable member for Wentworth and the other gentry around the chamber to protect the blue bloods. The system needs to go a lot further than that. So far as the involvement of other bodies, this is the key to the ALAO. It is in direct contact with the various service bodies in and around the area which know the problems of the people in the electorate of Melbourne in particular and the poorer areas of Sydney and other places. They can relate to them. They do not run up against a brick wall because the people who go to them do not have to get into their pockets before they are even talked to by some smart solicitor. 
A great deal of debate has taken place within the community by representatives of law societies, legal referral services and interested groups. This has enabled the Attorney-General and his Department to frame a Bill that can guarantee a service practical in application that will be of benefit to the people of my electorate of Melbourne and others who are in a screaming need of assistance. The suggestions of the people to whom I have made reference and the debates which have taken place have resulted in the amendments to be moved by the AttorneyGeneral. Why go on with the humbug of the Opposition amendment referring the Bill to a committee? Anybody who has been in this business long knows that the easiest way of disposing of something or shelving it is to refer it to a committee. That has happened time and again to legislation in another place. It has been referred to a committee and there it has died. 
It would be remiss of me if I did not make mention of one of the existing facilities that has provided much of the information born out of its experience which has served as the base for the introduction of this legislation. I refer to the Fitzroy Legal Service situated in the heart of my electorate. It has done a magnificent job in providing the type of legal aid at shop front facilities for a multitude of people over a wide range of legal problems. The service deals with about 5000 cases a year. It has not operated simply as a pilot scheme in the first instance and then faded into a minor role in the scheme of things; it has developed a highly respected service. It is actually providing another ALAO office on the cheap. I stress to the Minister the importance of this service to the people of Melbourne and other areas and ask him to recognise the role played by the Fitzroy Legal Service and like organisations and to ensure their survival, at least until proper and adequate service can be provided by his Department through the structure of the ALAO. 
The role of the Opposition in general, and in particular the lord of the western districts in Victoria, has been an absolute disgrace. In the fact of public demand for the establishment of this type of legal facility, rejection of this Bill, the non-acceptance of it the shelving of it or whatever the Opposition might want to do with it, is totally irresponsible. Just how fair dinkum is the Opposition? 
As usual the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has opened his mouth and let the wind blow bis tongue around. He has said that the Opposition will reject or dismantle the program, and in so doing has compromised some of the learned gentlemen opposite who have always genuinely supported the introduction of the ALAO and recognised the fact that if the service is discontinued it will have the same effect as cutting the widow's pension or the invalid pension. It is now recognised as part of the whole structure. 
-The only thing that is not relevant here is you. If we are to provide a service to protect people against the individuals to whom I have referred, then we have to be clear and unequivocal in what we want to do. We have had debate in the community. We have talked to individuals concerned. We have carried out surveys. We know clearly from all the informationby God, we have plenty of it- that over a number of years the previous Government totally disregarded the provision of facilities to protect individuals against the scoundrels in the community. 
People are sent to me from lawyers- halfsmart lawyers, probably in the Liberal Partywith letters of introduction so that they can ask me to make representations to the Department of Labor and Immigration to have their visas extended. I said to one of them: 'How much did it cost you for that advice?' The fee was $120, would you mind. A letter was sent to the right honourable member for Bruce  (Mr Snedden)  asking the same sort of advice. The person involved should simply say: 'You go along and see your member of Parliament. He can fix that up as a matter of course'. The guy finished up in my office. I do not know what the service was like. I do not know what the charge was. He was not terribly satisfied with the service. 
I have letters which show how fair dinkum some honourable members opposite are. The Leader of the Opposition has compromised these honourable members. Letters have been sent to the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  by Ralph Hunt, John Gorton, Don Cameron and William McMahon, would you believe. I wish to refer to a couple of them. Ralph Hunt states: 
I would firmly recommend that the City of Dubbo be selected at the earliest opportunity for a branch of the ALAO. As you will know, Dubbo serves a very extensive region, and a branch of ALAO in Dubbo would provide legal assistance to those in need from as far west as Bourke, and as far east as Mudgee. 
A letter written by John Gorton states, amongst other things: 
Malvern has a large elderly population, whose insubstantial means frequently prevents them from seeking legal justice. 
The people of Prahran, either that pan which comes into my electorate or that part which comes into Melbourne Ports, do not always attain legal justice because of lack of means and/or lack of knowledge and fear of the legal system. 
Both areas have a large Greek population and communication difficulties leave them at a handicap as far as legal justice is concerned. 
Malvern is well served with a tram service and a location in Prahran would probably cater well for both areas. 
Don Cameron writes: 
I acknowledge receipt of your circular letter dated 1 April 1975 and in response to your request for suggestions as to desirable areas in which to establish an Australian Legal Aid Office I suggest the Brisbane suburbs of Sones Corner and Cannon Hill. 
William McMahon writes: 
As you know, Burwood is the main business and commercial centre in the mid-western suburbs of Sydney and is extremely well served by public transport from all points of the compass. These factors, combined with its central geographical location, make Burwood eminently suitable for a Regional Legal Aid Office to serve more than 200 000 people in Burwood itself and surrounding areas. 
I would be pleased if you would consider the establishment of such an office at this centre, and look forward to receiving your further advice as soon as possible. 
These letters demonstrate the recognition of the ALAO by those honourable members. Their leader, this great fuhrer has compromised them. If they have got any courage they should stand up and be counted and force the Bill through in another place to ensure that the facilities are provided. We listened to the humbug of the honourable member for Bennelong talking about his own - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order!  I think it might be wise if the honourable member for Melbourne were to rephrase that comment. 
I tell you they will take more notice of me than they will of you. You come down to Melbourne or Victoria and put up the same rubbish as you have put up here this afternoon and see how you get on. The honourable member talks ridiculous nonsense about the solicitor-client relationship being taken away. If the honourable member can read, if he was taught to read at law school, he should read the documentation that was put out on the Legal Aid Office. It states: 
The Legal Aid Bill creates the Office as an independent statutory body to give effect to the Government's view that lawyers in the Office should be independent- and be seen to be independent of the Government. 
Can the honourable member not read that? It is clear and unequivocal. All the arguments that have been put up against the Bill led to the Opposition's incredible amendment, which I am sure is the greatest array of rubbish ever put into an amendment moved in this place. As evidence of the necessity for the Legal Aid Office Bill to be passed immediately and not shelved by the processes of the amendment, Iseek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  figures on the interviews that have been conducted since the inception of the Office by personnel of the Office. I have already shown the figures to the honourable member for Bennelong. 
-Order! If the honourable member for Hotham continues that sort of behaviour he will be doing it outside. 
-Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 

<graphic href="097131197510163_33_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="097131197510163_34_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="097131197510163_34_1.jpg"></graphic>

Debate (on motion by  Mr Adermann)  adjourned. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the 3 measures? I will allow that course to be followed. 
I take the opportunity to participate in this debate to raise a very real grievance, to take up some of the points which were made by the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  and to answer some of the idiotic outbursts of the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham).  The grievance that was raised and the points of view expressed by the honourable member for Wilmot are shared by the vast majority of Australians. The issue before this Parliament now is perhaps the most serious to come before it since Federation. I refer to the threat to our economy, the threat to our institution of Government and the threat to our whole Australian way of life posed by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  that man of principle who seems hellbent on destroying the principles and conventions on which our system of government depends. The array of pseudo-intellectuals who sit on the other side of the chamber, aided by the honourable member for North Sydney and some of his cohorts, are the individuals who never accepted the election results in 1972. The honourable member for North Sydney talks about the Government going to the ballot box. 
This Government has twice faced the ballot box- in 1972 when it was elected and last year. If there is any indication that the electorate wishes to express a view, that wish can be satisfied at a half Senate election. In the Senate a phoney amendment has been tagged on to the Appropriation Bills. The amendment is phoney; the Opposition has given itself a bit of elbow room. I predict that the Opposition will be back here screaming for the passage of that legislation within 2 weeks or 3 weeks. If the Opposition was fair dinkum, it would remove that amendmentthat tag- and let the Senate go to the ballot box in normal circumstances with the normal constitutional steps being taken. But these are individuals who believe that they were born to rule. They adopt a patronising attitude and will not debate with those individuals whom they believe are not their equivalent when judged by their level of academic learning. They believe that in this chamber they still wear the wigs and gowns that they wear outside. But anyone who is elected to this chamber is regarded in the same way as any other individual. We go the way of all flesh. The people of Australia will rebuke and reject those responsible for this act of barbarism, as it has been described by the honourable member for Wilmot. 
Some months ago, the hapless Captain Bill, bleeding profusely from between the shoulder blades, vacated the leadership of the Opposition and was replaced by that dashing and decisive defender of the Constitution, the old squire of Wannon. There was no beating around the bush by the honourable member for Wannon, the present Leader of the Opposition. There were no vague threats to withhold supply. A clear and firm assurance came from the gutless wonder that supply would only be blocked - 
A clear and firm assurance was given that supply would only be blocked in the case of 'reprehensible* or 'quite extraordinary' circumstances. That clear and firm assurance lasted a good 5 minutes. It was only 5 minutes before the Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  rushed in from the wings, waving his arms about, and pointing to the small printthe .:4.., the 'buts' and the 'maybes'. It was only 5 minutes before the media barons stepped up their campaign of lies and slander. It was only 10 minutes before the mining companies put in their order for a new government. It was only 15 minutes before the mysterious Khemlani arrived heralding his pathetic tale. I understand that Khemlani went home today and that, before he left Australia, he indicated clearly and unequivocally that he was entitled to no money from the Australian Government. Great stuff! The Herald and Weekly Times organisation which obviously brought the guy out here failed in its attempt to dupe the people of Australia. 
It was only 20 minutes before the country realised that Captain Bill had been replaced by a jellyfish. He had been replaced by a jellyfish which tossed whichever way the tide turned. That situation still remains. It is a tragedy and a disgrace that the fate of a democratically elected government should depend on the whim of an individual who is controlled by vested interests including the Press barons. This fact was illustrated clearly by  Senator Steele  Hall yesterday in the other place. Let me read from  Hansard  what  Senator Steele  Hall said. He refers to an answer given by the Leader of the Opposition at his Press conference yesterday when he said in reply to a question: 
I suggest that you read this morning's newspapers. 

 Senator Steele Hall stated: 
Of course, what this man of principle neglected to tell that conference was that yesterday he rang the newspaper proprietors around Australia and asked them to write what they wrote this morning. 
That was on 14 October. The next morning in the  Age  out came an editorial which was a switch from the line taken in editorials up to that point of time. The editorial in the  Age  of 15 October stated: 
We will say it straight, and clear, and at once. The Whitlam Government has run its course; it must go now, and preferably by the honourable course of resignation . . . 
Graham Perkin has spent his whole life defending the right of that newspaper to remain in an independent position. It is well known- journalists around this place will tell honourable members this-that he was absolutely dismayed and deeply hurt that Fairfax would stand over him and have him write an editorial at the behest of the Leader of the Opposition. 
It is a disgrace and an indictment of the Opposition. 
Does the honourable member not like to hear it? 
-Do you not like to hear it? Eight weeks ago the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  introduced a Budget designed to deal with an unprecedented and alarming economic situation. Every serious economic commentator in the country recognised the Budget as a reasonable and responsible response to a difficult situation. The Budget presented a valuable opportunity to discuss and analyse the economy in a responsible manner. But that seems to be the least of the Opposition's concern. 
Apart from some featherbrained schemes dreamt up by 'Would You Believe' Baume, an individual of dubious character, and a reckless decision to destroy the Australian Legal Aid Office, there has been no real debate on the Budget and no examination of the economy. I challenge the Opposition to produce constitutional authorities with one-tenth of the authority of Professor Sawer, Professor Zines, Professor Castles or Professor Howard. What do they have to say about the present threat of a rejection of Supply? The honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  spelt out clearly what they believed would happen. They commented on the present tactics of the Opposition as follows: 
The reduction of an ultimate constitutional sanction- if indeed it should ever be used at all- to the level of a routine political tactic is a debasing of our constitutional system and the democratic values it is supposed to protect. It is to be deplored. 
Indeed it is to be deplored. I believe that the majority of Australians have had a bellyfull of the Leader of the Opposition's sanctimonious cant. They are sick to death of the uncertainty- an uncertainty that is endangering this country's chances of economic recovery; an uncertainty that is threatening their way of life. 
The time has come for the Leader of the Opposition to lay his cards on the table. He has precisely 2 choices. One is the honourable course to follow- to retreat from his incredibly dangerous position and make a clear declaration that he will allow the democratically elected Government of Australia to get on with the business of governing free from the threat of Senate obstruction. He should make a clear declaration- not one hedged with fine print; not one covered in ifs and buts, but a clear declaration that the Government can get on with the job it was elected to do. The other course is to shed any veneer of principleto lay bare the hypocrisy of his pretence to statesmanship by the use of his numbers in the Senate to defeat the expressed wishes of the people. He should do away with the phoney amendment to which I have referred that has been added to the Bills that have been set aside or held up in the other place. This second course has little to recommend it in the way of decency. It does, however, have the grace of some sort of honesty. It is perhaps better to be an honest dingo than a shiftless, spineless jellyfish. 
-Order! I call the honourable members for the Northern Territory, Kennedy and Bendigo to order. 
-Order! The Minister's time has expired. 
-Order! Interjections will cease. There has been sufficient interruption in the debate today. Debate should be carried out with some dignity and decorum. I will call for silence and I will not tolerate further interjections. 
I suggest that these matters have not been thought through by those who are prepared to take the step of rejecting Supply. If in the context of 1975- as of now- the Senate can no longer claim that the section of the Constitution which says it may not amend carries an implication that nevertheless it can reject the Budget, the people who want to do these things should take into account the consequences of their action. Constitutions are more than written documents. Constitutions have a spirit as well as letter of the law. Constitutions are operated with conventions as well as with laws and, above all, constitutions ought to operate with common sense. Common sense is not being displayed in another place. The Senate is not representing the States in the actions it is taking. It is acting in the same way as the same political line-up in this place, the line-up which cannot win in this place but which tries to win in that place. It is trying to win in that place by asserting the right- the presumptive right, the impertinent right- that it can say: 'We will only do what we ought to do if you have a House of Representatives election'. 
We are standing upon the assertion of the rights of this House. People can look at my record in this place over something like 24 years. I have at other times when I was in Opposition said, when money Bills were sent down to the Senate, that it was time that this House asserted its fundamental rights, its priority over the power of the purse. I believe that what we should have in Australia in 1975 is what was written into the British system in 1911, that is, that an Upper House can do no more than sniff at a money Bill and if it delays it for more than a month it does not matter whether it passes it or not. Our system is the only Westminster parliamentary system under which the present situation can happen, and despite the quotations about why the words are there, they were taken out of some of the State Constitutions that existed prior to the Australian Constitution being written in 1901. It adopted what was then the convention of the British system, the convention that had been accepted as far back as 1861. It was accepted because when the House of Lords tried to do something to stop social reform, the then Prime Minister used the device of putting all the Government measures into one piece of legislation. Those in Opposition could not reject the measures one by one in piecemeal fashion. They had to pass the lot or reject the lot. Commonsense-wise they said they could not reject the lot because by so doing they would bring the whole financial and economic framework of the nation into disarray and the nation to a standstill. 
This is the situation that faces Australia at the moment. It cannot be resolved by  Mr Fraser  going to the Governor-General.  Mr Fraser  cannot claim that he can form a government. He cannot. He does not have the numbers. Governments are formed and unformed by votes in this House and both sides of this House ought to acknowledge the ascendency of that reality and what is being done. I must say that I almost felt sick the day that the Senate did what it did. I must say that I still believe common sense will prevail against sheer political lining up. I still think that if Opposition members were given a free vote or there were a secret vote there are people who would vote differently from what they were dragooned to do the other day. I still hope that there are some in this House who will assert the rights of this place and who will understand that the Opposition is bringing the constitutional arrangements into chaos. 
If the Opposition brings chaos are things going to remain constitutional? I found that one or two pious writers of leading articles and editorials took my two or three lines out of context and that is why today I have tried to suggest that it would have been better if I had said unusual, unconventional or unprecedented instead of unconstitutional. What are the consequences of the Opposition's holding firm, digging in its toes in the other place with a majority of one vote, a majority that honestly it ought not have? With that kind of franchise is the Opposition in this place going to yield and say: 'Yes, the Senate has a right to do this.'? 
The Senate has no right to force a House of Representatives to an election without any penalty upon itself. The House of Representatives ought to be able to survive for 3 years. We of the Australian Labor Party won in 1972. We were pushed to an election again in 1974 and we won and then we did not take office, as a Parliament, until July of 1974. We are not even half way through our life. People are saying that the Government is unpopular. So are some State governments unpopular, but they do not have a body like the Senate that can say: 'We will not give you the necessary finance for the responsibilities of government unless you have an election.' 
It ought to be observed that the Opposition Parties are not turning down the whole of the Government's financial program. They are turning down, or trying to turn down, $9 billion out of $22 billion. This again is another reason why the antiquated practices that the Senate tries to perpetrate upon us should be re-thought. No government of either political character that introduces a Budget should ever have any fear that its passage will be other than delayed in the Senate. It ought to be assured of that. A party cannot govern if every time there is a Supply Bill the threat is exercised that the measure will not be passed. On this occasion the Opposition is not only stopping new initiatives; it is preventing the implementation of programs already honestly and legally entered into. When anybody wants to do that I ask: Who is being unconstitutional? Surely that is the question that members of this Parliament with any pride in parliamentary institutions ought to be prepared to ask. 
The Opposition has dragged in something extraneous and has said that it is giving the Government the opportunity of going before its masters, the people of Australia. That is nonsense. The program and Budget of this Government provide a better plan than any alternative to get Australia out of the difficulties it is in. The Opposition does not have an alternative program. We ought to be given the chance to see our  term through. If we are given a chance we are going to be in office a long time. Candidly, I believe that that is the reason why the Opposition is endeavouring to do what it is doing. It is not taking into consideration constitutionality or anything else but is being guided only by sheer political expediency. 
It will be a sad day if a  Senate;  is able to get away with this. I have been asked and I will put my answer on record here- what I would do if the numbers situation were reversed. I would assert the same as I am asserting now. I would stand for the rights of this House against the Senate. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Motion ( by  Mr Daly)  agreed to: 
That the honourable member's time be extended. 
This Government has never been defeated on the floor of this House. Its numbers are not very greatly above those of the Opposition. In the last 12 months or so of the life of the previous Government it would have been rejected if it had been forced to the people. We did not seek to do that. That Government was able to see out its proper time and endeavour in that time to resuscitate its stocks so far as public opinion was concerned. I believe that is the rule that ought to operate. Any government having the numbers here should be assured of being able to continue for the life of the Parliament unless the Prime Minister seeks a dissolution to resolve some great issue. There always has to be the right to have a dissolution if that is wanted but there should not be a right exercisable in another place to force another representative chamber to election. I hope that commonsense may yet prevail in the days that remain before this country could be plunged into economic and social chaos. 
The Treasurer earlier indicated the sorts of things that can happen. They have not happened yet. One does not want to become unduly alarmist but they can happen if certain other things do not happen. The only other thing that needs to happen is for some senators to change their minds upon the stand that they have chosen to take so far in this highly important matter. 
I believe that the level of expenditure required in Australia by modern government, no matter who conducts it, is such that once a Budget is made and agreed to by the House of Representatives it cannot be undone anywhere else. It would be an act of irresponsibility to do so. It would be irresponsibility largely operating against a background of ignorance about the full circumstances. I am sure that those who are trying to do what they are doing now have not thought through the consequences of their actions. I repeat that when an action is taken the consequences ought to be contemplated and those who take the action have responsibility for the consequences that follow. I suggest that this is the situation here. How long can we go on without a grant of Supply? I ask that question quite seriously. Who should resolve this matter? I think in this stand the resolution can come from only one direction, that is, by the Senate changing its attitude and by this House reasserting its fundamental, historical and commonsense rights. 
-Order! The Leader of the National Country Party will remain silent. 
I address my question to the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, who assists the Prime Minister in respect of early childhood services. Is he able to give the House any information on the effect of delay in the passage of the Budget on the Government's early childhood services program? 
I give notice that on general business day No. 11 I propose to move: 
That this House expresses its serious concern and deplores the action of the Government in its implementation of the Amnesty for Illegal Immigrants'. This House calls on the Minister to- 
extend the period of amnesty from 3 months to 12 months; 
precisely lay out the conditions surrounding the granting of amnesty; 
appoint an independent committee of appeal comprised of representatives of our ethnic communities to investigate cases where amnesty has been refused. 
Is the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs aware that his Government's spending cutbacks have resulted in the termination of the 12-month course for interpreters and translators at the Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology? In the light of the pressing need for translation and interpreter services for our ethnic communities, will the Minister inform the House of the steps he will take to make available the funds to allow the course to continue? Can the Minister explain why the translators and interpreters course in Canberra, where there is no substantial concentration of non-English speaking citizens, has been approved while those capital cities with large ethnic communities miss out? In the light of the difficulties experienced by graduates of last year's interpreter and translator course in obtaining employment with those government departments that most need multilingual staff, will the Minister inform the House of the steps he is taking to ensure that government wage fixing bodies establish suitable rates and positions for professional translators and interpreters? 
-I regard this matter as certainly of some public importance. Honourable members have stood previously on the floor of this House denying that their contribution to the debate is in any way determined by party political considerations. Today I must ask honourable members to shed a little of their customary cynicism and to believe me when I say that what is at stake is not any political point scoring. What is at stake is the happiness of over 30 000 people. I plead with members on the Government benches to keep this point well in mind. We are not dealing in debating points, we are not out to make political capital. We are dealing with people. For the most part they are very frightened people, people who have lived in daily fear of deportation, hiding their identity from their employers, afraid to communicate with their family and friends, moving from house to house for fear of detection, a prey to the exploiters and manipulators in this society. We do not know how many of these people live in our country, but let us accept the figure that the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  gave in the House last week of 32 000. All these people are affected by the current offer of an amnesty for illegal immigrants, an amnesty that I believe needs modification if it is to work. I believe that the proposal which I intend to put in good faith can allay a number of the fears and can make the amnesty operate. If the amnesty fails these people will continue to live lives of fear, as they have in the past. I sincerely believe that the amnesty in its present form will fail- and not because the Minister wants it to fail. I believe every member of this House wants to help these unfortunate individuals out of their predicament. The real reason that the amnesty seems doomed to failure is that the people directly affected, the illegal immigrants and their community spokesmen, were not consulted before it was introduced. Problems that spring to the minds of the people immediately affected were not even considered when the amnesty terms were announced. I have been unfairly accused of trying to obstruct the amnesty. Believe me, nothing could be further from the truth. My electorate has one of the highest group ethnic concentrations in this country. Much of our electorate work is taken up with the problems of illegal immigrants. I have continually pressed for an amnesty to be announced. I welcomed the statement made by the previous Minister,  Senator James  McClelland, at the Migrant Workers' Conference last November when he assured representatives of the ethnic Press that he would not force to leave this country anyone who has established himself or herself as a viable citizen. I welcomed the amnesty when it was announced by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and confirmed by the new Minister. 
Any reservations which I have expressed publicly or privately about the amnesty have mirrored the objections put to me by members of our ethnic communities. I fervently wish to see the amnesty succeed, but I am not speaking on my own behalf today. I am speaking on behalf of the spokesmen for our ethnic communities who have made contact with me and who have asked me to plead their case, the case of their friends and their countrymen. It is at their request that I ask the Minister to adopt the following proposals as the conditions of the amnesty. The first proposal is that the time allowed for the amnesty be extended from the present period of 3 months to one year. As the matter stands, the amnesty expires on 30 April this year. I propose that it be extended to 31 December. Secondly I propose that the amnesty be extended to all people who were living in Australia on or before 31 December and to those who wish to settle here and who wish to become a viable part of the Australian society. The amnesty should be extended to all law abiding people who wish to remain in this country. Further, offences related to the status of these people as illegal immigrants should not be regarded as crimes in the sense of disqualifying them from the amnesty. Thirdly I propose that an independent tribunal be established, headed by a member of the judiciary and consisting of representatives of ethnic communities, to hear appeals from persons ruled ineligible for the amnesty. 
The first proposal- the extension of time from 3 months to 12 months- is absolutely essential. As I have already pointed out, we are dealing with very frightened people, people to whom every official represents a threat. Many of these people come from countries in which the bureaucracy does not enjoy the same reputation for impartiality that our Public Service enjoys. The lack of response to the current amnesty offer and, for that matter, the offer made by  Mr Grassby  before this one, illustrates the depth of that suspicion. The reaction from many of the people affected is that the amnesty is some sort of trick. If the amnesty is to work time must be given for people to overcome their fear and suspicion, time for one, two or three of their number to surface, to test the response and to report back to their friends that the offer is a genuine one. Even without this suspicion there is still the matter of time. As one of my Turkish friends pointed out, news travels very slowly in their community. Many of the potential beneficiaries of the amnesty are working on farms and in the country. It will take them time to learn of the offer. What possible difference can there be if the offer is extended for the period that I propose? 
Of course it must be made quite clear that the offer does not extend to people arriving after 3 1 December. This proviso must be made widely known overseas. I suggest to the Minister that his overseas representatives redouble their efforts to ensure that the amnesty offer is not seized upon by unscrupulous travel agents as yet another money-making lurk. Already a trickle of people who have arrived in this country since 31 December have been led to believe that they will be accepted under the amnesty. It is an old and very depressing story. Gullible folk are persuaded to part with their savings under the mistaken belief that, no matter what the Australian immigration officials say, they will gain permanent residency when they get to Australia. Last year- this is no fanciful proposition- a Melbourne travel agent was convicted of theft by deception, as a result of a complaint laid in my office. He was attempting to extort money on the promise that his friend in the Immigration Department could help the individual to stay in Australia. It is this kind of exploitation that makes it so important that the amnesty should succeed. 
One man who applied under the amnesty assures me that he was told by an official at Australia House that, despite the fact that his application to migrate had been rejected, he could change his status on arrival if he paid his own way out here on a visitors' visa. But to return to the proposal, it really makes no difference if the amnesty is extended from 3 months to 12 months except that it gives more time for the amnesty to work and that it makes it more likely that the plight of these unfortunate people can be solved once and for all. 
I turn to my second suggestion. It is that the amnesty should be extended to those people who were in this country on or before 3 1 December 1975 and further that the only reason for refusing permanent residency should be evidence of criminal activity unrelated to their status as visitors to this country. I stress that the last clause, 'unrelated to their status as visitors 'is one to bear in mind. One cause of great concern amongst our ethnic communities is the proviso that under the existing conditions the amnesty is not available to people who have committed criminal offences. The great fear these people have is that because their illegal status has forced them again and again to break the law they will be denied the benefit of the amnesty. Many of them have not paid taxes. They have given false names to buy property and to obtain drivers' licences. When one looks at the various aspects of this matter one can see that it is certainly complex. 
What advice, for instance, am I to give to one young man who approached me over the amnesty. He came to this country more then 10 years ago using a false name and under the pretence that he was the son of an Australian citizen. Since then he has been naturalised. He has completed a tertiary degree and found himself a good job under his false name. As a matter of conscience he wishes to take advantage of the amnesty. He wants to live under his rightful name. I ask the Minister: Is he eligible under the amnesty? Those questions have to be answered. 
I ask the Minister to give an answer taking into account all the other factors that are involved. I put it to the Minister that we are just applying the old conditions for a change of visa status. What does the amnesty mean if a person can change his or her status to permanent resident only if their skills are required. It seems that we are hearing nothing more than empty words because we are back to where we started. 
This brings me to another aspect of my proposal. The amnesty as it stands is open only to those people whose visas had expired on 31 December 1975. What about the people who have done the right thing and over a period of time have renewed their visas? It has to be made clear whether they also come within the proposal. What about students? What about people who come to Australia on student visas? Will they benefit under the amnesty arrangement? This is another question that has to be answered. The conditions of the amnesty have to be spelt out. It appears to me that they have to change. Let us be serious about this matter and not lead people up the garden path. We should not lead people to believe the amnesty means something that it does not. People are apprehensive about the clear meaning of the amnesty. 
This brings me to my third and final suggestion. I propose that an independent appeal tribunal should be set up. Such a tribunal which would deal with individuals should be headed by a member of the judiciary. The other day I mentioned a case to the Minister which concerned the argument of whether a person has paid his debt to society no matter where that person may have been in breach of the law. A person from the Minister's Department should not make the final decision as to whether a person comes within the scope of the amnesty. An independent tribunal should be set up to deal with such matters. Obviously no one wants to make Australia a haven for professional criminals. What I am suggesting is that an independent tribunal should be established to work in the way that I have indicated. 
No country should be more aware than Australia that people who have paid their debt to society have left their mark on their new country. Names that come to mind are Francis Greenway who was our first great architect, Lawrence Halloran and John Pascoe Fawkner Cox who was the founder of the colony in Victoria. It is an impressive list and every one of those people would be automatically disqualified under the present conditions of the amnesty. Without wishing to be personal, I point out that the honourable member for Mackellar's ancestor arrived on our shores under somewhat of a cloud and the mother of the first of the distinguished line of W. C. Wentworths arrived on our shores as a convicted person. 
An appeal tribunal of the nature that I propose could invite and encourage people other than those who fear the law to come forward. People who believe that they have a case that could stand up could go before such a tribunal. If merit is on their side they should be heard not by individuals but by an appeal tribunal consisting of people from the ethnic communities. I can only hope that my advocacy of this case has its effect and that honourable members will seize the opportunity to demonstrate their compassion and concern. I believe that the 3 proposals I have put forward are reasonable. As a matter of urgency I ask the Minister to accept my proposals as a matter of principle. I ask him to assure the House that he will take whatever steps are necessary to give effect to the principles contained in the proposals I have put to him. The proposals have been put in good faith. I would be only too pleased to co-operate and assist the Minister in any way that I possibly can. I believe that the proposals are reasonable and I ask the Minister to accept them in the way in which they have been put forward. 
-At the outset I would like to convey to you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  my congratulations. I also congratulate those honourable members who have made their maiden speeches. I would like you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  to convey to the  Speaker  my sincere congratulations on his elevation to his position. I sincerely trust that his term in the high office as the.  Speaker  of this House will be satisfying to himself, of some credit to the Australian people in general and certainly of some advantage to this place, the Parliament of Australia. I rise in this debate to canvass some of the matters that have been raised in the Governor-General's Speech. At the outset I would like to make some reference to the honourable member for Mortein who put on his usual show for the newly initiated members. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Is the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs aware that the Australian office in Cyprus is refusing to issue visitor visas to legitimate tourists seeking to visit Australia? Will the Minister inform the House whether the failure to issue visas is related to the Government's closing down of the consulate in Nicosia, which is widely condemned by our own Cypriot community? Has the Minister deliberately set out to reverse the policy of the previous Government of sympathetic and speedy assistance to Cypriot refugees with links in Australia? 
Is the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations aware that the cutbacks implemented by the Government in the Public Service sector have adversely affected the work of the Commonwealth Arbitration Inspectorate, to the extent that workers in general- and migrants and rural workers in particular- will be at the mercy of unscrupulous employers who will be more able to abrogate their obligation to meet standard award wages and conditions? Severe restrictions on travel have restricted the ambit for Arbitration Inspectors to police awards generally, particularly in the country areas. Will the Minister assure the House that he will take whatever steps are necessary to ensure proper and adequate protection for workers throughout Australia? 
-The hypocrisy that flows through the arguments from honourable members opposite certainly has to be heard to be believed. When talking about the fact that there were insufficient funds to carry out programs that were designed and implemented by the previous Government, I just wonder what sorts of priorities the Government has looked at when it has examined the issue of child care. 
There are 2 actions which really sum the attitude of the Government and which really lay bare its cynicism and its hypocrisy. The first was the reintroduction of the superphosphate bounty and the second was its attitude to the investment allowance and the $9m axed from the Budget for the Children's Commission's child care projects. On the one hand the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  will spare no expense in feather-bedding his already wealthy cronies, to the extent that I think 2 1 per cent of the farmers receive 80 per cent of the superphosphate bounty, and the Prime Minister himself is the recipient of something like $6,000 a year. 
On the other hand, he is happy to dash the hopes of thousands of parents and children throughout Australia. In the short time he has been in office the Prime Minister has time after time trodden on the hopes and the aspirations of the defenceless. Almost every cutback in expenditure he has introduced has been aimed at the weakest and least protected groups in our communitythe pensioners, the Aborigines, the migrants, the people who are trying to re-establish themselves by means of retraining schemes, the unemployed, and now the children. What is proposed is not just a cut in expenditure. What is at stake is not some bureaucratic master plan, not some abstract program drawn up by some academic theorists. These programs represent the living, breathing hopes and the involvement of thousands of parents and children. 
We talk about the philosophy spelt out by the Prime Minister a few days ago, but answers given to questions asked of the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  in another place have contradicted that time and time again. I challenge the Government to tell us when it is going to come clean. When is it going to say in which areas the cuts are to be made, and by what criteria are they to be made?  Senator Grimes  asked the Minister for Social Security whether she would give a detailed statement on cuts to the proposed Children's Commission expenditure. He went on to ask: 
Will the Minister also clarify her statement that there will be a slowing down of approved programs? 
To that question the Minister replied: 
All the projects for which approval had been given- to the extent of $65m- will proceed. We are talking about the fact that the advisory committees in the various States of Australia have innumerable applications, totalling something like 600 . . . 
We have been told by the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  that only 5 projects were involved. But what about the other 595 projects? What consideration will be given to them? It is obvious that what the Minister in another place has been saying - 
Let us talk about approved applications. The Government says on the one hand that all applications will be met. Then, on the other hand, we have  Senator Guilfoyle  telling us that funds will be provided to the extent of $65m. The amount of $9m has been axed from the amount being made available.  Senator Guilfoyle  was questioned further by  Senator Melzer,  who asked where the cuts would be made and on what criteria they would be made.  Senator Guilfoyle  said that she had received from the States particulars of the projects that would be slowed down as a part of the Budget strategy which will be applied to this area. If that is the case, what about the rest of the projects? There is a whole stream of projects, as the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  - 
No, I am talking now about the projects that were approved under the Labor Administration. There is insufficient money left, obviously, to fund the remainder of those projects. I challenge the Minister and the Government to come clean, to stop beating about the bush and to tell us what cuts are going to be made, where they are going to be made, and which projects are going to be axed. Further to that, when the previous Administration spelt out the principle of supplying 75 per cent of the recurrent costs in respect of salaries, it was to be applied on the basis of particular criteria to ensure that the day care institutions or kindergartens would be extended to cover the overall area of child care. Now I challenge the Minister for Health again to come clean and tell us what criteria are to be used in supplying the funds to pay the salaries and wages under those circumstances. If the criteria we put forward were met what money would be made available for further projects? 
It was said that we of the Labor Party had moved away from the community and established central control but there is nothing further from the truth than that statement. We did involve communities. People came forward and indicated local projects needed in their communities. That is the basis on which the criteria ought to be established. There should be no Taj Mahals set up as kindergartens to accommodate very few children for a brief period of time. The maximum amount of child day care ought to be met from the funds that are available. If the Government proceeds along the lines referred to by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith there will be savage cuts in areas where these facilities are most needed. 
Honourable senators in another place, try as they may, cannot get answers to the questions we have posed. I understand, as the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith said, that a Press statement is to be issued. The Minister for Social Security has an obligation to the Australian community and to people interested in child welfare to spell out the answers to the questions. For instance, we do not accept that the pre-schools accommodating play groups or mothers clubs are integrated in the way intended by the Labor Government. If they are integrated it should mean that there is sessional and full time care. The guidelines should be more specific. Most areas will have some need for full time care. Preschools and groups seeking funds should satisfy the Interim Committee for the Childrens Commission that the needs of the community have been investigated fully. 
There should be a rational use of resources. For example, in a community where there are several pre-school centres, not all need to provide full day care but every community must have some full day care facilities provided. Parents who work shift work need centres that are open while they are at work and some areas will need centres open 24 hours a day. There is a whole range of areas of need and it ought to be fully examined. We should not get the run around, and neither should the community get the run around that it is getting from the Government at the moment. If the Government is going to axe $9m as it announced it should tell us which areas are affected and announce the criteria on which projects in each of the States are to be selected. In regard to the small portion to be covered by the $ 1.75m in the slowing down process, the Government has an obligation to spell out clearly and unequivocally the extent of the scheme and the projects which are going to be axed in each of the States concerned which represent the balance of the money that has been made available. The Government is obliged to do this for the Australian people. There has been enough hedging already. The Government ought to get down to business and tell us the truth. 
-I am prompted to speak again in the AddressinReply debate to the Governor-General's Speech in support of the amendment. After listening to some of the speeches of honourable gentlemen opposite, and in particular to that of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and those of the members of his Cabinet, and as one reads the purple prose that fell from the lips of the Governor-General, one would be led to believe that the promised land was just around the corner. However, the decisions of the Government in the recent past, and more particularly perhaps in the last few days, have put paid to the hopes and aspirations of the under-privileged in our community. The amendment is timely, and it raises the question of the transfer of resources from those on middle and low incomes to those on incomes of a higher level. It also raises the question of the rights of parliamentary democracy to prevail without the intrusion by individuals who are not elected by the people of this country and to protect the rights of parliamentarians to carry out their obligations to the people who elect them without interference from the Commonwealth police or any other organisation. 
The first area of responsibility with which I would like to deal is that which comes within the province of the first custodian of the law in this country, the Attorney-General. The performance of the present Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  so far has hardly given any joy to those who fear that their civil liberties may be at risk. They would hardly be impressed by the recent exhibition of this jackboot democracy. During the first few months of being Attorney-General the honourable member for Wentworth has managed to establish a firm reputation for hypocrisy and sanctimoniousness. 
-Is the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs aware that whilst additional funds have been made available to the Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology to allow the continuation of the translator and interpreter courses for 1976, following a question asked in the House by me, it is believed that funding as of next year will be on a triennial basis and that funds will be distributed through the Commission on Advanced Education, which finances the Institute on a per capita basis without earmarking funds? In view of other pressures for finances within that Institution, there is no guarantee that the courses will be funded in 1977. Will the Minister assure the House and those people running the courses that funds will be specifically earmarked for the courses in 1 977 to allow the rational planning and extension of these vital courses? 
-The Opposition supports the proposal to set up once again the Select Committee on Specific Learning Difficulties. A select committee inquiring into the subject of specific learning difficulties was set up during the life of the previous Parliament. It is true that an enormous amount of work was done  on the matter and that the committee was nearing a stage where a report could have been presented to the Parliament. Naturally enough the new Committee will be given access to the documentation and transcripts of evidence taken by the previous committee. So far as I was concerned it was a pleasure to serve on the previous committee, in sharp distinction I suppose from serving on some of the committees that were mentioned earlier today. For example, on the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence a Party position was taken. In all honesty I would have to say that the honourable members who were on the previous Select Committee on Specific Learning Difficulties from either side of the House co-operated. Apparently this was in sharp distinction from the attitude taken by members of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, whose appointment we debated here this afternoon. 
If we are to entertain the committee system and if there are issues on which there is common ground, why waste the time of this Parliament? Why waste the time of each other? Why have people rotting on the back benches when their application to a particular issue and their experience and expertise can be applied in reaching a decision on a matter about which we are on common ground? Surely we are not that far apart on issues of social justice that measures which are the basis of the setting up of the Committee cannot be given priority. 
Notwithstanding the fact that the previous Committee was nearing the conclusion of its work, I am looking forward to participating in the preparation of the final report which was to have been tabled at the latest on 25 August 1 976. In this respect I would like to suggest that the Committee be set up as quickly as possible. I think that the Committee should comprise honourable members who will apply themselves to the task of looking at the reams of evidence that have been given by the people who have appeared before the previous Committee. I am pleased to say that the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  has indicated to me that he would be only too happy to serve on the Committee and assist in the preparation of that vital report to this Parliament. 
-He might not be on the front bench. I think that the honourable member has made a rather indiscreet comment. I think the exMinister for Education has served this Parliament worthily and well and it ill becomes the honourable member to make such a remark. The honourable member for Fremantle has a wealth of experience and I am sure his dedication to the preparation of this report would be welcomed by members on the Government benches who have served on the Committee and who would like to see the best report made in the interests of the people concerned. 
I would like to suggest that every effort should be made to get the Committee operating as soon as possible. It is surely the obligation of the Opposition to nominate to the Committee people who are able to do effective work on the Committee. I think that our objective ought to be to make the report available very much earlier than 25 August. This means that the report should be tabled either in full or in part at an earlier date. I believe that either short-term or long-term recommendations ought to be made available to the Government when it is considering allocations in the forthcoming Budget. The Government can consider this very important subject and make its allocations accordingly. I acknowledge that a lot of work will be involved if we are to report by the due date which will be after the Budget is presented. I do not say this in any derogatory sense, but the implementation of any recommendation could be delayed by virtue of the fact that money would not be available from the Budget. Therefore I think that some considerations should be given to the presentation of an earlier report, either in part or in toto, depending on our capacity to reach our final conclusions, so that the Government can give due and proper consideration to this important matter when considering what might be allocated in the Budget. 
There has been much argument about the terms of reference of the Committee. The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  outlined in detail in a document covering 3 pages the terms of reference of the Committee which are in line with the terms of reference of the previous Committee. The terms of reference are long and involved. If the Committee were finally to reduce the problem down to fine detail and comes up with a definition that merely fits the whole stream of words that are used in the terms of reference it would seem to me that the Committee would have failed. I think that surely such a conclusion would not be in the minds of the vast majority of the people who have served on the Committee. 
As I have pointed out, I think that the report should be framed in 2 parts. Surely there should be short-term and long-term recommendations. I do not think that we should be tied in with the fine definition of the SPELD operation. I think that we should be looking further afield. I think that the Committee in itself has to determine guidelines for the future in many other directions. The socio-economic effects on the capacity of people to fully produce what they are capable of should be considered and ultimately reported on. Then the Parliament can determine by legislation or other means measures to assist people in those difficult situations. 
I would like to say once again that I think the ambit of the report and the recommendations flowing from it in the short term should not be held up because if they are they will not be able to be considered in the Budget context. Perhaps we should apply ourselves to presenting an interim report to allow the Government to determine what it may or should consider up to that point. 
I would like to pay a tribute to the members of the previous Committee, namely the honourable members for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman),  Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh),  Moore  (Mr Hyde)  who took the place of the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson).  In particular I would like to pay a tribute to our absent brethren who are no longer with us. I am sure that other members of the previous Committee on the other side of the House would agree with me that  Dr Gun,  the previous member for Kingston,  Mr Oldmeadow,  the previous member for Holt, and in particular  Mr Race  Mathews, the previous member for Casey, who was  Chairman  of the Committee, all worked laboriously in an effort to do what they could. Reams of evidence were taken and their efforts and dedication surely ought to be noted in  Hansard.  The staff of the Committee, namely Miss Jill Scheetz,  Dr John  Elkins,  Dr Maggs  and  Mr Nairn  at all times worked very hard and were able to service the Committee. In passing I would like to suggest that a committee can work efficiently only if there is efficient staff behind it. 
If you want to crucify a committee at birth you simply cut off its funds. I put it to the Government once again that on the one hand it is talking about a very serious matter when it speaks in terms of committees; on the other hand when it talks about curtailing the servicing of committees it is wasting the time of committees if it does not provide the wherewithal for them to operate in an efficient manner. 
I would also indicate that the people who have given evidence- the parents in the community, representatives from education departments in each of the States and representatives from the 
Australian Broadcasting Commission- all cooperated to endeavour to put forward their expertise. In our examination of the situation at large these people produced their material, they showed what the whole subject meant and what they were doing in educating or endeavouring to educate children and adults. The staff of the Australian Broadcasting Commission has been criticised along with the staff of a lot of other similar organisations, but the co-operation that the Committee has received from the ABC in respect of this matter has been nonpareil. We should not be supercritical of the ABC. This is an area that should be investigated, particularly in the short term. The honourable member for Moore smiles. 
It seems to me that in this area funds could be made available so that something can be done in a practical sense. I am talking in shorthand because reams of material have been put before the Committee. I sincerely hope and trust that it can be included in the report. Notwithstanding the complexities of the subject, all members of the Committee pulled their weight. It was a cooperative effort. We can all be very proud of the work that we have done so far. I sincerely hope and trust that those honourable members who will serve on the Committee in the near future will associate themselves with the report, which will be a manifestation of the work that has been carried out. I am very confident that the quality of the report will reflect the effort that has been made by everybody concerned. I put it to Government representatives that, when the report is being finalised, the Committee's lifeblood should not be choked off. The Committee should be given the finance to carry out in the short term the recommendations that I am sure will follow. Members of the Committee should apply themselves to their work in a broad sense, not be frightened by the terms of reference, and see what can be done to assist the people who have specific learning difficulties. I may have been one myself. This could be a case history. 1 am sure if the new members of the Committee have the dedication of purpose that has been shown so far we will succeed in producing a very fine report. 
I should like to take up a point raised by the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  in respect of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. I take issue with the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  on the conflict and his obligation to come clean with the Australian people. The Minister has indicated clearly that there is going to be another inquiry. There have been  1  inquiries into this matter in about 4 years and the Priorities Review Staff also had a view on the subject. I challenge the Minister to say whether or not he agrees with the words of the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers),  who said in another place: 
Do not raise the Australian Broadcasting Commission. The Australian Labor Party has been leaning on it for years. It is full of the Labor Party s supporters and has been pumping out the Labor Party's propaganda year in and year out. That is not a matter of opinion; it is a matter of notoriety. The sooner it is cleaned up the better as far as I am concerned. It is rather remarkable that honourable senators opposite always rush to the defence of their friends. 
I challenge the Minister to say whether he agrees with that statement in relation to the people who are involved with the Australian Broadcasting Commission. If the Minister has enough courage he will come out and say that he does agree, but what end do we reach by going through the poppycock of inquiry after inquiry? I agree that the article referred to by the honourable member for Port Adelaide opens up the whole field. What has happened over a period of time is that the individuals in the media have had an armchair ride. The people who import films into this country and who have destroyed Australian potential and talent are represented by members on the Government side. They believe that the people who want to export Australian talent, those who are going to reduce to a minimum the Australian content in Australian television, are going about it objectively. 
Eventually the Minister or the Government has to make a decision on whether the ABC is going to be shackled and not able to act as an independent organisation in presenting to the Australian people that which they desire to see. If the Government is going to do that and if it is going to hand the ABC over to private individuals, it should have enough guts to come out and say so. It should have enough guts not to pull the wool over people's eyes, but to say that it joins with the Federation of Australian Commercial Television Stations, which has continually monopolised the media. As the honourable member for Port Adelaide said, the reason for this reaction and the reason that a campaign is being mounted to control the whole band of broadcasting as well as television is that the ABC is becoming a threat. It seems to me that that is consistent, as far as the Government is concerned, with the facts put before a committee of the previous Government when it was suggested that perhaps there was an argument that the then Opposition opposed having increased numbers of broadcasting stations because there were too many in the field at that time. They said that if it were the case that the Government decided there would be an increase in the number of outlets to consumers - 
You would not know. You would be better off back in the cow bail where you belong. The honourable member for Hume continually interjects. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member for Hume will cease interjecting. 
The people from the Federation believe that there should not be any further outlets, but that if there are, they should come under the control of one organisation. We have here exactly the same proposition being spelled put by the representatives of the Government. If that is not the case, let us have an answer from them. We should be told clearly and unequivocally that the Government disagrees with the view put by  Senator Withers  and that the independence of the Australian Broadcasting Commission is fundamental. 
You would not know. You are only a lap dog to the Prime Minister. 
He cannot even count. He has nearly been knocked over once. 
I apologise once again,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  for my reaction to individuals who should know a little better, as they sit on the front bench on the Government side. I will return to the point I was making. I think that the Government has a clear responsibility. There is a conflict in the statements made by  Senator Withers  and by the Minister who is responsible for this area. The Minister has got to come clean with those who are dependent on his answer. The Federation of Australian Commercial Television Stations has had a bonanza. As I said before, it imports films into this country at a fraction of their former cost and shows them after they have been worn out in the United States. It has dumped television programs on to the Australian consumer. This can in no way assist Australian talent. It can in no way increase the Australian content in programs. I make the point very clearly that in no way do the people who hold television licences at the present moment give effect to their obligations under the terms of the licences they hold. If honourable members refer back to the inquiries which were held and the terms on which licences were issued they will realise that the percentage of Australian content in programs should be far removed from what it is at the present moment. 
I challenge the Minister once again to tell this House in the future what he intends to do about this. Does he intend to change the terms of the licences? Does he intend to require the Federation of Australian Commercial Television Stations to adhere to their obligations? The Minister is obligated to ensure that the same fate will not befall the Australian Broadcasting Commission as a result of its coming under the control of the commercial bodies. This proposition has been put time and time again by the commercial stations and it has again been raised. There has been inquiry after inquiry. There is enough information available to enable the Minister to make up his own mind. If there is a conflict between  Senator Withers  and the Minister then this House should be told what it is all about. 
Last but not least I point out that ethnic community radio is at risk because the Government intends to hand it over to private enterprise. The Government is under an obligation to the individuals who put its supporters on the benches opposite to ensure that all outlets in radio and television, irrespective of whether they are in the general area or are in ethnic or access radio areas, and that all commercial broadcasting and television stations will abide by the philosophy spelt out by the people to whom I have referred and who presented the reports. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I am very interested to know that the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  recognises at least 2 facts. The first is that the overall majority of people who are subject to and affected by the Government's policy on dole bludgeoning are people who would work if they could work. They do not wish to impose themselves on society. The second is a tacit recognition that the situation which confronts us in terms of unemployment is not solely the previous Government's responsibility. It took a long time to recognise that fact. One thing which this Government has established repeatedly is that it is a government intent on attacking the little people, the groups in our community least able to defend themselves- the pensioners, the migrants, the children in need of day care, those who need retraining opportunities and the like. Now it is attacking the unemployed. It is not a pleasant thing to be out of work. For the overwhelming majority of the unemployed it is a great strain. To be unemployed represents a threat to the individual's sense of his or her worth; a threat to his or her self image; a threat to his or her sense of pride and self respect. It is even more of a strain when the individual concerned is the head of the family. The family has previously looked to this individual as the breadwinner, the head of the household. 
My electorate of Melbourne has one of the highest proportions of unemployed in Australia. Through my office I come in contact with many of these people. I know their genuine distress at being out of work, the very real attempts they have made to find employment and the desperate attempts they make to keep alive their sense of pride and self reliance. But what has been the response of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  and the Government to their plight? He and his Government are bent on increasing the humiliation that these people are already experiencing. He has introduced a series of administrative regulations that treat these people as criminalsnot as people who need compassion, not as people who require a better mode of attention than they will receive in the light of the introduction of the new provisions under which they will be entitled to receive the unemployment benefit and not as people who need a helping hand. People who are not criminals are being treated as cheats and bludgers. That they are cheats and bludgers seems to be the cry from supporters of the the Government at the drop of the hat. This is a return to the philosophy of the work houses of the nineteenth century- the philosophy that it is not only a misfortune but also a crime to be poor, that any assistance should be made as distasteful as possible and that at every opportunity those requiring assistance should be humiliated. 
As I said before, there are great concentrations of unemployed in and around the Melbourne area. Many of the first people to be laid off work are the unskilled workers. Many of them live in our ethnic communities. We now have the situation where everyone registered for the unemployment benefit is to be forced to take unskilled work if it is offered to them. In other words, skilled professionals will be competing for unskilled positions- the very positions that are in the greatest demand, which means that it will be even more difficult for the unskilled worker to get back into the work force. Let us not forget that at the same time the Minister is making it increasingly difficult, through his cutbacks in the National Employment and Training Scheme, for people to be retrained. 
The Minister is seeking to drive people away from the Commonwealth Employment Service offices. Once they stop going there, once their benefits are cut off, he will be able to claim that the number of unemployed has decreased. He will not mention that in the process the number of homeless people has increased. He will not have to do so because they are one segment of the community that no one bothers to count. But that will be the effect of these new restrictions. People will be forced that one step further down the ladder into the skid row population. Many thousands of people exist under those circumstances in and around the electorate of Melbourne. Living in my electorate is a large number of what might be called marginal men- men who are only a step away from becoming the homeless men in our society. Quite a large percentage of those men are alcoholics. Many of them could go on to the invalid pension if they wished to do so and spare themselves the worry of having their unemployment benefit terminated, but they do not want to take that course of action. That is the easy way out. They still live in the hope that they can get back into the work force and that they are not going to be dependent upon handouts for the rest of their lives. 
These men are already being harassed repeatedly by petty restrictions. Hardly a week seems to go by without one of these men approaching my office seeking assistance. In most cases they have had their benefits terminated on a technicality. In most cases they have lodged an appeal against the termination and in most cases they will win their appeals. I would like the Minister to explain to the House and to those people just how they are supposed to live during the time that they are waiting for their appeals to be heard. One of the immediate effects of these new restrictions will be a great increase in the number of cases in which benefits are terminated on a technicality. It is inevitable that the time it takes to hear an appeal will be greatly increased. It will probably double since the Public Service staff ceilings will not allow the appeal tribunal to increase its numbers, nor sit at times when it is necessary to sit to overcome the waiting list that will be increased by the actions of the Government. 
Let us look at the figure for Victoria since the setting up of the appeals tribunal, which was another of the initiatives of the Labor Government to help people and which is another likely candidate for the axe given this Government's very sorry record since it has been in office. From 10 February 1975 to 29 February 1976, 5349 appeals were lodged against the termination of social security benefits. The overwhelming majority of those concerned the unemployment benefit. Of those appeals 1317 were not upheld. Less than 25 per cent of the appeals lodged were not upheld. On the other hand, 323 1 appealsover 60 per cent of the appeals lodged- were upheld either by the tribunal or as a result of a change of heart by the Department. In other words, 60 per cent of the people taken off the unemployment benefit were unjustly . penalised. The mistake lay not with them but with the Department. 
Let us look at another disturbing statistic. For the 3 months ending September 1975 the average time taken to process an appeal was 47.9 days. For the 3 months ending December 1975 the average time taken was 56 days. Not only is the number of appeals increasing but also the time it takes to hear an appeal is getting longer. Just how are these people supposed to support themselves while they are waiting for an appeal to be heard? Graeme Brewer's study,  Workers Without Jobs,  which was published in Melbourne in October 1 975, and which is based on a sample of the people registered with the CES, found that 80 per cent of the sample aged 2 1 years or over had less than $400 in savings when they became unemployed and that 40 per cent had no savings at all. One of the inevitable effects of the imposition of these quite arbitrary and quite unjustified regulations is that the present situation will worsen. We are not in fact attending to the people who are screaming out for attention because of their plight. The number of people whose benefit payments are going to be terminated is going to increase greatly. I think that inevitably the number of appeals will increase. The time it will take in the future for an appeal to be heard must lengthen. It has already an average of 2 months. Will it be 4 months or 6 months? 
Just how are these people to survive? The answer is that many of them will not survive. For many of them it will be the final straw, the final push, the end of their battle for self-respect. They will become part of the invisible, part of the people we love to forget- the forgotten people, the world of the homeless. I ask the Minister to make one small concession. I ask him to recognise that the new regulations he has introduced will greatly increase the number of people being taken off the unemployment benefit for technical reasons and therefore the number of people who will appeal against the decision to terminate the payment of the benefit to them. I ask him to consider paying the benefit to those people in the normal way while they are awaiting the outcome of their appeal. If there is money to recover, that can be done. The honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Millar)  may smile and laugh. He should consider the people who are unemployed. He might find himself in the same situation one of these days. I believe that only genuine cases would take advantage of this concession and that only people who knew that their benefit had been unjustly terminated would risk having to pay back the money. I call on the Minister and the Government to recognise the fact that people with limited or no resources cannot exist for 6, 8 or 12 weeks without some form of assistance. 
Let us examine what this debate is really all about. It is about a myth- a figment of the Government's and the media's imagination. It is about the myth of the 'dole bludger'- that wondrous beast who we are led to believe spends his time relaxing on the sands at Surfers Paradise sipping cocktails and tripping the light fantastic, and all on $36 a week. What a load of nonsense! . None of the studies that has been carried out by either the Department or independent sources, like the one to which I referred earlier, suggests that there is one iota of evidence to support the 'dole bludger' fantasy. In a Press statement last week the Minister stated that there is no evidence that cheating is widespread and that between May 1975 and January 1976 some. 1 12 0.00 beneficiaries were selected for visits- by the field officers of the Department of Social Security and that as a result of those visits 30 per cent of the cases had their benefits terminated. Are" those the 'dole bludgers' that the Minister is so concerned about? No. The statement goes on to make it quite clear that there is no suggestion of deception in every case and that in cases where there is ' blatant misrepresentation prosecution is considered and in most cases appropriate action is taken. As a result, in the last 10 months of 1975 there were 97 convictions throughout Australia for fraudulent dole claims. In the first 2 months of this year there were 6 convictions. In other words, a total of 103 out of the 38 000 who had their benefits terminated were convicted. 
Does the honourable member want to try to find out? If he did so he would know more about it. In even clearer perspective, 103 persons out of 112 000 people investigated might conceivably be described as 'dole bludgers'. They prepresent 0.09 per cent of the total number investigated. 
Will the Minister try to inform the House in some logical way just how much his new regulations will cost the Australian taxpayer to enforce, what it is going to cost to track down and convict this tiny percentage of rogues? Will he attempt to reconcile the increase in humiliation and suffering for the thousands of genuine cases of people who, through no fault of their own, find it impossible to find employment, with that figure of 0.09 per cent of convictions? Of course not. The whole exercise has nothing to do with the reality of unemployment in this country. It is an imagemaking exercise. It is an attempt to find a scapegoat. The new Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is bent on creating for himself an image as a strong, tough and ruthless leader. To satisfy that image-making process he has invented a problem that does not exist and, having created the illusion of a problem, he is now creating the illusion of having solved it. He is like Don Quixote, tilting at windmills in an effort to satisfy his ego. If in the process thousands of genuine people are hurt, who cares? Certainly this Government does not care. 
If time had permitted me, I would have liked to* attempt to lift this debate from the phoney newspaper garbled level at which it currently stands. We of the Labor Party believe proudly that if a principle is involved- we do believe in a principle of democratic socialism- there are other areas that we have to consider in order to keep people employed and not have a band of unemployed who are treated in this way when their state of unemployment is no fault of their own. It is a great tragedy that our Government, a government with a sense of vision of a better, more meaningful society, has been replaced by one that can see no further than the profit percentages and share dividends, that sees its role as a, maximisation of profit for the few wealthy shareholders and not the satisfaction of the legitimate hopes and aspirations of the vast mass of ordinary Australians. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I seek leave to make a statement. 
-At the outset I would like to say on behalf of Opposition members that we welcome the statement by the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  on this very important matter. Also we would like to acknowledge the work of the National Population Inquiry- the Borrie inquiry. That inquiry has laid down a basis and compiled statistical material which will be invaluable in future debates on this question. We believe that statement was not intended to go anywhere near as far as the Minister would desire. It does not deal seriously with the question of a population policy; nor does it go to the point of providing answers to our now outmoded attitude towards population policy in general, migration in particular and community relations in the true sense of the term. However, the statement opens up the whole question for debate. I trust that the ensuing debate at least will lead to consideration of vital questions of policy in the future and will lead, to some degree, to solutions to the problems which we will have to face in the short term and the long term in relation to population policy, immigration and community affairs. 
There are a few matters to which I would like to refer and which in the main are not contained in the Minister's statement. Firstly, I refer to the terminology which is used. I do not subscribe to it personally and I hope that in the future some consideration will be given to it. I suggest that the Minister should be careful about the terminology he uses. To whom do the words 'migrant' and 'ethnic' apply? In the statement the Minister says that 1.5 million persons in this country are migrants. I think it would be correct to say that 20 per cent of our population consists of people drawn from many overseas countries. When they take Australian citizenship they receive all the entitlements of natural born Australians and they should be designated as Australians of European origin, British origin or whatever. I am an Australian with a Welsh and Scottish background. I am very proud of that fact. I am the only Australian born member of my family. I believe that we should be referring to people as Australians. There may be some grins or sniggers from honourable members on the Government side, but this is a very serious matter and I believe it is a divisive matter. 
I think that the Minister's thesis that of the 3 population variables- fertility, mortality and external migration- external migration will continue to be the only major instrument available to government to influence the level and composition of our population is based to a large extent on the conclusions of the Borrie report, which says: 
The likely effects of Government measures to encourage or discourage child-bearing cannot be anticipated until much more is known about the causes of fertility changes. 
Taking the assumptions that can be gleaned from the Borrie report, one can question the effect of fertility decline. The Minister says that, in line with the pattern in most other industrialised, developed countries, for demographic purposes fertility is a measure of the actual numbers of children born, not the ability to bear children. He also says that immigration also has declined dramatically in recent times. As a consequence, the rate of increase in our population has dropped considerably. 
What we must ask is whether the fertility and immigration slow-down is temporary. What are the economic factors which have contributed to the decreasing family size? Why is immigration more limited at the present time than it has been in the past? Although we can easily accept Professor Borrie 's figures in relation to the fertility projections, we need to be very careful in accepting these recommendations as an article of faith, for demographic changes also, as the Minister correctly points out, have enormous economic, social, political and industrial consequences. All tentative planning activities in the welfare field will be affected seriously by any definitive, comprehensive and authoritative statements concerning population projections. It would be absurd, for instance, to continue expanding the primary sector of education, creches and preschool centres, when the demand upon those facilities will vary greatly in the near future as a result of the ageing of the population. 
Look at the relativity of fertility patterns. Firstly many eminent demographers would contend that the population size and the ultimate population size is only going to be of relative consideration- relative to the standards of living we want, relative to productivity, relative to what governments do to ensure the welfare of their citizens and relative to economic strategy in relation to unemployment and inflation. Secondly, the decline in fertility may be just a consequence of women delaying child bearing perhaps because of temporary economic circumstances, such as the difficulties that young couples have now in buying houses, particularly in the major metropolitan areas. 
Thirdly, we need to take into account also in assessing this factor to what extent remarriage within the child bearing age represents child bearing by the people in question. Changes within the economic structure of society, particularly the access of females to higher education and to the job market, has had an impact upon fertility rates also. The cost of earnings foregone should a mother give up her job have concomitantly increased and the role of the career woman as opposed to the housewife has become increasingly attractive to the female section of the population. However, this may be only a temporary abberation in so far as it affects fertility rates. 
If women could be assured of keeping their jobs and of not being relegated, by being married, to staying within the house and if they could be assured of re-entering the workforce once the children were of manageable age, this might affect dramatically attitudes towards procreation. Consequently the factors which determine fertility rates must be approached within the political and economic context in which the advanced industrial societies are operating. We should note that fertility rates and their decline are based to a large extent upon the experience of western society and are not necessarily representative of all industrialised society. This is particularly evident when one considers some of the demographic trends in countries such as the German Democratic Republic which has one of the most heavily industrialised bases in the world. This is because the attitude towards child bearing and reproduction is of such a different order from our own at the present time. The matter is worth at least some investigation and consideration. 
Let us look at immigration. If we did accept the assumption of the Minister- I suggest at this point that the assumption is still very questionable indeed- that fertility rates are declining and will continue inevitably to decline and that the major way in which the Government can affect the composition of Australia's population is through regulating the level and composition of immigration, a whole series of other factors needs to be taken into account. Firstly, the rationale that the Minister presents in terms of immigration is one largely of turning the tap on when we need them and turning the tap off when the economic circumstances do not permit their ready integration into the workforce. Since immigration levels are determined largely by government decision, predictions must be based on political forethought. It has been evident in recent years that economic, social and political conditions in Australia compared with those of the advanced western European countries, such as the Netherlands and West Germany, from which countries few people immigrate to Australia today, have necessitated our altering radically our sources for traditional emigration. 
We should no longer be under the illusion that for Western Europeans- Britons and particularly people from countries such as West Germany and Holland- Australia represents a desirable place in which to live. The whole theme has changed. The association of countries in the European Economic Community is such that technicians and people trained at that level need not travel the long distance to Australia. They have easy access to job availability in the countries in that area. They can take advantage of the guest worker scheme. I do not subscribe to this scheme myself, but it is a fact that people travel within Europe in a whole range of jobs and they are within striking distance of their homelands. 
We must remember that every human being has a sacred and an indissoluble attachment to the land which has given him his infant nurture. They feel, as I believe anyone else would feel, that they would rather work in close proximity of their homeland. If for some temporary period of time a person cannot find work in his own country he will not go the long distance to Australia. The fact of life is that that is correct. I was in Europe within the last 12 months. I made extensive inquiries and found that that is the case. People work near their homelands. The Labor initiatives in the social welfare field at one stage made Australia attractive to immigrants but the Government has now, I believe- I think we can be critical of this-attempted to dismantle the Labor initiatives in that social welfare area. Conditions in the countries which I have mentioned for the most part are better than in ours. That means that payments to people on social welfare in those countries are far in excess of what we can offer. 
Australia's capability of managing various levels of immigration in relation to overall population size to date has largely been determined by political economy factors, particularly the capacity of many industrialists to seek cheaper labour and bigger markets. Indeed, the Minister for Immigration, on page 9 of his statement stated: 
Australia's difficulties in defending itself during war and the need for manpower to encourage and support industrial and economic expansion combined to produce a national consensus that Australia needed a much larger population. 
Yes, it may be true that there was a national consensus in 1945 upon immigration for those purposes. However, it does not necessarily mean that this consensus continues to exist today, nor that the rationale has any contemporary meaning. For instance, one of the major characteristics of Australia in terms of immigration is its highly industrialised nature and the roles that immigrants are expected to play within the work force. 
When traditional British and Western European sources of immigration have declined Australia has had to recruit migrants from countries or areas within countries- for example, rural Greece and Yugoslavia- without the background, education and industrialisation necessary to produce well-trained manpower. This has gone on for some considerable time. I am not denying for one moment that there was little difference between a Labor government in the past and the present Government or little difference perhaps in the debate that ensued over the years over the source countries of our immigrants. But I pose the suggestion that in the contemporary sense that is not the case today. I think that the issues and the questions are quite different and I am sure that at this point the debate would be quite different. 
The result of this immigration policy, sustained and continued by the Liberal and National Country Parties for something like 20 years, of the distribution of ethnic groups is very much now mirrored in terms of their distribution within occupations and the class nature of Australia. Since the 1950s and the beginning of the wave of southern European immigrationfirst it was the Italians and then later the Greeks- migrants have disproportionately entered the unskilled and semi-skilled manufacturing and construction jobs. Indeed, one might say that they have been allocated to the work that Australians find too unpleasant to do. In this regard I refer to a study made by  Mr Steven 
Staats, former consultant to the Social Welfare Commission, of the changing composition of the Australian workforce. In a paper delivered to the University of Toronto's Political Economic Conference on 2 August 1974 he stated: 
Immigration labour has provided a significant and growing proportion of the workforce and almost all Australian industries. It is particularly important for the manufacturing industries generally accounting for more than 30 per cent of the workforce in these industries while at much less significance are the primary industries. They provide at least a quarter of the workforce for the mining industry. Within manufacturing migrant labour has been crucial. It provided 49.48 per cent of the workforce for the clothing industries, 44.7 per cent for the textile industries, 40.6 per cent for the petroleum products industries, 40.3 per cent in other manufacturing industries. 
These figures are derived from the Australian Bureau of Census reports 1944-1961 and 1966.  Sir Neville  Norman in a paper headed 'Manufacturing Industry in Australia, Australian Industries Development Association, Sydney, 1971' wrote: 
There would have been a decline in numbers working in manufacturing by some 20 per cent in the absence of immigration. The vital contribution of migrant labour can be seen more clearly after considering the socio-economic distribution. 
I again quote from what  Mr Staats  said: 
From 1947-34 80 per cent of the increase in the male workforce and 60 per cent to 70 per cent of the female workforce consisted of migrants. Not only have migrants accounted for the entire increase of members of the workforce from 10 to 29 years of age in the period from 1947-1961 but they have also to a considerable extent replaced Australian-born workers of these ages. 
Thus migrants rather than school leavers to date have been the main source for replenishment of young workers. This is particularly so in manual occupations, a growing proportion of which are held by migrant workers and a lessening proportion of which are held by Australian born workers. In 1961, 55.4 per cent of the migrant workforce was in manual occupations compared with only 40.5 per cent of the Australian bom workforce. That development has helped to exaggerate the illusion in the minds of younger Australian born workers that manual occupations are fading out, and clerical and professional jobs are swamping the workforce. According to a study undertaken in September 1 975 by what was then called the Department of Labor and Immigration entitled 'Migrants in the Work Force', the major occupation group in which migrants are employed is the broad and statistically unsatisfactory group of 'tradesman, production process workers, labourers, etc' which together contain 45 per cent of migrant workers compared with 29 per cent of Australian born workers. 
The figures for married migrant women are particularly striking: 56 per cent of women born in Greece, 54 per cent born in Yugoslavia, and 45 per cent of those born in Italy who are in the workforce work as production or process workers. That compares with only 9 per cent of Australian born workers, 14 per cent of women born in the United Kingdom and Eire and 20 per cent of women born in the Netherlands or Germany. Professor Henderson has stated that in a random survey of 5824 income units 7.7 per cent of the total population was below the poverty line. It seems to me that the people who have come to this country as migrants have settled in an area of work in which, unless we do something about lifting their potential in the workforce, they are destined to remain, like a lot of the children who come from Greek families in my own electorate. The Minister might smile, but it is true. Because of the disadvantage they suffer they are destined to be on the end of a pick for the rest of their lives. They experienced difficulty in extracting themselves from the socioeconomic circumstances that prevail. 
In so far as community tensions are concerned, the Minister contends that it is universally agreed that the immigration program has been of enormous benefit to Australia. He said that this is a tribute to our massive development potential and the good sense of Australian-born people and migrants in avoiding community tensions. Time is slipping away from me, but I think I should say that it seems to me that at this point in time community tensions are emerging. I think that this is something else to which we have to pay a lot of attention in the future. There are all sorts of reasons for it. For example, there are difficulties at the education level. There are insufficient people teaching the English language to migrants. The industrial dispute that evolved at the Ford Motor Company is an example of these tensions. In that dispute migrants were depicted as individuals who were taking action that was quite foreign to the Australian workforce. But all they were doing was fighting for better wages and conditions and showing their feelings about the way in which they had been discriminated against. 
I turn now to the rationale for immigration. In his ministerial statement the Minister suggested that the Government should maintain its position as stated in a policy statement on immigration and ethnic affairs. He talked about immigration being an instrument of Australia's population policies and of the broader national strategies and objectives to which those national policies are directed. I believe that this is a commitment to population growth with immigration as a prime factor in that growth. If we are going to do that surely there are bases and criteria that we ought to be looking at before we really decide on what we have to do. I shall mention just a few in the time that I have available to me. 
I believe that need should be one of the most important factors when embarking upon any further immigration programs. Need should not be defined purely in terms of the economic needs of the imperatives of industry. It should be very much related also to the factors that govern the situation of people, of future Australians, who are already here. Family unity, growth centres, welfare and other requirements, representations on bodies that affect the welfare of their own future and representations throughout the occupational structures that give a voice to the individuals are some of the matters to which I make reference. 
I would also like to make some comments very shortly about the structure of the Australian Population and Immigration Council which has been restructured in the terms outlined by the Minister in his statement. But before doing so I think I should mention one other aspect, that is, respect for the individual. If we are to have immigration programs we should have immigration programs that strive for respect, equity and fairness for the individual and that reflect as far as possible respect for and the diversity of values and life styles. This means that we do not wish to have migrants of any one national origin doing the most menial tasks that society has to offer. Respect and equity go to the point of having equal job opportunities. That can be realised only if there are equal opportunities in education. I would readily confess that what the Labor Government indulged in and failed to carry out was a restructuring or retraining of the work force in a real sense. More people generallymales and females- could have been trained or retrained to fit into technical occupations in the work force. If that policy had been carried out a decade or so ago the people who are now perforating menial tasks in the work force- in particular those in the migrant areas who are doing so because of the communications problemwould have had far more opportunities and there would not be the dirth of technical people in the work force that there is at the present moment. 
Let me pay a little attention to the structure of the newly formed Australian Population and Immigration Council, to which I have made reference. I believe that it has been structured in such a way as to neglect to include people who ought to be consulted or who ought to be members of that Council so that it may work effectively. The Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs suggests that it is to be bipartisan. I can only agree with that objective. But how can it be bipartisan with the Minister acting as Chairman? The honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Macphee)  and  Senator Button  were members of the previous Council. They are 2 individuals who have had vast experience in this field. It is an insult to the honourable member for Balaclava and  Senator Button  that they have been taken off that Council. That action does nothing for the Council itself. 
If what the Minister seeks to achieve is an upper middle class Council, that is what he has done. The members of the new Council are not representative of those individuals who ought to be represented. I submit to the Minister that any realistically based assessment would require the type of review that was carried out in Canada. I acknowledge that the Minister talks about a Green Paper. As I understand it, for 12 months in his Department officers have been working on an inquiry of that type. They are carrying out that sort of operation. The Minister knows that there is experience in this area. I think we should take note of and be guided to some extent at least by the fact that a Green Paper was prepared in Canada. A Canadian migration population study led to the publication in 1975 of a Green Paper in that country on migration. 
The Minister has compared the Canadian experience with ours. I agree that to some extent it is debatable whether we can reach the conclusions which are reached in the statement. I would submit once again that if the Minister is to endeavour to reach a realistically based Australian assessment of this whole subject a review would be required of all aspects of population policy. Final decisions on the matter ought to be based on individual briefs submitted to the Government and to the Council by the many individuals and organisations involved in this field. Perhaps the people who could comment most pertinently on this subject should participate in the development of such policies. Those who have undergone the experience should have that experience recognised by their inclusion on that advisory Council. 
To set it up as the Minister has proposed is a retrograde step. If it is to be bipartisan, we need to have representation from the Opposition, as it was represented in the past. We should have people on it who have had experience and, more particularly, include people from the working class migrant area who have undergone the experiences to which I have made reference. I conclude by saying that I commend those propositions to the Minister who will have the cooperation of the Opposition in any work that is done. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: (This question was asked by  Mr Innes  of the Attorney-General but it has been transferred to the Minister for Administrative Services). 
1) What was the cost to the Commonwealth Police Force to guard the Governor-General at the (a) Australian National University on 26 March 1976 and (b) Royal Canberra Golf Club on 27 March 1976. 
How many police were involved on each occasion. 
Is the budget of the Attorney-General's Department to be adjusted upwards to take account of the costs of guarding the Governor-General; if so, by how much. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the cost to the A.C.T. Police Force to guard the Governor-General at the (a) Australian National University on 26 March 1976 and (b) Royal Canberra Golf Club on 27 March 1976. 
How many police were involved on each occasion. 
Is the budget of the Department of the Capital Territory to be adjusted upwards to take account of the costs of guarding the Governor-General; if so, by how much. 
I support the motion of dissent. I point out the ambit in which standing order 82 can be applied.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  no doubt it is at your discretion whether a contribution by an honourable member refers specifically to the subject matter of an item on the notice paper, but the real issue is when you anticipate what is a reasonable time for that matter to come before the House. I refer you to some of the history of notices of this nature. Could you advise us how many times matters on the notice paper ever see the light of day? It seems to me that you acted upon an assumption that this matter would be brought on within a reasonable time. That is the crux of standing order 82. The discretion lies with you. I think the responsibility ought to weigh very heavily. I wonder whether you could accurately assess when this matter may come before the House. It could go on for some considerable time. 
Do I have to listen to these yahoos from the other side of the chamber? 
-One could dissent from that ruling as well. The question is whether you are reasonably applying standing order 82. 1 do not believe you are. What could happen is that you could take a matter off the notice paper if you wanted to frustrate debate in this House. You could take it off today and put it back on tomorrow. 
Of course you cannot. You are assuming what might happen in respect of an item on the notice paper. I think the last thing you ought to consider is frustrating an individual who raises an issue of major public importance, and frustrate him by applying standing order 82 in the narrow sense that you have. 
Question put: 
That the Deputy Speaker's ruling be dissented from. 
-In this debate I should like to deal with some of the broader issues of tariffs. For that purpose I propose to illustrate my remarks by referring to the electrical and electronics industry, an industry about which I at least know a little, having spent some considerable time in it. The industry is affected by the fourth, fifth, seventeenth and thirty-first schedules of the Bill. All of these schedules arise out of reports of the Industries Assistance Commission. The treatment of the industry, as shown in the BUI, is a perfect example of what is wrong with the present system and why the present tariff procedures have led us to the loss of technology and its associated skills and contributed to the present unemployment position. When I say that the procedures are at fault I do not wish to suggest that the people in the system are not doing their job as it is presently designed, but rather that the system itself requires some radical change. It creates uncertainty, discourages investment, prevents the training in skills and causes unemployment without the opening up of corresponding employment opportunities in other areas. 
Let me take an example from what is known as the white goods industry which comprises refrigerators, washing machines and so on. The inquiry into the electrical industry was initiated in 1971 by the previous Liberal-Country Party Government. It dragged on for years. In late 1974 the Temporary Assistance Authority held an inquiry and recommended quotas. This was followed by an IAC interim report which was tabled and put into effect by the present Government. Before the final report of the IAC had been received, in fact even before the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  tabled the interim report- incidentally I think the Minister tried to slip the proposal which is now schedule 3 1 through the Parliament by suggesting it was nothing new; however that did not go unnoticed- the Department of Industry and Commerce was circulating industry on the holding of a new inquiry by the Temporary Assistance Authority. Whatever the reason, whatever the fault, there is no way that the industry can plan and progress under this type of inquiry system. 
Let me turn to the electronics industry at large. In the broad review of industry to which the IAC is dedicated, the electrical and electronic industry is one group. For reasons which baffle me the IAC inquiries are never related to an industry as a whole or to the way in which a factory operates, but are divided by the reference to the artificial distinctions imposed by the sub-items of the tariff. No industry works in those divisions of the tariff. No inquiry matches the real facts of industrial life. Be that as it may, the Tariff Board report was issued on 27 September 1 973 dealing with consumer electronics and the then Whitlam Government was pledged to find the right balance between ensuring that the consumer obtained the best and cheapest goods available and the need to preserve our technological base and employment. 
The report set out what could be done. It was wrong on 5 fundamental points. These 5 fundamental points were disastrous as far as that industry was concerned. The predictions were, first, that 4500 employees would be affected, but that unemployment would be minimal as their services would be used by other parts of the industry; secondly, that while black and white television would decline, the Australian industry would continue to hold and service the market; thirdly, that in the field of audio equipment, the Australian industry would continue to hold the top end of the market; fourthly, that in the field of colour television, Australian industry would increase, and would be able to compete against imports, especially of large sets, because of licensing agreements which would prevent 
Japanese importations for 2 years, and thereafter, Japanese importations only of smaller sized sets; and fifthly, that the manufacture of certain components would cease, but that manufacture of others would be maintained by demands from the professional and industrial sections of the industry. Those 5 predictions were totally wrong. Those are the propositions on which the Whitlam Government decided to act on the report. These are the cause of the problems of this industry today. 
It was not long after that report was adopted that we became aware of the concern within the industry, not the least from the trade unions which were being vitally affected by the decisions. Caucus sub-committees heard from representatives of industry and unions, Ministers received delegations and officials were pressed to take action. In the upshot a reference was made to the Temporary Assistance Authority. But it was a false start. The reference related only to colour television sets when the real concern was with the manufacture of components and their incorporation into finished goods. When the reference was finally changed to incorporate some components, each one grudgingly added to the list, we were faced with the provisions of the Industries Assistance Commission Act. By that Act the Temporary Assistance Authority is bound to take notice of whether an industry has been damaged by imports, not whether it is about to be damaged by imports. At that time imports were just beginning. The flow was a trickle. It is now a flood. But the Temporary Assistance Authority could not consider the future, only the past and the present. 
Even worse was to follow. When the TAA reported, as it was bound to do by the Act, that imports had not occurred but sounded a warning note that that situation should be kept under review, we found the next hurdle. When the Industries Assistance Commission Bill was before the Senate,  Senator Cotton  successfully moved an amendment which made it mandatory for the Government to accept and implement reports of the TAA whatever its views on the reports might be. Thus the amendment moved by the hostile Senate effectively removed from the Government the right to determine the protective levels of industry. It removed from this House a duty imposed upon it by section 53 of the Constitution. A government was forced to accept the recommendations of the TAA for no action on major issues because of its limited scope of inquiry. 
What is the position today? Employment which would be virtually unaffected according to the report has fallen drastically. Not the least of the problems is that the unemployment has fallen most heavily on the skilled work force. It has dried up the flow of apprentices. I take the example of Philips, a large company which can effectively relocate its staff. Perhaps to its credit it attempts to do so. At its peak it employed about 1 1 000 workers. Today it employs 8 000. In the very near future the employment at Hendon will drop below 1000 for the first time in 20 years. Plessy, the components manufacturer, is reduced to a mere shadow, and so it goes on. 
In return we have had a few companies which have sprung up to assemble colour television sets. But that is a screwdriver industry, merely assembling components imported from overseasa far cry from the high technological skills which the work force once had. Black and white television manufacture has all but ceased. Service and parts are difficult to obtain. The sets which are sold are all imported. No radios are manufactured in Australia except for a few car radios which are assembled. The warehouses of Australia are crammed with imported colour television sets, with many more on order, not only from Japan but also from European sources. Australian industry is in dire straits. The local manufacturers are inevitably turning to importing sets themselves rather than manufacturing locally. The critical components which were identified by consultants which the Government had to bring in after the Commission 's report are being somewhat shakily maintained by means of a subsidy which is destined to be terminated as soon as the LAC reports upon another sector of the industry, a report which was in draft stage last October, but which has yet to see the light of day in its final form. 
The previous Government attempted to take reasonable steps to see what was to be done with the B and D sections of the industry. But what will be the end result of that if we continue in the way that we have proceeded? My  guess  is that it is likely in the future that once again the matter of colour television sets will be referred to the Temporary Assistance Authority. That body will find that imports have damaged Australian industry and some temporary duties or even some quotas will be imposed. They will be far too late. This will enable the officials of the Department of Industry and Commerce, who bear a large portion of the blame, to shrug their shoulders and to say that the matter is being investigated. It would take the pressure off  Senator Cotton,  a Minister who when questioned about the imminent shut-down of the ferrite works at Hendon in South Australia, could blithely say that he was aware of it. If honourable members opposite want to see the concern he exhibits let them look at Senate  Hansard  of 30 March page 834. They might then be convinced about the attitude that was taken. 
The last conference on this matter which I attended was chaired by  Senator James  McClelland, then the Minister for Secondary Industry. It was attended by representatives of the Australian Council of Trade Unions and of the industry. It was then the policy of the Whitlam Government that large colour television sets should continue to be manufactured in Australia, that sets in Australia should be assembled from the bare printed circuit boards upwards rather than merely by the screwdriver assembly of imported sub-assemblies and modules, and that selected components designated by consultants as of high technological importance to Australia should continue to be manufactured in Australia. 
It is one thing to resolve to manufacture components but it is quite a different issue to find suitable markets for them. It is pointless to manufacture cigarettes if nobody smokes. It is pointless to manufacture components if there is no end use for them. In my view, the system of decisions on what industries should be protected and what level of protection they receive needs drastic changes in 4 areas. The first of these is the Government itself. As my colleague the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  has pointed out, we need a key industry strategy. It is not for governments to shelter behind the LAC; they must bite the bullet. If they decide that an industry is required in Australia they must be prepared to pay the price. I do not suggest that they tell the IAC what to report, but there must be some guide as to whether a particular industry is required. So it is with shipbuilding, with the aerospace industry, with the car industry and it must be so with the electronics industry. The Government should hearken to a note of warning about the light manufacturing industry. I raised this matter with the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, before I rose. 
The engineering industry. If we are not very cautious the end result, should we continue along the present lines, will be catastrophic. The industry ought to be looked at before it reaches that stage. The second area of reform is the IAC itself. It can and does act impartially. It is capable of producing impartial reports given that it knows whether an industry is required or not. But it must not be left to make that decision itself, as it purports to do now in its annual report, claiming that its decisions are for the good of the community as a whole. Governments make that decision, not the IAC. The IAC at present operates in a planning vacuum, and it takes a negative attitude. It is cutting down the tall poppies and not encouraging the short ones. It does nothing to open up new employment opportunities. It only cuts them down. It must reform its inquiry system so that in some way it is related to the real facts of industrial life and not to the divisions of the Brussels tariff. It must cease washing its hands by saying that natural wastage will avoid retrenchments and, therefore, unemployment. We heard reference by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  today to employment in the Public Service. The same sort of philosophy is inherent in that concept. 
Thirdly, there is the Temporary Assistance Authority. If its hands are tied it cannot consider the future- the future where industry and employment plans are made. If the Government is bound to accept its reports, regardless of what it thinks, the legislation must be changed. Finally, there must be some drastic changes in the attitude of officials. When Labor came to power they explained away their past protection at any cost attitude by blaming it on Ministers. I am sure they are now telling their new masters that what they did under the Labor Government was under direction and against their wishes. But what did happen? They prevented the IAC from inquiring- not deciding, but merely inquiringas to whether colour television tubes should be manufactured in Australia. They said the industry did not desire to do this, and ever since the industry has consistently denied it. They have assisted in drafting the terms of reference to the IAC, a method which, as I have said repeatedly, causes inquiries to be unrelated to industry, leaving, in the electronics field ten or twelve different inquiries proceeding at different times, all dealing with the product of one factory- a factory finely tuned to make maximum use of its resources. They conduct star chamber inquiries as to whether a reference will be made to the IAC. Indeed the case that must be argued to the department to get a reference is sometimes even greater than the case which must be made to the IAC, but here there is no open hearing. 
They look upon conferences with unions and industry as merely a means of informing themselves of what goes on, so that they make decisions, rather than a forum where views put forward should be respected and acted upon. I ask honourable members to look at the by-law system. I pose the question: What is happening about by-laws for the electronics industry? Do those officials know what the LAC might report upon in the future, or are they merely making decisions from day to day? Where is the open statement of the future? At least in the car industry, with its local content plan, we know something about what will be under by-law. Perhaps the officials are working to something like a local content plan for the electronics industry, but we have yet to hear about it, and so far as I can gather, the industry itself has yet to hear about it. 
I am talking about the system. It is the same system as the one which Labor inherited and which unfortunately, in my view, it failed to change. We must therefore take some of the blame in respect of the matter. But today we must look at it again. I am looking to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs to tell us just what it is that he proposes to do about this industry and other industries that are going to find themselves in a similar situation. There must be a balance between the rights of the consumer to obtain the best and cheapest goods and the maintenance of the technological base in Australia and the employment of Australians. The problem might be solved by the taking of a firm decision that we will not have an electronics industry- a decision which would put this nation back among the underdeveloped nations of the world in terms of the scope of the work force. It would be better solved by the taking of a firm decision that we should have an electronics industry with all that that means for the future. 
I am not talking about empty platitudes, nor am I suggesting that it is enough for the Minister to say: 'Of course we want an electronics industry, but . . .'.I am talking about a firm government commitment to have an electronics industry, to preserve our technological base, to preserve the skilled workers in employment in this country and to open again the opportunities for apprenticeship in the electronics field. I am talking about a firm government statement that we will have the industry whatever the cost and about the giving of an indication to the LAC that the industry is vital to the nation, which at least might have some bearing on the content of reports that are yet to come. 
It is not enough to refer the question of coloured television sets to the Temporary Assistance Authority once again. It is not enough to continue to hope that one day the saga of the white goods report will come to an end. It has gone on, like  Blue Hills,  since 1971. What we need is the immediate calling together of all the affected parties- the unions and employers alike- and the holding of a calm and rational discussion that results in the reaching of a firm decision on where the industry is going. I lay that down as what ought to be done or what ought to be taken as being the fundamental blueprint of our responsibilities generally for the future. I am sure that the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  will tell me that the industry does not want the Government always telling it what to do. I suggest to him that the industry needs to know what the Government intends to do. It can then take its own steps in whatever direction it is going to be headed. Until that happens, there can be no confidence in the industry, there can be no advance in the employment opportunities and there can be no reversal of the present trend towards the dismantling of one of the industries which is basic to the welfare of this country. 
Sitting suspended from 5.58 to 8 p.m. 

 -Mr Speaker, I have made the point before that this Government in making its cuts in expenditure and savings is bent on attacking those in our society least able to protect themselves- the poor, the sick, the pre-school children and those dependent on social security benefits. The cats have also attacked the newcomers to our country- our ethnic communities. My assertions have been ridiculed by members of the Government but no longer will they do that for they are condemned by their own hand. The Treasury information paper dated 28 April 1976 sets out clearly and unequivocally the savings expected in the 2 Appropriation Bills being discussed. 
I hope that that does not rob me of time either,  Mr Speaker.  The document proves conclusively that this Government has actively discriminated against ethnic communities. Indeed, two of the cuts cast serious doubts on Australia's status as a signatory to the United Nations International Convention on the Elimination of all Forms of Racial Discrimination. 
Before I discuss these cuts in detail let us examine what they are. The cuts are simply a cosmetic exercise. In no sense do they form part of a coherent economic strategy. They simply relate to the image of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  as the strong man, the stern leader introducing belt-tightening measures. On the Government's own admission the cuts total a mere $478.2m out of a total expenditure of something like $20,000m- a mere 2 per cent of total spending. They are not a sincere expression of economic policy; they are an exercise in hypocrisy. 
It is revealing to see who this Government is prepared to sacrifice first in this image-making exercise. Who are they? During the election campaign we heard all sorts of promises from the Liberal Party and National Country Party coalition about a new deal for ethnic groups. It is now clear exactly what this new deal comprisesone of image-making, cosmetic exercises and a new name for the relevant Department. It is now the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. It has exactly the same staffing; exactly the same structures. The only change made has been to the letterhead of the Department. What has been the new deal? It is a series of vicious cuts that have affected nearly every single area of ethnic group concern. Our ethnic communities have been the first target of the new Government. 
Let us look at the figures supplied in the Treasury information paper. Let us start right at the beginning of this infamous document and look at the cuts made in the Department of Administrative Services. Division 414 of the estimates for that Department relate to the Aus.tralian Office of Information. The cuts in the area of administrative services total $590,000. Of this money saved, $400,000 was earmarked for migrant publicity. The cuts in that area are a fine indication of the Government's concern for ethnic groups. Out of the $590,000 cut from the estimates, $400,000- honourable members should keep that in mind- directly affects our ethnic communities. Let us look at what the money was for. 
I venture to say that of all the Labor Government 's initiatives in the field of ethnic affairs one of the most enthusiastically welcomed initiatives was the introduction of access and ethnic radio because for the first time our ethnic groups had the opportunity to enjoy their own cultures on our air waves. It was a long overdue reform. After all, members of our ethnic groups make up approximately 25 per cent of our population. They pay their share of taxes and have a right to expect that at least part of the public broadcasting expenditure will be tailored to their needs. What was the new Government's response? Out of the $400,000 earmarked for migrant publicity through the Australian Information Office $150,000 was to be spent on aspects of ethnic broadcasting. That has gone, every cent of it, and with it I fear has gone the future of ethnic broadcasting in this country. 
What of the other cuts? They relate to publications in major languages, publications explaining the complexities of our hire purchase and credit finance procedures, publications warning of the dangers of swimming on our beaches. I am sure that I do not have to remind honourable members of this House of the number of tragic drownings of the children of migrant parents who are not acquainted with the basic safety precautions that are second nature to most Australian-born Australians. The other area affected by the cutback was literature for prospective migrants. 
Let me continue through the document. I come to the cuts in the Attorney-General's Department and deal with division 175- the Australian Legal Aid Office. Amongst the groups for whom the Australian Legal Aid Office assumed special responsibility migrants figured prominently. Included in the charter of the Legal Aid offices was a special responsibility to protect migrants who are in many cases unfamiliar with our complex legal system. The cut in the legal aid area is $2,496,400. This cut will seriously affect the capacity of the legal aid offices to protect members of our ethnic communities from exploitation and injustice. Indeed, it has been suggested by lawyers involved in the service that the Government is deliberately starving the legal aid offices out of existence. Once again our ethnic groups will be amongst the first to suffer. 
I move on to the cuts in the Department of Education. We find once again that ethnic groups are the first victims of the cuts. The largest single cut in the education budget- let me emphasise that point; the largest single cut- is in the area of the child migrant program, a cut of $983,400. It is easy to see where this Government's priorities lie. Almost $lm has been trimmed off the child migrant education program. This cut is closely followed by that to the adult migrant education program in Australia, including part-time instruction. There the amount is $419,000. It was the Labor Government that recognised that members of our ethnic communities were more than just factory fodder. It is the new Liberal-National Country Party Government that is bent on discriminating against migrant children and adult migrant workers seeking to improve their standard of education. 
Another important cutback is in the grants to the Schools Commission. In the area of special investigations, an area vital for the development of multi-lingual and multi-cultural education programs, the cut has been equally vicious. Out of a total budget of $404,000 the amount of $167,000 has been removed. This cut will seriously jeopardise research aimed at meeting the needs of ethnic groups in education. In the area of technical education the cutback for research and investigations has been equally vicious. Almost a quarter of the total budget, $50,000 out of $219,000, has been cut. In another area, assistance for post-graduate studies in social work- this is an area that directly affects children in disadvantaged schools, and that in large part means migrant childrenthis Government has cut $58,000 off a total allocation of $2 19,000. Pre-school teacher education allowances, another vital area of ethnic group concern, has suffered a cutback of $363,000. In the area of pre-embarkation and shipboard instruction for migrants coming to this country a further cut of $30,000 occurs. It is easy to see where this Government's priorities lie. It is not hard to gauge the real level of concern for our ethnic communities. 
Let me take as another example the budget of the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations. The cut in the appropriation for 'Committees on Discrimination in Employment' is almost half of the total-$24,000 out of $50,000. 1 turn to the national employment and retraining scheme which was specifically designed to meet the retraining needs of members of our whole community in general, and in particular our ethnic communities. The cut in that area is $5,100,000. The reduction is made in the allowances payable. That reduction has made the scheme an unworkable farce. I turn next to the cut with respect to Commonwealth Hostels Ltd. It is a total of $43,000 out of an allocation of $195,000 for migrant temporary accommodation assistance. 
I instance next the cuts in the budget of the Children's Commission. This is one area that probably affects our ethnic communities more than any other. Indeed, some ethnic communities have been sending their children to their home countries for want of adequate child care services in this country. What is the cut? It is the entire allocation. The appropriation is $6,47 1 ,000 and the cut is exactly that amount. 
I turn to the cuts in the budget of Department of Social Security. The allocation for the telephone interpreter service has been cut by $46,000. This is a cut that has meant that at the time when the translating service is most needed it is just not available. More than a quarter of the money allocated for the Migrant Social Welfare Advisory Council-$4,000 out of $14,000-has been cut. Grants to organisations for welfare rights services have been cut by one-fifth. The list goes on. A cut of $127,000 is to be made in the allocation of $437,000 for research on special projects for the Social Welfare Commission. For the first time, through this body, ethnic groups were being investigated and plans were being drawn up for the purpose of protecting migrants as such. 
I have already drawn attention to the plight of ethnic radio. The allocation to the AttorneyGeneral's Department of $58,400 for ethnic broadcasting equipment is to be cut by $24,000- nearly half the total allocated. How long can ethnic broadcasting continue if the Government deliberately starves it of funds? Under consumer protection, another area that vitally concerns ethnic communities, we find another cut- of $840,000 out of a total of $1,120,000. So it goes on. Proceeding through the document we find a further cut in the budget for the Children's Commission. The allocation was $57,537,000 and the cut is just that-$57,537,000. I have already stressed the importance of child care in our community and I do not need to do so again. 
I referred earlier to the fact that the cuts cast serious doubts on whether we have fulfilled our obligations under the United Nations International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination. We became party to this Convention with the passing of the Racial Discrimination Act of 1975. Amongst the provisions of the Act was the establishment of a Community Relations Council. So important was the Council considered that it was afforded a separate section- Part V- in the Act. The appropriation for the Council was $ 14,000. The cut made by the Government was precisely that. In other words, the new Government has effectively prevented the full expression of the Racial Discrimination Act and has rendered impossible one of the key provisions of the Act. If this Government is not prepared to allow the Council to be established, I ask the Minister whether he will give effect to article 14 ( 1 ) of the Schedule of the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination. That article provides that a State Party may at any time declare that it recognises the competence of the United Nations Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination to receive and consider communications from individuals or groups of individuals within its jurisdiction claiming to be victims of a violation by that State Party of any of the rights set forth in the Convention. 
I believe that the refusal to finance the establishment of a community relations council to advise both the Attorney-General and the Commissioner for Community Relations concerning the observance and implementation of the Convention constitutes a violation. If this Government is not prepared to fund a council made up of representatives of our ethnic communities, to allow their views to be heard, will the Government allow their voice to be heard before the United Nations Committee? That is the question that ought to be answered by the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Ellicott)  or the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar).  But in an even more fundamental way the present Government has breached the Convention, and that is in respect to article 7 of the Convention's Schedule. This article clearly states: 
States Parties undertake to adopt immediate and effective measures particularly in the fields of teaching, education, culture and information with a view to combating prejudices which lead to racial discrimination and to promoting understanding, tolerance and friendship among nations and racial or ethnical groups, as well as to propagating the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the United Nations 
Declaration on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination, and this Convention. 
What the Government has done in its Budget cutbacks is to make it quite impossible for the office of the Commissioner for Community Relations to carry out this vital education role. But before I outline the ways in which the cuts have had this effect, it is worth noting the views of the present Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs when the Racial Discrimination Act was debated on 8 April 1975 and he was speaking for the then Opposition. He talked on 2 distinct types of discrimination. The Minister referred to deliberate and inadvertent discrimination. He had this to say: 
Whilst the effect on the victim is manifestly the same, that discrimination which comes about by inadvertence implies no underlying hostility on the part of the discriminator. This is important because if discrimination comes about through inadvertence there are no underlying community attitudes which have to be changed. We find that once this kind of action is publicly identified, public opinion will tend to support the development of public awareness against such discriminatory attitudes. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
-The Minister, as I pointed out, was careful to stress that the educational and punitive balance of the Act should be carefully observed and protected. I agree with that as a proposition. But what has been the actual record of this new Government in office, as distinct from the fine words spoken on the road to office? Actions speak louder than words and in this case the action was quite clear. There was an allocation of $184,000 for the office of the Commissioner for Community Relations. An amount of $59,000 has been cut from that allocation. This cut has totally negated the educational component of the Racial Discrimination Act. The office of the Commissioner for Community Relations is able to process only those very postevent cases that the present Minister, while in Opposition, correctly identified as playing a very small part in implementing the overall ideals of the Act. 
In my opinion, this cut casts serious doubt upon whether we can be described as carrying out Article 7 of the United Nations Convention. Far from carefully observing and protecting the educational and punitive balance, this Government has totally removed the education role of the office. This Government is in clear breach of its duties under the United Nations Convention. In summing up, let me make one thing quite clear: The allocations originally provided for in these 2 Appropriation Bills were far from extravagant. The previous Treasurer, the present honourable member for Oxley,  Mr Hayden,  was a stern task master. The allocations for each government department were pared to an irreducible minimum. It was an extremely tough Budget at that time, one that did not leave any room for further economies. What was provided for was the bare minimum necessary to carry out the program ahead. 
This is the key point: What this Government has done has not been to economise in any real sense of the word. What it has done has been to destroy. The cuts have dealt a crippling blow to all the programs I have outlined, a blow from which they are unlikely to recover. Certainly, given this Government's record so far, it would be hopelessly naive to believe that any of these programs will fare any better in the Budget to be presented in August this year. These cuts have only opened the way for the total destruction of all these programs before the end of this year. The individual who is responsible for this the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)-  has just entered the House. There is one thing that this Government has demonstrated in these cuts, namely, its utter contempt for the needs, aspirations and rights of our ethnic communities. Under the Australian Labor Party Government for the first time ethnic groups were given a fair go- 
We were still a long way short of completing our program. There are a few Turks in Riverina who will deal with the honourable member. He will meet with the fate that his mates have met with in the New South Wales Parliament. We were still a long way short of completing our program when we were removed from office. But the program which encompassed every area of ethnic group participation in a proper and adequate sense in the Australian community has been disastrously cut by this Government. That program will be placed in a situation from which it will never recover. Yet we heard all this hot air from the Prime Minister about what his Government would do for ethnic groups. The Government has led them up the garden path. At least a start had been made by the Labor Government. Under this new Government we have seen a very sudden return to the policy of indifference and neglect that marked the 23 years of the LiberalNational Country Party misrule. This Government stands condemned for its breach of the United Nations Convention, not only before the people of this country, but before the people of the world. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Graham)  adjourned. 
-Is the Minister for Post and Telecommunications aware that residents of the inner city areas of both Melbourne and Sydney experience television reception that can be described only as a disgrace? Is the Minister aware that this substandard reception is due to inadequate installation precautions by the builders- both private and State- of high rise developments in these areas? Is the Minister aware that the technical expertise to remedy the situation is already available? Will the Minister assure the House that he will arrange an immediate conference of representatives of the local councils and other interested consumer bodies involved and the technical staff concerned from the Australian Broadcasting Control Board and the Minister's department with a view to implementing a plan to eradicate the problem? Will the Minister take whatever steps are available to him to initiate machinery similar to the uniform building code in order to establish a code to secure the protection of the consumer in the area of television reception by ensuring that the work on electrical installations and television aerial structures is carried out in a manner that will provide maximum efficiency in television reception? 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
1 ) On what day in 1975 and at what time of the day did the Supreme Court of New South Wales grant a divorce to a New South Wales District court judge and his wife. 
Was notice of the case given in the Supreme Court's published lists for that day; if not, why not. 
) What period of time elapsed between the filing of the petition and the granting of the  decree nisi. 
Was the time for making the decree absolute shortened if so, to what period and on what grounds. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
On what occasions and in what capacities has he visited Manila since his election to the Australian Parliament. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) On what dates has he visited Singapore as a Minister. 
On which of these dates have appointments been made for him to meet the Prime Minister of Singapore. 
Is the Prime Minister aware of the acute unemployment problems facing the motor components industry due to the abolition of the no reversion rule? How many applications for reversion to overseas suppliers have been received even though the rule is not to be abolished until 3 1 December next? Are any decisions being taken on these applications? If any of them are refused will the potential importers be advised that this is a policy for the future or will this merely be a short-term device to use up existing stocks? Will he take steps to defer the reversion proposals at least until there is a market recovery or large scale purchasing in Australia is commenced by the Japanese entrants into the motor plan? 
I want to draw the attention of the House to a situation which is arising in the motor industry- a situation in which unemployment is looming at a time when the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  should be taking active steps and while his colleague in another place is dithering, as usual. When the Whitlam Government was in power we brought into operation a plan for the motor industry. Like all the plans which preceded it- plans which go back to 1963 and which failed to prevent the severe reconstruction of the Leyland Motor Corporation and the Volkswagen motor company, with all the unemployment that those collapses involved- the Whitlam Government's plan certainly had some defects. The plan provided for two areas. It provided for an area which was called complementation. Time does not permit me to deal with the details of that. I would prefer to deal with the other aspect of the scheme, which was referred to as the no reversion rule. 
In relation to Japanese participation in the motor industry the theory is that while the Japanese are phasing in their activities in this country work will be available for employees in that industry. In the time available to me I would just like to say that the abolition of the no reversion rule is putting the component manufacturers of Australia in a vice. It is destroying thousands of jobs. When the independent component industry goes, as it surely will, 7500 skilled workers in that industry will be lost in the field of the repetition engineers and the small jobbing shops. There are involved another 5000 to 6000 workers, usually in the ratio of one toolmaker to 10 others, and half of their work is for the motor industry. There will be other results affecting the suppliers of raw materials. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said in relation to this matter that when the Japanese builders come into the scheme employment will improve. It may be that in the long run there will be demands for Australian components, but if the Japanese car makers could stand offshore in 1973 and import their complete cars at a barrier of 45 per cent customs duty, there is little likelihood of their sourcing components in Australia simply to gain the advantage of importing other components free of duty. It is a farcical situation. The Government must come to grips with this issue. The responsibility rests with the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, who is at the table, to do something about it quickly. 
I asked a question of the Prime Minister this morning. It was answered by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. He said that the Government is prepared to listen to representations. The people in the industry and the unions concerned have been doing that sort of thing ever since the new plan was implemented. They have been receiving representations and going through a process which has achieved little or nothing. The honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  has raised the issue in the House. The honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  has also raised the issue. So it goes on. 
In spite of all the fine words of the Government about restoring confidence in industry, restoring consumer confidence and putting the economy back on its feet, it is difficult to find any material action in the direction to which I have made reference. The no reversion rule is not the end solution; I agree with that. I think there is need for discussion with the industry and the organisations which will be affected. Maybe the problems in the Australian motor industry will not be resolved simply by maintaining that rule. The solution depends on a very serious look at the plan as a whole. It is time for a clear announcement to be made here in the Parliament where such matters should be decided. To suggest that representations will be received, as the Minister did this morning, is merely putting the issue back in the hands of overworked and indecisive officials. We ought to be instituting a plan which will preserve the technological base of our country. A decision should be made that will save some 7500 jobs. A decision is needed that will prevent us from going back to the dark ages of being at the mercy of importers, a decision that will prevent this nation from becoming a technological desert, a decision that we will have an industrial base, a decision that we are prepared to go to lengths to preserve it. I do not want to be told that a committee will be established to look at the issues. If past performance is any guide, such a committee will be merely a sounding board and not a decision making body. 
My time has been very limited. I have had discussions with the Minister at the table. It is a complex problem. The time for fine speeches and brave words is past. Let this Government take action today to solve this pressing and immediate problem and look at the potential of job availability in the industry and the maintenance of an industry which is very important in this country. 
-In the past week we have seen on the part of this Government the most amazing display of giving with the one hand and taking with the other. What we have seen is an amazing smokescreen of deception, an economic package designed to confuse and bewilder, an attempt to fool people into believing that they are benefiting from the mini Budget. There has been a lot of hot air and guff about benefiting the lower income earners. The cold hard reality is very different. The miniBudget is a budget for the rich; the more one earns, the greater is the benefit. All we hear in the belly-aching of the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  is a union bashing exercise. He calls on us to take heed of what has happened in the United States. He expresses his desire to fight inflation by calling for wage restraint but never mentioning what we do about prices. He says that we should take advantage of the experience in the United States where 9 per cent of the work force is now unemployed. That is about twice the level of unemployed in this country. He wants to see a pool of unemployed that will dictate the price of labour, but to let prices go unchecked. 
This Government is continuing its program of robbing from the poor to give to the more affluent in society. The lower income earners have suffered not only from the new tax arrangements but also in that many of the programs that have suffered crippling cuts were programs aimed specifically at improving the quality of life in disadvantaged areas. Along with the miniBudget we have had mini policy statements from various Ministers including the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar). 
Like the contribution by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch),  the statement by the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs is another exercise in faulty logic and woolly thinking. Certainly his statements on the increased migrant intake directly contradict the statements on manpower policy made by his colleague, the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street).  Addressing the recent Australian and New Zealand Association for the Advancement of Science conference, the Minister made the following statement: 
If you look at the latest unemployment analysis, you will see that close to 60 000 unemployed people were classified as unskilled, whereas there were less than 2000 recorded unskilled vacancies. 
Yet the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs says that he will allow employers to recruit a limited number of unskilled workers. No one appreciates more than I do the contribution that our ethnic communities have made to our nation. I believe that we should do all we can to open our door to people who wish to migrate to Australia, but our intake of migrants must be geared to the capacity of our society to absorb those people successfully. 
It is a very distressing fact, but a fact nonetheless, that our society, our culture is infested with a dangerous trend towards racism. One has only to look at the terms that have been used to describe our new settlers to gauge the depth of prejudice in our country. Terms such as 'wog', ........, 'dago', 'wop', 'chink', and 'pom' are used. They are all terms of abuse that one does not have to travel very far to hear. The benches of the Country Party are rife in this area. I believe that we are moving away from our racist past. I believe that more and more people are coming to realise and appreciate the contribution that our ethnic communities have made. I hope that we can look forward to the day when racial prejudice will be a thing of the past, but we must honestly admit that racism does exist. If there is anything that can be guaranteed to bring out into the open this racism, it would be an immigration program that increased the competition for already scarce jobs. One has only to reflect on what went on in the United Kingdom after the First World War to find evidence of that sort of exercise. It is absolute insanity even to consider bringing in unskilled labour at a time when the number of job opportunities is 58 000 less than the number of unskilled workers seeking employment. 
In his statement the Minister makes a vague reference to gaps in the labour force; but what are these gaps? Surely if the program is to have any credibility at all these gaps must be spelt out clearly, not only here but also overseas; or will the Minister trust to good luck that the people applying to come here will possess magically the very occupational skills that are needed here, whatever they may be? I ask the Minister: Does he intend actively to recruit suitable persons to fill these gaps, or will the Government continue its immigration administration simply by taking skilled workers if, and only if, these persons offer themselves? What indication has the Government that its present administrative arrangements will fill these gaps? To the contrary, they will not. Did the Government find, during the past year, that it had a surplus of persons eligible under the occupational categories? If not, by what means does the Minister expect to recruit more skilled workers? 
Surely to God you can read about what happened before. The Minister is attempting to create the impression that the new quota of 70 000 migrants is based on a rational assessment of manpower needs. It is not. The reason is that no new machinery for the recruitment of particular occupational categories has been set up. Indeed, even the basic identification of areas in which skilled workers are needed has not been attempted. The present criteria of acceptable skills are based on short term data from the Commonwealth Employment Office. They reflect the day to day work force needs, not the long term trends within the economy. It is vital that we base our immigration policy on the long term projections rather than the temporary day to day fluctuations. The talk of skills is, in fact, a smokescreen. Nobody who has the necessary skills has been refused permission to migrate. 
The Government is increasing the quota of people allowed into the country under the family reunion categories. The concept of family reunion as a basis for migrant eligibility is one that the Australian Labor Party strongly supports. Indeed, it was under the Labor Government that the number of permanent residents entering the country to join families steadily increased as a proportion of the total migrant intake. But, as I said before, the number of new arrivals every year must be balanced by the capacity of the society to accommodate these new arrivals. People coming to this country have the right to expect support facilities that will meet their needs. It is not good enough to return to the old factory fodder notion of bringing people here by the boatload solely to fill places on the assembly line or have them, as would the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher),  who is trying to interject, in the Army in the jungles of Vietnam. The Labor Government introduced a whole range of services that benefited members of our ethnic communities. It introduced the Medibank scheme, community health centres, welfare rights officers, and translator and interpreter services. What a lot of hypocrisy we heard this afternoon when the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  answered a question about providing pamphlets to describe to people how the new Medibank proposals would operate. The Government has done away with the translator and interpreter services that provided the wherewithal for ethnic groups to take advantage of any of the benefits under the scheme. The Labor Government introduced child migrant education programs, community recreation projects and schemes designed to improve the quality of life in the disadvantaged areas of our cities- the areas of high ethnic group concentration. 
What is happening under this Government is that while the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs is increasing the level of immigration, so creating a greater need for these support services, the Treasurer is hell-bent on dismantling the same services. I refer to the education program. In table 1 on page 3 of Budget paper No.  %-Education ]975-76-of  the Hayden Budget there was an estimated outlay of $23.6m for migrant education needs. According to the latest statement by the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick),  expenditure has been cut back to a mere $9m. We are led to believe that the child migrant education program is included in the general allocation for the Schools Commission. In other words, there is no longer any guarantee that the special needs of migrant children will be catered for adequately. The Minister for Education admits that courses in adult preembarkation and shipboard education will be limited in 1976-77 to the same number of teachers and students as in the 1975-76 period. Despite the increased migrant intake there has been no corresponding increase in the provision for adult education in the English language to accommodate either those migrants already here or those which will arrive in the future. 
Probably one of the most savage cuts introduced in the mini-Budget was in urban and regional development. A whole series of programs directed at areas of ethnic concentration has been destroyed. These are the area improvement program, recreation programs, public transport in the urban areas and roads for the inner cities- programs that were designed to reshape the face of our cities to end the years of indifference and neglect by previous LiberalCountry Party governments. It is now certain that the Australian Assistance Plan is doomed. It is a program that offered, for the first time, the hope for our ethnic communities that their specific needs and aspirations would be recognised and, more importantly, that they, as communities, would be actively involved in schemes to meet these needs. There has been a reduction in forward estimates of over $400m in the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development. This cut will drastically affect the lives of those who live in the most disadvantaged areas of our cities- the inner city areas and the western suburbs of Sydney and Melbourne. It will destroy a whole range of schemes, many of which were deliberately designed with the needs of our ethnic communities in mind. 
I turn to the area of child care. This is not the first time that I have stressed the vital importance of child care for our ethnic communities generally and, in particular, the children in the disadvantaged areas. The importance of child care will increase even further as the Minister has decided to increase the migrant intake. In the first few years while people battle to establish themselves in this country it is often absolutely necessary for both parents to work. It is therefore vital that adequate child care be provided. Proper child care also has the effect of giving the child of migrant parents the opportunity to improve English language skills so that the child will not be disadvantaged on first going to school. Yet what has been the response of this Government? The appropriation for 1976-77 is exactly the same as it was in the original Hayden Budget allocation for 1975-76- a sum of $73m. In other words, spending on child care has been effectively reduced by 15 per cent if we take into account inflation. There is no provision for expansion despite the fact that the Government has decided to increase the number of migrants coming to this country. There will be an increase in demand for child care services but a decrease in the funds available to meet this demand. 
I now refer to the key area of health. I do not wish to discuss the effect of the Government's changes in Medibank- that has been effectively handled by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  and others- but I note in passing that the Medibank changes will once again disadvantage our ethnic communities. I mentioned the specific problem of not knowing how to take advantage of benefits. The cut in the other health programs will be $100m. There is no real detail in the Treasurer's statement as to how this cut is to be achieved. The reference to the community health program is brief and lacking in detail, but with a proposed cut in spending of $100m its future hardly looks hopeful. At best, we can hope that existing community health centres will continue to function while the plans for expanding and establishing new centres, so badly needed in the areas to which I have referred, will be shelved. Once again I stress the vital role that community health centres have begun to play in our ethnic communities. They are important for the medical services they provide and, for many people, community health centres are the only places where they can obtain medical advice in their own language. These community health centres are playing a vital social role as well as performing a medical function. They have become the focal point for many of our communities, places for ethnic communities to meet, discuss their problems and devise their own solutions. It is not difficult to see whose interests this Government protects. It is certainly the interests of neither our ethnic communities nor the disadvantaged people in this country. 
In the provisions for the Australian Assistance Plan the Treasurer blandly asserts that the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  is meeting State Ministers in order to discuss future arrangements for this program. We now know what these future arrangements are. The Federal Government will abandon the scheme totally. Through the Australian Assistance Plan communities were given, for the first time, the opportunity to meet to discuss their specific problems and to participate directly in solving these problems. Most of the regional councils in areas of ethnic group concentration are employing ethnic liaison officers- people who are actively seeking the views of our ethnic communities and are providing the skills and expertise to allow our ethnic communities to voice their needs in the wider Australian community. Such people are no longer active in the area of Medibank. They are stamping envelopes and forms to be sent away for approval for payment. The officers are not carrying out their duty. They are being dispersed in this great economic program of the Government. Once again they have been the first victims of the Government's deliberate policy of dismantling all that range of programs that we as a government introduced to improve the quality of life of the vast majority of Australians. 
At the same time this Government is systematically destroying all the support systems, the community centres, the area improvement programs,  the community  development officers, the regional councils, the community recreation programs and, as I have said, the translator and interpreter services. At the same time this Government has announced that it will increase the migrant intake for 1976-77. I have nothing against this increase if at the same time the Government is prepared similarly to increase the range and quality of services available for the newcomers. But what sort of logic is it that increases the immigration intake and at the same time reduces the quality and quantity of the services available once these people have arrived in our country? It is a return to the old 'dump them off the boat and into the factories ' philosophy. 
We as a government believed that every person arriving in Australia had the right to expect that community services would be geared to his or her particular needs. As a government we were progressively implementing that policy. This Government is reversing that policy, is turning the clock back, and is destroying all the initiatives of the past 3 years. I have already discussed the absence of rational planning in the increased intake. The figure of 20 000 more migrants is one that the Minister has plucked out of thin air. The talk of gaps in the work force is a smokescreen. We have never in the past exceeded the quota of migrants eligible under the occupational skills criteria of the immigration program. What we are talking about- let us be honest about it- is increasing the number of migrants under the family reunification program. This being the case, I welcome the extension of that category to include non-dependent work force age parents and their dependent children. At least the presence of members of their families who have already settled here will soften the blow of these cuts that I have mentioned, cuts that have destroyed most of the support systems available to our new arrivals. 
The Government has opted out of the role of providing for these people once they arrive here. Why has the Government not extended the policy on this issue right across the board having taken it so far, and that is the logical issue on which the policy rests? Why has it not extended the family reunification program to include brothers and sisters of the permanent residents in Australia? There are many cases, particularly when both parents are deceased, where the people involved wish to join their brothers or sisters in this country to reunite what is left of their families. I suggest that real consideration be given to extending the concept of family reunification. 
I wish to make only one last point about the Government's immigration program and that is to draw attention to the impression that the new Minister has given that he is intent on returning to the traditional sources of migrants for this country, in other words the United Kingdom. I call on the Minister to give the House an unqualified assurance that this new quota will not discriminate against the non-British migrant, that every person living in Australia will have an equal opportunity to nominate members of his family as permanent settlers, an unqualified assurance that eligibility under this new quota will in no way be influenced by the country of origin of the persons applying to migrate to this country. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Before he made his personal explanation on Wednesday, 24 March 1976, did any Judge of the Supreme Court of New South Wales contact him regarding his answer to my questions the previous day. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Did the National Advisory Committee for International Women's Year hand its report to him on or about 31 March 1976. 
If so, will he table the report and ensure that copies are available to the many interested Australian people anxious to see it. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
1 ) Was notice of the marriage of John Robert Kerr and Anne Robson which took place in New South Wales on 29 April 197S given to the authorized celebrant in accordance with section 42 of the Marriage Act and filed with the Registrar in accordance with section SO of the Act. 
Did both parties sign the notice. 
3 ) What was the date of the notice. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) How many persons have been deported under Section 14 of the Migration Act, or previous Acts in force, during the last 2 5 years. 
On how many occasions have Commissioners been appointed for the purpose of that Section and what were the occasions. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Education. Does the figure of $ 10.6m, which appears on page 33 of the statements attached to the Budget Speech as the 1976-77 allocation for migrant education, represent the total estimated expenditure on migrant education? If expenditure from general recurrent grants administered by the Schools Commission is not included in this figure, can the Minister state how much is to be allocated for the salaries of special teachers, the purchase of special language teaching equipment and payment for in-service training of teachers under the recurrent grants program? Are there other categories of expenditure on migrant education covered by recurrent grants? If so, what are they and how much expenditure is involved? 
by leave- I join with the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  in thanking the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  for his co-operation in allowing us to make a statement at this point. I say in passing that I hope to be able to elaborate at some future time on the points raised by the honourable member for Port Adelaide. 
At this point I should like to raise the question of the aero space industry. These tariff proposals deal with gliders and aircraft galleys. They really dodge the real issues in the report. Honourable members on this side of the House have been saying that decisions on tariffs must be political decisions. It is for the Government to bite the bullet. It must decide whether it wants a particular industry or not. The best way to achieve that is for the Industries Assistance Commission to examine the matter after the Government has determined the principle. Once again, we have the Government saying: 'Of course we want an aircraft industry but . . .'.If the Government wants one it must pay the price and the proposal should be put to the electorate at the appropriate time. The Government ought to have the courage to say that it wants an aircraft industry. If it does not, then the Government must say so clearly so that the electorate will know where the responsibility lies. 
There are proposals for rationalisation in the IAC report on the aerospace industry. They have some degree of sense out they do not grapple with the real problem. As the industry will now be structured following this report, it will be below survival level. We have heard nothing from this Government other than pious platitudes about the need to stimulate industry. The Government's reaction belies its words. If high technology, skilled labour and confidence in the future mean anything this Government is turning its face against it. Our defence authorities over the years have said that the defence industries are the fourth arm of defence. The July issue of the  Pacific Defence Reporter  refers to the way in which this Government has treated the fourth arm of defence. I quote from page 32 of the July issue of the  Pacific Defence Reporter.  The article is headed  Benign Neglect: 
In case you think I'm exaggerating, you might like to question how many Ministers involved with the aircraft industry have visited the major contractors since the IAC Report was released last October. As far as I can find, the answer is none. 
And in case you think that advice to Ministers has been improved by the proliferation of government organisations concerned with industrial support in Defence and Industry and Commerce, it appears that nobody of Assistant Secretary level or above has visited the aircraft industry or held formal discussions on the IAC Report since its release. 
Remembering that the lAC's first recommendation was that 'the local industry be involved in the planning process for procurement of defence equipment at the earliest possible stage ', the ministerial platitudes about the 'fourth arm of defence' should be the cause of acute personal embarrassment. 
My personal suspicion is that they've relied too much on inputs from their advisers instead of getting the facts direct on a politically sensitive industry. 
The article by 'Daedalus' in that publication seems to be most relevant. 
It is time for the Government to act. The way the aerospace industry is now to be structured at below survival level means that a low cost toolage system will be accentuated- a system in which presses, moulds and so forth are not designed for long runs and a system which leads to inefficiency and gross wastage and needs a more skilled work force. With all the resources of skilled labour now in this industry I am looking to the Government to make an announcement of what it will do for the industry in the immediate future, until such time as reasonable defence contracts can be achieved. Let us hear of the use of the skilled labour to investigate solar energy, to investigate medical electronics which now must be adapted to Australian conditions, and to develop some sort of commuter vehicle for the future. Let us at last hear a positive statement from the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs which will give confidence to industry and an assured future to the work force. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Scholes)  adjourned. 
-In order not to delay the House or to take up any more time than is probably necessary to make a number of points, it is my intention to give notice that during the Committee stage I will move the first amendment that has been circulated in the name of the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  It relates to clause S. It states: 
After sub-clause (2) insert the following sub-clause: '(2a) A reference in paragraph (2) (a) to action taken by a Minister does not include a reference to action taken by a delegate of a Minister. ' 
I will present my arguments in relation to that amendment now. The honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown)  placed one construction on the amendment, but for the life of me I cannot see how that construction could be held to be the real meaning of it. Without being pedantic about the terminology, I think the amendment I have foreshadowed ought to be considered seriously by the Government as the implications are very serious, not necessarily to citizens in general but to migrants who are at risk. It is to migrants that what I have to say will be related. 
I am pleased to see that this Government is adopting in a general sense the recommendations made as a result of the Labor Government's initiatives. For many years the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  raised in this House the question of administrative discretions.  His  questions and the replies that were given to them stimulated discussion in this country and changed the pattern of thinking for all time. My colleague, the honourable member for KinsfordSmith has mentioned many of the questions of broad principle which arise on this Bill. All of us are conscious of the need to determine the limits of administrative discretion. All of us can recognise that decisions made on a political basis are not amenable to review by an official. But what is of great concern is the fact that many decisions purportedly made by Ministers are made in fact by officials. The pace of modern administration is such that in many cases the Minister becomes a mere figurehead, a busy parliamentarian faced with mountains of files which need signing. No matter how well officials may draft explanatory notes, the fact is that what is decided by officials becomes the final decision and Ministers are put in the unenviable position of defending an action which they have taken without realising the consequences. 
Of course, this is not the case with decisions of great political consequence. I am not referring to them. I am sure that they are looked at carefully. 
I shall not be concerned with them during the course of this debate. What I am concerned with is the way in which many decisions which vitally affect the people, decisions small in themselves, mount up to despotism. I am complaining about what the eminent English judge, Lord Hewitt, in 1934 called 'The New Despotism'. Today I want to talk about this new despotism as it affects the operation of the Migration Act and as it affects the daily lives of the ethnic groups in our community. Let me quote, firstly, from page 1 7 of the final report of the Committee on Administrative Discretions, known as the Bland report. It states: 
We were pleased to be told by the Department of Immigration that, subject to three provisos, it was not opposed to the concept of external review of administrative discretions under its legislation. 
The first proviso was that the review should not be available to a person unless he is an Australian citizen or a resident of Australia admitted as a migrant, as distinct from a person in Australia under temporary permit or here without any entry permit. Those under temporary permit or those without any permit include students, alien entrepreneurs or employees, entertainers, ships' deserters and visitors. Yet, said the Department, this should not preclude a citizen or a resident of Australia from seeking review of a decision about the entry or extension of a temporary stay of a spouse, minor child, fiance(e) or aged parent. 
The second proviso concerned the character and manner of review of decisions relating to refusal of passports, citizenship and entry and re-entry, where the decision was based on security considerations. Here, the Department felt that the agreement of the Director-General of Security was required and that proper safeguards should be introduced to protect security (see paragraph 1 13 et seq of our Interim Report and paragraph 172 below). The third proviso was that any review process should not be entitled to question government policy. This presents no problem (see paragraph 183 below). 
The report also states: 
At our request, the Department reconsidered the question whether its first proviso referred to above might be qualified in relation to persons admitted under temporary permit who had been in Australia for a lengthy period. It felt unable to change its view. It told us of the problems presented in the U.S.A. and Canada where a review process exists and of its own experience of problems encountered under its administration. We remain unconvinced that a review process would not be desirable in respect of persons admitted under temporary permit who have been in Australia for a substantial period, say, 10 years. The reviewing authority would, of course, be required to accept any relevant government policy. Equally in our view, cases of persons granted visas overseas and refused an entry permit under section 6 of the Migration Act on arrival should be reviewable. For these two classes of cases, we feel the Ombudsman process would be appropriate. 
In my view, that clearly spells out the Department's attitude in many of these cases. The Bland Committee was meeting about the time of the deportation of one Ivusic a Croatian. Ivusic appealed to the courts, and the learned judge of the Australian Capital Territory Supreme Court who heard the appeal found that much of the information given to the Minister of the day was unfair; that it was incorrect. Yet His Honour said that the facts were that Ivusic 's solicitor had written to the Minister and pointed out that those particulars were wrong. The deportee had had what the law calls a fair hearing under the rules of natural justice. The matter had been taken up with the Minister, and that had been regarded as an appeal on Ivusic 's behalf. 
I do not want to traverse that ground again, but I am glad to see that in cases such as that there is now a right of appeal to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. But who can appeal? Those who can appeal are persons who have committed certain crimes in Australia, and they can appeal only if they are permanent residents in Australia. Visitors or those here on temporary permits cannot appeal against deportation after crimes. Thus there is some general measure of justice for migrants who commit crimes. Who else may appeal? Section 14 of the Migration Act provides for the Minister to deport certain persons when he does not approve of their conduct. The section is surrounded with elaborate provisions for appeal. It has never been used. Who else may appeal? The answer to that, simply, is no one. The right of appeal extends to none of the thousands of ordinary migrants, only to the criminals in a certain class and those whose conduct the Minister decides is unbecoming. In those cases it is entirely up to the Minister. The right extends only to those who fall under section 14, a section which has never been used by any Minister, from any party. Why? It can only be because officials have advised Ministers not to act under this section, not to get into a position where their actions may be examined by reasonable men. The present Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  sometimes waxes indignant about an illegal immigrant; but his words are always in terms of disobedience to the Act, without any regard to any mitigating circumstances that may be involved. A very real fear is created in the minds of hundreds of thousands of decent, law abiding migrants that they- whoever 'they' might be- might get them and there is simply no appeal. Let us have an end to that situation. It may well be that acceptance of the amendment to which I have referred is the way out. 
As I said, the Bland Committee reported that there was strong departmental opposition to a system of appeals for persons who were not already permanently resident in Australia; that is, no appeals for those contemplating coming to Australia or for those here illegally or on temporary visas. For the potential immigrant overseas, there are issues such as security clearances, criminal records and illnesses which might be such that they could not be brought into the open without revealing sources or causing unnecessary embarrassment. It can be argued that persons already here, whether illegally or on a temporary basis, should not have a right of appeal which would give them an advantage over the law abiding person who waits his turn in the queue. 
In addition, the Canadian experience has been that an appeal system can be the cause of long delays. This argument was used by the Minister in a previous debate in this House. Those illegally in Canada who can delay their departure for long periods tend to have a stronger emotional claim to be allowed to remain in Canada. Nevertheless, an examination of the Migration Act indicates that the Migration Act, the Administrative Appeals Tribunal Act and the Ombudsman Bill, taken together, leave many serious anomalies and put migrants into the hands of officials who can and do make arbitrary decisions. It is true that the Migration Act puts certain powers in the hands of the Minister, and particularly in the case of deportation orders which only the Minister can sign. But experience has shown that the Minister does follow the advice of his officials. The Act is so constructed that in many cases a deportation order is a mere formality which is difficult to dispute. 
Nowhere does there appear to be a proper avenue for an appeal against a ministerial decision to be considered on its merits. For this reason there appears to be room for this Bill to be amended to make such an appeal system available to the genuine case, without importing the worst facets of the Canadian system. In other words, there ought to be room for an appeal system, based on fairness and justice, in all cases where the migrant is a permanent resident in Australia and in those cases where the illegal entrant or the migrant on a temporary visa has a material change in his circumstances since he first entered or decided to enter the country. 
The Bland Committee was at pains to ensure that administrative decisions of officials were subject to review and yet left ministerial decisions, which were expressions of government policy, free from external pressures. But it noted that in some of the old Acts powers were given to Ministers which in modern Acts were given to officials, and noted that the legislation of these older Acts was undergoing change to bring it into line with the realities of everyday life. Although the Migration Act is dated 1958, it is actually a rehash of legislation going back to 1901. It reflects little credit on its authors for the precision of the drafting. It is a curious collection of past provisions which have been put together in a form which almost defies reading. In the way in which it sweeps up some and casts others aside, it fits the description given to another law, of resembling some antediluvian harvesting machine fashioned by generations of long dead craftsmen from materials not now in use and with tools only to be found in a science museum, hissing and wheezing steam at every joint and breathing clouds of smoke which frequently blind those nominally in charge of them. 
-You would know all about Puffing Billy: He sits on your side of the House. In the meantime this Bill should be amended. There is no reason why administrative decisions, as opposed to political decisions, should not be examined by the Ombudsman. As there is not a great deal of time left to me I want to refer quickly to a couple of other matters. The Bland Committee report posed the following question: 
Should decisions of Ministers be examinable under an Ombudsman-type process? We do not believe that policy decisions should be, whether they are in the positive and personal exercise of a discretionary power conferred by legislation or are by way of directions to officials (whatever the authority for giving these directions) as to how they should exercise their powers and functions (whether under delegations from the Minister or not). 
Policy considerations constitute or are likely to constitute a large element in decisions or directions of Ministers. They may not be confined to matters within a Minister's portfolio. They can, as well, be dictated or circumscribed by the availability of funds, which itself reflects policy factors of the highest order. There ought, for example, to be no scope for scrutiny of a failure to develop a program which Parliament has authorised, if the funds it has voted clearly restrict the kind of development a Minister or department may hopefully desire. 
Next there is the question whether other decisions of Ministers should be examinable. There are 2 sides to the argument that such decisions should be examinable. But very briefly, they are these: On the one hand, whatever qualifications it might be argued are legitimately attachable in this modern age to the doctrine of ministerial responsibility, it is difficult to suggest that there should be any qualification in relation to a decision of the Minister himself. On the other hand, such are the pressures on the Parliament nowadays that the doctrine of ministerial responsibility can often be meaningless. Wherever the balance of the argument lies, straight away we come up against the problem of whether a decision relates to policy or administration. Our own experience leaves us doubting whether any defensible line of demarcation can be drawn between decisions of policy and of administration. If the decisions of Ministers are not examinable, the problem of attempting to distinguish policy from administrative decisions will not arise. 
I have covered the general argument but, in conclusion I want to make one or two quick points. As already explained, decisions of Ministers are not examinable under the New Zealand, Western Australian and South Australian Acts. Whether this approach should be followed in our legislation or whether administrative decisions of Ministers should be examinable is essentially a matter of highest policy for determination by the Government. If the decision is that administrative decisions of Ministers should be examinable, this could be given effect to by a provision which gives the Ombudsman jurisdiction where a Minister consents. Such consent presumably would not be given where a Minister considered that a policy decision was involved. So there are and should be safeguards in the matter. 
It is a high policy matter, as the report indicates. If it is, why has the Attorney-General not given the benefit of his views? One suspects that the problem is too difficult to face up to. Like other matters facing this Government, it has been swept under the carpet. The fact that one course has been taken in the States and another one in Britain indicates that there are equally valid grounds for either approach. I sincerely hope that the Attorney-General will tell us what they are. Finally, may I say to the Minister that I for one will be looking forward to the implementation of the third stage of the program- a revised system of examination by the courts. As things now stand, the courts can never decide matters of administrative law on their merits. They can deal only with obscure technical points. As one who has been and will continue to be directly involved in establishing the rights of migrants, I find the present situation exasperating. One matter which we will shortly be debating will clearly come to this point. I have no doubt that those lawyers in the House will certainly agree with that. It is long past the time when our court systems were overhauled in such a way that the 'New Despotism' is brought under control. 
-I move: 
After sub-clause (2) insert the following sub-clause: '(2a) A reference in paragraph (2 ) (a) to action taken by a Minister does not include a reference to action taken by a delegate of a Minister. '. 
I have canvassed the reasons for moving that amendment. I do not desire to pursue them any further. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 6 to 1 3- by leave- taken together. 

 -Mr Speaker, I claim to have been misrepresented. 
-I congratulate the honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Gillard)  on his maiden speech. I am sad to think that he joins the long list of union bashers that now occupy the government benches. 
The Treasurer would not have enough brains to give himself a headache. He will go the way of all the fold who will sit on that side of the House for a very short space of time. I rise to support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam).  Before moving into the area of my special concern, immigration and ethnic affairs, I shall make a number of general remarks about the Budget. The first point is that this is not a budget. It is not an economic document; it is a political one. This Budget will do nothing to solve the economic problems facing Australia. It will do nothing to boost business confidence or increase consumer spending. For the first time since 1951-52 government spending will fall behind the rate of inflation. This Government had the opportunity in its Budget to stimulate the economy. Government spending in non-inflationary areas such as capital works, roads, housing, sewerage and construction generally would have had the effect of stimulating the economy and reducing unemployment. 
The Budget will have one sure result- a massive increase in unemployment. The immediate impact of the Budget will be another 60 000 unemployed. Its long term effects will be a level of unemployment the like of which we have not seen since the Second World War. The reality is that unless the Fraser Government reverses its strategy, the unemployment level by the end of the financial year could be as high as 700 000. Seven hundred thousand people will be out of work. They will be forced to live on the dole, with their hopes crushed, and their pride and self-respect under attack. The whole strategy of the Budget is an attack on the wage earner. It will have the effect of reducing real wages by as much as $15 a week. The aim of this Budget is transparent. It is to create a massive pool of unemployed, to force down living standards and to attempt to crack the back of the trade union movement in order to force the lower income earners into submission. It does nothing for the economy. Its concern is not economic; it is based on a narrow reactionary view of the role of government. 
Under the Labor Government positive efforts were made to solve the community problems. Under the Whitlam Government for the first time there was a government responsive to the needs of the community. Children in deprived areas like my electorate of Melbourne for the first time had a government that cared about their educational needs. For the first time, Federal spending on education was based on need. 
The honourable member for Higgins can say 'rubbish'. He is a member of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Specific Learning Difficulties. He should stand up in this House and tell the truth about schools like St Brigid's and others. He should now be supporting my contention. For the first time, schools in the inner city and industrial areas received special funding to rectify the years of neglect of the Liberal-Country Party Government. Children in these areas could share the benefits of our educational system. No longer were they treated as second class citizens, fit only for the most menial, lowest paid jobs in the community. 
This Budget spells the end to all that. Already the Fraser Government has indicated that it intends to downgrade the role of the Schools Commission in determining education funding priority. It intends to hand responsibility back to State government's which have indicated, over and over again, their indifference to the needs of children in disadvantaged areas. Under Labor, working mothers found for the first time a government that regarded children as a right. Local communities were encouraged by the Whitlam Government to set up community health centres geared to their needs. Urban and regional development programs brought parks  and recreational facilities to the industrial wastelands of the inner and western suburbs of Melbourne. Under Labor, for the first time, the aspirations, needs and rights of the ethnic communities were recognised. The Budget spells an end to all that. It signifies an attempt to crush the hope and destroy the newly awakened involvement of the community. It spells a return to the philosophy of government indifference in the face of community need- a return to a system of government which is cold, distant and irrelevant. 
The Budget puts paid to the hopes of education equality and the chance of a better environment in my own area of Melbourne. It is a kick in the teeth for all those groups of concerned people, the people who set up the child minding collectives, the members of the residents associations, the people working in the area of social welfare, the Aboriginal groups with their legal and medical services and their housing projects. In the area of Areyonga - 
-I believe it all right. The people in the Areyonga community outside Alice Springs believe it.  Mr Derek,  the Council  President,  and  Mr Mantjakura,  the Council VicePresident, have written to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner).  I ask for leave to have their letter incorporated in  Hansard. 
Among other things, that letter refers to the fact that a Budget allocation of $290,658 was requested to cover wages, operating costs, tools and equipment, materials and new capital items for the Areyonga community. In the 1975-76 Budget the community received the princely sum of $174,000. Recently I visited the community. I guarantee that not one back bencher opposite would know that it existed, let alone know of its needs and requirements in the areas of education and housing. The Budget is a kick in the guts to these people. If anybody doubts that, let him go and talk to the people concerned. 
In the area of my portfolio, immigration and ethnic affairs, the cuts are particularly savage. The Budget once more relegates our ethnic groups to the role of factory fodder. Overall, the ethnic groups have been especially affected by the destruction of the Australian Assistance Plan. The community health programs, the community information bureaus, the welfare rights and the area improvement programs all directly  affect our ethnic communities. All these programs take into account ethnic group needs. All these programs encourage ethnic groups to take the initiative. All these programs have been hit by the Budget. 
Let us look at child and adult migrant education. There has been an attempt by Government spokesmen to deny that there has been a cut in this area, but the reality is that there has been a cut in real terms of 2 per cent. Spending has increased from $28.7m to $30.6m- an increase that does not match the 12 per cent inflation rate. In the area of adult migrant funding there has been an increase from $8.2m to $9.1m. Once again the increase does not take into account the effects of inflation. The cut in real terms is 3 per cent, despite the fact that the Government intends to increase the migrant intake quota for this year by 40 per cent. In other words, the Government effectively is decreasing spending on adult migrant education while increasing the need. The very real need for adult migrant education programs is shown by the fact that only 4 per cent of the adult nonEnglishspeaking migrants benefit from English language classes. Thousands of migrant workers, because of their poor command of the English language, are condemned to the lowest paid and most menial jobs, and this Budget does nothing to rectify the situation. It reduces the chances of adult migrants receiving special English language education. In Victoria alone the Department of Education estimates that there are 85 000 migrant children who need special help with English but who are being given no assistance whatsoever. Yet this Budget cuts spending on migrant education by 2 per cent. 
One of the most widely welcomed and accepted initiatives of the Labor Government was the introduction of ethnic radio. This Budget allocates $105,000 to ethnic radio. These funds will last until the end of September 1976. What a magnificent effort! I remember all the hypocrisy of the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  when the scheme was about to be continued. I wonder what he will say to the ethnic groups now. The Budget Papers blandly note that after September 1976 'it is intended that plans will be announced for longer term ethnic broadcasting'. What is that intended to mean? If the Government intends to put an end to ethnic radio, why does it not have the guts to say so? Already there are indications that the Government intends to abolish ethnic radio. A Sydney journalist, Peter Durisch writing in the  Inside Column  in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of 3 July, quotes what he calls a senior Government source as saying: 
The whole thing is a can of worms. It doesn't help assimilation. I wish we 'd never heard of it. 
I challenge this Government to give a clear and unequivocal assurance that ethnic radio will continue but it does not agree with that sort of philosiphy. Its actions tend to say the opposite. Another area of particular importance is the area of community health services. Here, for the first time, members of our ethnic communities could receive medical advice in their own language. These community health centres became focal points for ethnic community incentives. The allocation in this Budget is $88m. 
If the honourable member for Riverina can read I will give him a copy of the document. This is an effective cut in last year's allocation of 17.7 per cent. This cut will have the effect of dismantling the community health program. Once again our ethnic groups are amongst the first to surfer from this Government's policy of indifference and neglect. 
It is better to be able to read. If the honourable member for Holt went back and looked after his bees he would be far more effective than he is in this House. In the area of hospital development programs there has been an effective cut of 12 per cent. This means that disadvantaged areas, areas with the poorest facilities and the fewest hospital beds, will continue to be discriminated against. Once again these are precisely the areas of the highest ethnic group concentration. I have already referred to the Australian Assistance Plan. Under the regional councils set up under the Australian Assistance Plan special ethnic group initiated projects were funded. Ethnic liaison officers were appointed. For the first time the voice of our ethnic communities could be heard in the community. Funds for the Australian Assistance Plan have been cut from $7m to $5m. Sufficient funds will be made available to wind up its operations but the Australian Assistance Plan will cease to exist after 30 June next year. 
In the area of legal aid, another area of special concern for ethnic groups since the Australian Legal Aid Office recognised a special responsibility to assist migrants with legal difficulties, the program is again being effectively dismantled. There is no allowance for new offices, no allowance for new salaried staff, and insufficient funds to employ lawyers given the demand for legal aid. Once again the ethnic community is being discriminated against. Once again the migrant, the person with a poor command of English, will be wide open to exploitation. He will be left without assistance to try to grapple with a confusing and complex legal system. The Australian Legal Aid Office offered to many migrants the only hope of justice, the only protection of their rights as citizens. This Budget will destroy the legal aid offered to the ethnic communities by the former Labor Government. 
Is the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs aware that many Lebanese refugees who have had their visas approved in Australia have been stranded for months in conditions of extreme economic and emotional hardship in cities all over the world and are unable to have their papers processed by our overseas officials? Will the Minister inform the House how many Lebanese refugees have actually arrived in Australia since December 1975? How many of those people have fallen within the normal entry criteria as either parents or children of Australian residents or persons with special occupational skills? How many persons who have been granted visas on compassionate grounds outside the normal guidelines have actually arrived in Australia? 
I rise one again to draw attention to the plight of migrant people in our great cities and once again to refer to the misleading way- I have not used the term that I wanted to use as I have been advised by you,  Mr Acting Speaker,  in the past not use it- in which the Government attempts to pull the wool over the eyes of certain individuals in our community. The migrant people, who contribute so much to the economic and cultural well-being of the country, received recognition of their special needs for the first time under the 3 years of Labor government. They are now again being treated as second class citizens. In the economically disastrous and socially heartless Lynch Budget their legitimate needs have been treated with contempt, as I outlined in my speech on the Appropriation Bill (No. 1 ) 1976-77 on 26 August. 
It seems that what I and other honourable members on this side of the House have said on this subject has had some effect, because apparently the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has suddenly realised that this shabby treatment of migrants is likely to have serious electoral repercussions. He does not intend actually to do something of real significance for the migrant peoples. After all, few of them are in the salary categoy of $25,000-plus a year, which is the group on whose interests this Government makes its decisions. The Prime Minister has decided to engage in one of the enormous confidence tricks for which he and those on the other side of the House who support him have become notorious. 
What is this confidence trick? Precisely this: The Prime Minister came up with the idea of buying off legitimate criticism of his Government's shabby record in the migrant welfare field by making $50,000 available to the Greek community in Melbourne and $50,000 available to the Italian community in Sydney. He has since thought better of this idea. Presumably he thinks it only highlights the sorry position of recipient migrant groups. So he has now come up with the brilliant idea of establishing a migrant information centre in each of the cities to which I have made reference. 
It is a fairly brilliant idea. I support absolutely the brainwave of the Prime Minister. But let us put this laudable idea into proper perspective. It is a laudable idea, but is one that is not backed by any positive commitment. The Prime Minister proposes to make available to these centres the pittance of $50,000 each. So much for the depth of commitment behind the Prime Minister's initiative. He is not interested in bettering the circumstances of the disadvantaged. He is engaging in tokenism and in a blatant political exercise from which he hopes to extract a maximum of electoral mileage for a minimum of commitment. The situation is laughable. He has compounded the joke by asking the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  and the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  to think up ways of spending the $50,000. 
If the honourable member does not believe that he should go and ask the Prime Minister. The same situation applies to one of the commitments of the Minister for Social Security,  Senator Guilfoyle,  who went to the Italian community in Melbourne and made a great play of donating $5,000 to FILEF, which is an Italian welfare organisation. Now either the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs or the Minister for Social Security wants to get rid of a lynch-pin in the organisation. The FILEF organisation has been told by way of correspondence that the grant for the employment of a welfare rights officer will terminate on 1 January 1977. So this great hypocritical approach to trying to dupe migrants into believing what is going on in the Budget does not stand the test of examination. 
This is not an extraordinary situation. We all know the severe limitations on the work of those 2 Ministers. But even they will not have to tax their brains unduly, if they have any, to find ways of spending such a pittance. We on this side of the House say to the Prime Minister By all means let us have migrant information centres not only in Sydney and Melbourne but also in other major centres of population, but let us not insult the many people among us who deserve better from this Government than shameful acts of tokensim. Let us have migrant information centres set up with realistic staffs and budgets so that the ethnic communities among us can begin to receive the sort of services from government to which they are well and truly entitled. 
-If that should occur I will make it a point of not being here. You would have to be a masochist to listen to that sort of thing. This evening I would like to draw attention to the incredible lack of understanding of industrial relations by the people who lead for the other side of the House in these matters. There has been an incredible attack on the fundamental principles of our conciliation and arbitration system to such an extent that there is a goading of industrial organisations into taking action that I believe is the that last action that the unions or their members wish to take. 
We have heard a lot from the other side about the way in which inflation has developed. When one examines the very springboard of inflation and deals with 3 fundamental questions of where it started, one can hark back to the McMahon Budget strategy. The McMahon Government tried to buy itself out of trouble during 1972 irresponsibly with the undervaluation of the Australian dollar, the subsequent influx of overseas capital and the exploitation of Australian resources. That was the springboard. If honourable members hark back and if they are honest about it- that is pretty difficult for a few members on the other side- they would in fact - 
In respect of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act I must refer just to one matter, of Qantas Airways Ltd v. Amalgamated Workers Union and others, No. 2778 of 1975. Reference was made to individuals who clearly came within the provisions of the Act. The late Commissioner Chambers spelled out clearly and unequivocally the first obligation of people involved in industrial matters. He said that the role of the Commission was not to become the regulator of the economy in a compulsory arbitration system but to pursue at length the conciliatory provisions of the Act. They were very wise words. They were followed over a long period during my experience with the Commission. Those who have had any experience whatsoever- and there are none on the other side- would have to agree with that statement. 
The matter I have referred to has been before the Commission on 2 occasions. In the past 12 months there has been a long series of negotiations to try to arrive at a conclusion that would be compatible with the interests of both parties. The employers took action within the terms of the Act to refer the matter to a full bench of the Commission. That was resolved in the spirit of conciliation. In the last week or so the Government has again gone back just to pour petrol on the flames to ensure that this dispute will not be resolved and that the unionists will be forced to take some industrial action because they cannot be satisfied within the conciliatory operation of the Act. I put it to honourable members opposite that if they demand control of workers and the price of their labour the Government should control prices. I have not heard one word from Government supporters about controlling the prices of food and commodities that govern the standard of living. Why are not people opposite honest about this? Why do they not say something about that? Would any business sell its product at a price below what it costs to produce the product? Just work it out. Why are you not fair and equitable about this? 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Is there a policy on working tourist visas; if so, which ethnic groups are permitted to come to Australia as working tourists. 
Which ethnic groups are involved, and how many of each group or nationality are at present in Australia. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice: 
May the Minister cancel temporary entry permits under section 7 of the Migration Act. 
If so, on how many occasions has the Minister done so during the last 1 5 years, and for what reasons. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) How many times have persons been deported under section 14 of the Migration Act during the last 25 years. 
On how many occasions have Commissioners been appointed for the purposes of this section, and what were the occasions. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) How many persons have been deported under section 16 of the Migration Act during each calendar year for the last 16 years. 
Under which sub-sections were they deported. 
How many deportation orders have been signed under section 1 6 of the Migration Act during each calendar year for the last 16 years. 
How many of these deportation orders are still in force, and in which year were they issued. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice: 
Who are the persons he has appointed as prescribed authorities under sub-section 40 ( 1 ) of the Migration Act for the purposes of sections 38 and 39 of the Act. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice: 
What is the Special Reports Section of his Department. 
) What is its function. 
How many officers are employed in the Section. 
What is their background and training. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice: 
What is the basis on which the present occupational categories are worked out. 
-At the outset I join with the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman)  in the outline which he has given on the activities and work of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Specific Learning Difficulties.  Mr Speaker,  I think you must take a great deal of credit because it was on your initiative that the Committee was set up to deal with such an important subject. I am sure that a lot of work has been involved in the report which has been presented. I feel sure that the contributions which will result and the debate which will ensue will be worth every ounce of our effort and of your initiative. When the Committee started off there was a problem about the terms of reference and about the scope of the Committee 's research and activities. It is pleasing to note that the terms of reference were broadened to take into account, such factors as the failure to achieve, issues such as physical handicap, varying socio-economic levels, the culturally deprived and other factors which could contribute to the terrible situation where an individual, no matter where he comes from or whatever his walk of life, is deprived of the advantage of education and of the right that he has to achieve his maximum potential. 
As far as the report is concerned, I do not want to rehash or to recapitulate the statement which was made by the  Chairman  of the Committee, the honourable member for Mitchell. I think he has generally covered the areas which need to be covered at this stage. I understand that the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  has given an undertaking to the  Chairman  that the House will be afforded an opportunity to debate the report at some time in the future. I think this is terribly important. I am sure the issues which are raised will motivate the minds of honourable members in the House. The recommendations ought to be considered very seriously. If there is an objective approach to the matter I am sure something of great value will be achieved. In passing I note that it is a pity that no research has been done in this area. This is probably the first time research has ever been undertaken. It is a tragedy that we spend millions of dollars on educational research but probably that money is ill-directed at the time and in the way it is spent. I think the report contains a reference to this matter. 
I think the issues which will ensue certainly will make good reading for those who are interested in the work which was done by witnesses who contributed over the long hearing. I pay tribute to the other members of the Committee. I have served on a number of committees both inside and outside the Parliament. It was a pleasure to work with the  Chairman.  Everybody, irrespective of his political party, contributed to the maximum. The report, I believe, is a credit to the Committee and to the staff of the Committee. I believe that the debate which will ensue will be of credit to the Committee. The Committee was worth every effort that was put into it. The report will be a contribution to the very important subject of specific learning difficulties. 
I rise to bring to the attention of the House and the Australian people the tragic plight of many refugees from the unhappy state of Lebanon and the Fraser Government's shoddy record in relation to these people. The chronology of our Government's record with relation to the current Lebanese situation was outlined in a recent speech in this House by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam),  and that record will establish facts of relevance to some of the points I will make later. 
Operational difficulties began occurring in our Beirut office soon after open conflict broke out in Lebanon in March 1975. As I have indicated, that sequence of events was outlined in the Leader of the Opposition's speech. The Australian Government closed our Embassy in Beirut on 28 March and on 1 April the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  issued a statement in which he made the point that Australian missions existed in Cairo, Athens, Nicosia, Ankara and Tel Aviv and that special arrangements were being made to post an immigration officer in Damascus. This officer duly commenced operations on 9 April. Five days later the Minister announced a relaxation of normal travel documents and medical requirements in relation to applicants from the Lebanon. 
By 20 May criticism of the Minister's performance had so built up that he felt constrained to defend himself by claiming that Australia had done more to assist Lebanese wishing to migrate than any other country, and cited the officer in Damascus by way of example. On 26 June that officer was withdrawn to Nicosia and on that day the Minister made an announcement to that effect and because 26 June was a Saturday the announcement duly got no media coveragewhich was just what the Minister wanted. On 9 and 15 September the Minister announced initiatives to speed up the processing of nominations submitted in Australia for close relatives of Australian residents- that is those covered by category A. On 23 September the Minister announced that reinforcements would be despatched to our Nicosia office bringing the total staff to nine, including one medical officer. 
I have just returned from the Middle East. In the past few weeks, I have visited most major centres of Lebanese refugee concentrations. I can assure this House that beneath the comforting veneer of Press reports emanating from the Minister's office is a reality of serious and continuing bungling on the part of the Fraser Government, particularly the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. These are the farts. At present about 75 per cent of all Lebanese migrants are entering Australia via Nicosia, where our office has recently been strengthened by the arrival of the Waterman task force. That is just as well, because the situation in Nicosia when I was there was chaotic. Long periods of delay during the processing of visas were par for the course, and compared most unfavourably with the operations of the Canadians, who were managing to get visas processed in about 5 to 15 days, a fact on which the Minister should reflect before he makes grandiose statements about his Government doing more than any other government to settle Lebanese refugees. 
I have here a number of case studies. Without going into a great deal of detail, I should like to mention one or two. A father and his family applied in Damascus in May 1976 before that post was closed. They were nominated by a brother and sister of the father. In a Syrian application, a man and his son were sponsored by the father's brother, who is an Australian citizen. All the family belongings in Lebanon were destroyed. The application was finally rejected. A family currently in Nicosia was sponsored by a brotherinlaw of one of the parents. The date of application was March 1976, and those people are still waiting. Those are just samples picked at random from the sad catalogue of delays and questionable rejections I have in front of me of cases taken from Athens, Nicosia, Cairo and other places. 
Why have these delays occurred? Is it the fault of the officer involved? Certainly it is not. Before the Fraser Government undertakes any more of its sneaky tricks in testing out tried and true Labor men with spurious offers of knighthoods, it might consider supporting and rewarding some of the hard-working officers in our undermanned posts in the Middle East who have faced up to the daunting tasks imposed upon them by this Government without complaint and with considerable skill and fortitude. Men like Brogan in Nicosia, Stuckey in Cairo, and Cameron, who was our Damascus officer, deserve nothing but the highest praise. The fault lies squarely with the Government, which has allowed these posts to remained undermanned after the need for rapid upgrading had become more than obvious. The longer the crisis lasted the more the scope of the operation in Nicosia grew, and each week twice the number of applications that could be handled were received. The Department knew that. Why did not the Minister act? 
The crisis ran longer, and so too did the plight of the Lebanese presenting themselves become more serious. When the crisis began it was those with money who left first. Increasingly, those who are seeking entry have undergone hardship and, until recently, many were destitute. Many were understandably emotional. The officers were frequently threatened and the police were called more than once. The Department knew that too. Why did not the Minister act? Finally, the tragic situation in Nicosia was compounded by the lack of a medical officer. No wonder that the processing of visas was such a timeconsuming business when X-rays taken in Nicosia had to be sent to London for interpretation. In the meantime, the applicants sat and waited and the less well off saw their savings gradually dwindle until they were left with nothing. That situation was known to the Department. Once again, why did not the Minister act. 
Finally the Minister did act. When it became impossible to keep the lid on the situation by issuing more bland Press releases, and prompted finally by pressure from a sub-committee of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, he acted, and relief has arrived in Nicosia in the shape of the Waterman task force under the direction of  Mr Waterman,  who is a very skilled and experienced officer. The relief will be very welcome. But even there questions need to be asked. For instance, what will be the duties of the medical officer in relation to posts other than Nicosia? Will he be based full time in Nicosia? If so, what does the Minister have in mind for our other under-staffed posts at places such as Cairo and Athens? Will they be getting the support of that medical officer? If not, will they still be expected to battle through as best they can and continue to go through the long arduous processes to which I have referred? The Lebanese people need an answer to those and other questions, and so does the Parliament. 
I want to pass now to the central point in my case against the Government. It is not merely unfortunate but tragic that the Government's policies to date have largely assisted those who least need assistance. I am not suggesting for one moment that they should not be given consideration, but the Government's actions have bypassed those who need assistance most. I want to spend the rest of the time available to me in detailing how this situation had occurred. In the first instance, those who reached Nicosia first and had their visas processed with a minimum of fuss tended to be more wealthy. Those who arrived subsequently were still those with some money, for it costs money to cross to Nicosia by boat- f Stg 100 a trip. Many of those people had their savings eroded while waiting for their visas to come through. Furthermore it is a fact that, in general, Lebanese Moslems are poorer than Lebanese Christians. It has proved difficult, though not impossible, for Moslems to get to Nicosia because in order to reach a point of embarkation there are some hazardous routes to travel. 
Finally, the Cypriot authorities have now moved to tighten up the entry arrangements. People without funds are no longer being landed because the Cypriot authorities are understandably worried about becoming involved in another refugee operation before they have had an opportunity to clear up their own. To pass into Cyprus now one must be in possession of at least Stg 100 to get across on the boat and to have means of support. This is having the effect of splitting families and is solidifying a situation which denies access to Australian authorities by those without any financial clout. If that is the case, where do poor refugees go? That question is answered simply. A number of them would go through Damascus if they had the opportunity to do so. It is natural that they should do that because Damascus is the closest large centre of population outside Lebanon and it costs much less to walk or catch a bus to Damascus than it does to fly or sail into Cyprus. 
It has been estimated that as many as half a million Lebanese may be in Syria. What has Australia done to meet the plight of Lebanese refugees in Syria, which has by far the largest single pool of refugees and those most in need of international assistance? Let us look at the record of our efforts in Damascus. We sent one officer to Damascus, an unfortunate young man named Cameron, for whom I have nothing but boundless admiration.  Mr Cameron  was established in the foyer of the Netherlands Embassy. There he toiled around the clock, processing a tiny part of the large number of applications for entry into Australia, while outside the Embassy gates thousands of refugees fought and brawled amongst themselves in an attempt to gain entry. Finally, the Syrian authorities and the 
Netherlands Ambassador were forced to take a stand, and who could blame them? But the Australian Government can be blamed. Why was  Mr Cameron  not sent reinforcements before the situation got out of hand? Why were we not told the truth about the closure of the post? It is nonsense to say that the post was closed because the Lebanese-Syrian border was closed. It was not. The border was closed in the main only to Palestinians, and I know of at least one person who has moved effectively backwards and forwards across the border. I have evidence from him if my smiling friend at the back, the honourable member for Evans  (Mr Abel),  wants to read it. 
The closing of the Damascus post was a cruel and callous act and reflects no credit on the Minister. It should have been reinforced before the situation got to be more than the authorities could put up with. It was a monumental blunder, and we of the Opposition call on the Government to re-establish the post as a matter of extreme urgency. We on this side of the House have never had much faith in the Government's miserly obsession with cutbacks. When its penny pinching results in tragedy, the situation is intolerable. We notice that the Baghdad post is about to be opened. We call upon the Minister to stop big-noting himself at the expense of other people's suffering. We call upon him to examine his priorities. Is the establishment of a $500,000 mission in Baghdad any more important in his view than reactivating the vital Damascus post? No indication was given that the establishment of the Damascus post was temporary, and it is not known how many Lebanese fled to Syria only to find the Australian post gone. What we do know is that only those relatively well off got to the Australian posts in Nicosia, Cairo and so on. The closing of the Damascus post virtually put an end to the entry to Australia on compassionate grounds. Not only has the Government reduced the scope of compassion as a ground for entry, but true compassionate cases are no longer likely to reach an Australian post. The question must be asked whether the Government has deliberately contrived the situation. 
This sorry record could have been averted if the proper administrative arrangements had been made at the appropriate times and if the Minister had not raised Lebanese hopes unduly earlier in the year with his confident assertions about the families and relatives of Australianresident Lebanese. In true Anglo-Saxon xenophobic blindness, the Minister overlooked, with tragic consequences to those involved, the vastly different concept of family which we have in 
Australia to that which prevails in the Lebanon where the term 'family' frequently applies to the extended family rather than the immediate family circle which we take it to mean in Australia. 
I have said some harsh things about the Minister today but in essence I believe him to be a man of good will. I ask him not to play fancy parliamentary games as he did in his speech on the Appropriation Bill when he chose to answer criticisms made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  with an irrelevant diatribe about Vietnam. The case I have put today is based on observations made at first hand. 1 want answers to the specific questions I have raised. In conclusion, I reiterate that the Damascus post must be re-opened. Are we to continue to have the Treasury dictating the foreign- policy and immigration policy of this country? I ask the Minister to examine carefully other aspects of this refugee policy. He must close the communications gap between himself and his task force. He must reconsider the task force's December deadline. Finally, he should begin to think about how this type of regional refugee problem should be faced in the future because his ad hoc crisis reaction approach to this problem has resulted in disaster. 
I shall address myself to one aspect of the estimates for the Postal and Telecommunications Department and that is ethnic radio. A large number of people in Australia are understandably worried about the future of ethnic radio which was one of the Labor Government's most popular and welcome initiatives. Unfortunately, the present Government's record in relation to ethnic radio is one of procrastination and double-talk and reflects no credit on the Government at all. It is hard to know whether the Government is being deliberately deceitful over this important matter or whether it is unbelievably incompetent. It has long proclaimed a commitment to ethnic radio. In the House on 23 March the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  stated: 
The experiment has been extremely successful. 
One need not go to Eton to work that out. The Minister continued: 
If one looks at the sizes of the audience of various radio stations, whether conducted by the Australian Broadcasting Commission or by commercial companies, one must appreciate that both the ABC and the commercial operators are envious of the audiences commanded by the ethnic radio stations. There is a potential audience of over 400 000 people in both Melbourne and Sydney. A high proportion of those people listen to ethnic radio. I commend the initiative; the experiment has been a success. 
He went on to say that there was no question of whether ethnic radio would be placed on a permanent basis. The question was merely one of the form it should take. They were very fine words. But as a wise old man once said: 'Actions speak louder than words', and in this case the gap between the rhetoric and the practice could hardly be wider. Ethnic radio has been totally neglected by the Government. In the Budget, funding for ethnic radio was provided only until the end of September 1976. We find on page 95 of  Hansard  for 1 7 August the following words: 
By that time it is intended that plans will be announced for longer term ethnic broadcasting. 
No one was very happy with that suggestion because no one likes to have this sort of uncertainty hanging over him. The Government had already shown on a number of occasions that when it defers matters under a smokescreen of fine protestations of goodwill, it is usually seeking a way to shelve those projects on the quiet so as to attract a minimum of hostile reaction from people it has hoodwinked. We feared the worst and, as I said at the time, if the Government meant to put an end to ethnic radio it should at least have the guts to say no. Nothing that has happened since that day has given me cause to retract that challenge. We waited for the promised long term plans and when they came, what did they amount to? There was the incorporation of ethnic radio into the Australian Broadcasting Commission, an organisation already reeling under the indiscriminate savagery of this mean-minded penny-pinching Treasurer, the individual who determines not only the policy of the Department of Foreign Affairs but also the policy of the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. Now it is time for him to determine the policies of the Department of the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson).  I would never have thought so. It is a shame. 
The various ethnic communities, and also we in the Labor Party, were understandably critical of this arrangement. It left many questions unanswered. It left the future of access station 3ZZ undetermined. It gave no indication whether ethnic communities would still have access to ethnic radio, nor was it immediately clear how ethnic radio was to be financed. Was it to be financed from the ABC's already pitifully small budgetary allocation or would an additional appropriation be made for ethnic radio? It was only after sustained questioning in this House that we obtained an assurance from the Minister for Post and Telecommunications who is, incidentally, looking very sheepish at the moment, to the effect that additional funds would be made available for this year and that thereafter ethnic radio funds would be included as part of the allocation for the ABC. Again we waited. We waited up to and beyond the date when the budgetary appropriations were due to run out. Still nothing happened and now, finally, we are told that nothing will be done until December. I would hate to be holding my breath until the Government made a decision. No wonder the ethnic people are angry. No wonder those involved have been frustrated to the point of taking industrial action. 
The Government has been guilty of either duplicity or immense incompetence. One of these 2 explanations has to be right because no other could be right. If it is duplicity, the Ministers involved deserve the scorn of all fair-minded Australians. To string so many people along with false promises which the Government had no intention of keeping is shameful and cowardly in the extreme. If its sin is incompetence, the- Ministers concerned have a catalogue of bungles for which to answer. Firstly, the Government has shown a total disregard for the feelings of ethnic communities. The Government's delay in reaching a decision on the future of ethnic radio and its subsequent refusal to find funds for ethnic radio within the framework of the ABC for the next 12 months has caused confusion and concern among the migrant communities. With no assurance of funds in the long term, ethnic broadcasters have been hampered in the planning and preparation of programs. Secondly, the Government has displayed contempt for the opinions of ethnic peoples. There can be little public confidence in recommendations arising from a secret- they are all secret and I am wondering what they have to hide- inquiry. It was another inquiry held in a vague air of secrecy. The inquiry should have been conducted by a board including representatives of ethnic communities and professional broadcasters. Why could the Government not have done that? The only reason is that it had something to hide. 
It may be, as the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs maintained in this House on 16 September, that some 250 submissions from individuals and ethnic groups were received, but the Minister completely begged the question when he went on to state that these submissions with very few exceptions recommended that ethnic radio be funded by the Government. A terrible thing! Of course they did, but not as part of the ABC. What the ethnic communities wanted was a statutory ethnic broadcasting corporation. It is to the credit of the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs and he also advocated this alternative. However, it is to the Government's complete discredit that it allowed the important issue of ethnic radio to become the football in a power play between that Minister and the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Now some mischievous Government backbenchers have sought to misrepresent arguments of this sort as an attack on the ABC. They are not, as those honourable members well know. 
The ethnic communities were legitimately worried about what sort of access they would have to ethnic radio once it became part of the ABC. They were worried about the degree of political interference which would occur in the ABC under the control of the Government's newly hand-picked censor. And well they might be worried. The Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs on 16 September guaranteed that ethnic communities would be given access to the programming and direction the programs should take. I say to the Minister: Do not patronise the ethnic people. They want details of the administrative arrangements which will facilitate access and guarantee freedom from political interference, not bland unsubstantiated assurances. This is normal. If one wants any reference to what might well be the acceptance of the communities, one only has to refer to my Press release on this matter. The Government must reverse its shoddy procrastination on ethnic radio. The delays have gone on long enough. If the Ministers concerned cannot put up they should resign and let someone do the job properly. The ethnic people have been insulted and put off long enough. It is time the Government realised this and took the necessary steps to provide ethnic radio with the funds and administrative machinery which it needs to function properly. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) What are the present intentions of the Government for the resettlement of Cocos and Christmas Islanders on the mainland of Australia. 
What are the requirements for the entry of nonAustralians. 
How many (a) Australians and (b) non-Australians have (i) applied for and (ii) been granted entry during each of the last 5 years. 
What facilities are available on each of the islands to assist and advise on resettlement. 
What facilities are available within Australia to ensure that resettlement is smooth. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. Can the Minister explain to the House why equipment purchased under the Regional Employment Development scheme by the Fitzroy City Council in Melbourne is now being reclaimed by the department? What conditions, if any, were placed on the original allocation of money to the Fitzroy City Council under the RED scheme? What were the normal conditions and procedures laid down with respect to the purchase of capital equipment under the RED scheme grants? Is the Minister aware that 5 beneficiaries of the RED scheme who were subsequently taken on to the permanent staff of the Fitzroy Library will almost certainly be retrenched if the equipment is reclaimed? 
I rise today to discuss the matter of the Fairbridge scheme for migrant children. I should like to commence by providing the House with some background details of the scheme, for it is not only significant in its own right but stands as a monument to one man's compassion and vision.  Mr Kingsley  Fairbridge was a South African born scholar and aristocrat who was distressed at what he saw to be the plight of the children in the overcrowded cities of England at the close of the 19th Century. Noting this picture of squalor and starvation, he determined to do something about it and formed the Child Emigration Society at the turn of the century and eventually realised his dream in the form of Fairbridge House, a large old mansion in Western Australia which became the home for thousands of underprivileged English children who learned in the precincts of its spacious grounds the basics of farming and domestic work before taking their place in an Australian society which offered them much greater opportunity than would ever have been possible in their native England. 

 Mr Fairbridge did not long survive the realisation of his dream, for at the age of 39 this poet, scholar and great benefactor died. When I consider the depths of compassion and unselfishness of which this man was capable I appreciate more than ever the superiority of the co-operative values which inspire the Australian Labor Party over the morally barren individualism which is preached from the other side of the House.  Mr Fairbridge  is long dead but his dream lives on. Nowadays the children of Fairbridge are not necessarily from under-privileged homes. Today they attend schools like any other children and learn a much wider variety of skills than in the days when the emphasis was exclusively on farming and domestics. But Fairbridge still caters for a category of migrants who face handicaps which most migrants do not normally have to worry about. 
Fairbridge is now a temporary haven for oneparent families where that parent is unable to cater for either boy or girl. Moreover, where a family with more than 4 children migrates to Australia the additional children can be accommodated at Fairbridge. 
In this respect Fairbridge plays a vital and extremely important role, because Commonwealth Hostels will not accept more than 4 children from one family. I wish to protest about this situation. It is a scandalous state of affairs. Why should there be such discrimination against large families? Why cannot Commonwealth Hostels accommodate families with more than 4 children? 
The first few days in a new country are invariably traumatic and full of subtle fears for migrants. Will they like the country? That is the big question. Will they be able to make a go of it? Customs will be strange and confusing. In these circumstances the migrant's greatest comfort and support is his family. It is an intolerable situation when families are divided in this way. How inhuman it is to separate families at this time, when above all else, migrants need the  comfort and security of their family. Children need the proximity of their parents at this time, and no less, parents need their children. If there is a good reason why Commonwealth Hostels will not accept more than 4 children from one family, we in this House should know it. It is up to the people who take this responsibility to inform the House why it is done. Furthermore, even if the reason for this policy stands up to scrutiny, it is my hope that all members of this House who have the welfare of migrants at heart will demand that the state of affairs which necessitates this callous policy be rectified forthwith. 
Finally, there is one other aspect of this matter which gives cause for unease. F airbridge is open to the children of English migrants only. Yet in many ways English migrants face fewer problems than do people from other lands, and are better equipped to face the problems they do face, because they do not suffer the same language barriers nor the same cultural dislocations as confront non-English speaking migrants. Fairbridge is of extreme importance for English families with more than 4 children. What happens to non-English families with more than 4 children who require Commonwealth hostel accommodation? I think it is a very good question that needs to be answered. The Fairbridge institution is a private one, and it is not for us to urge it to change its policy on this matter. But there is obviously a need for the Commonwealth Government to act to minimise the distress which current Commonwealth hostels policy must cause non-English speaking migrants. 
I will not take up the time of the House any further. In conclusion I would like to say that Australia owes a debt to  Mr Kingsley  Fairbridge and his expansive vision. It would be tragic if the Commonwealth Government was not willing to build on his example and achievement by removing this inhuman and anomalous practice of limiting Commonwealth hostel accommodation to only 4 children from one family. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister  Ibr  Education concerning an important matter in which you,  Mr Speaker,  have taken a keen and continuing interest, to your credit. In view of the fact that some little time has elapsed since the tabling of the report and in view of the anxiety of parents and organisations such as SPELD, I ask: When can the House expect a statement by the Minister in relation to the position and commitment of the Australian Government to the recommendations contained in the report of the Senate Select Committee on Specific Learning Difficulties? The Minister will be aware that the report stresses clearly the paramount importance of early identification and remedy of difficulties. Since many pre-school children who have learning difficulties, such as the linguistically and economically disadvantaged, do not attend any educationally oriented institutions where such difficulties may be remedied, how and when does the Government intend to provide services in order that such children with difficulties will not be disadvantaged for the rest of their lives? 
-I say at the outset that I oppose the amendment. I would like to talk in general terms about the unprincipled way in which supporters of the Government have entered into this debate and the duplicity with which they stand up here, each and every one of them, and put up a proposition that varies so dramatically from that of their friend, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  whose only comment as the then Leader of the Opposition during the time that a proposal on this subject by the Labor Government went through the Parliament was that we were going to considerable lengths to democratise the control of industrial organisations. There was literally no opposition. So there is some reason for questioning the change. I believe this amendment to be as shameless a piece of immoral, political cynicism as it has ever been my misfortune to witness, either here or anywhere else, from the group of unprincipled twisters who form the Government. 
-I withdraw it,  Mr Chairman.  The Government is becoming justly notorious for carrying chicanery and double-dealing to lengths which no tory government ever managed to reach in the past. The amendment sets out to legalise the collegiate system of voting for union elections and to force unions to tidy up within a 2-year period their rules for voting in union elections. Such a step is deemed necessary because this Government is hastening to stamp out those evil grandma rapists and baby eaters whose warped, devious minds are responsible for all the problems which beset this country and who probably also caused it to rain on Melbourne Cup day. The Government has a mad, intense desire to wipe out its political opponents. Like the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  it sees communists under its bed. But at the same time it has inadvertently wiped out the little electoral racket that its National Civic Council friends had going for them in the 
Federated Clerks Union and other organisations. That was perpetrated by members of the Democratic Labor Party, a former member of which now sits on the Government benches. The fact that he assisted in the organisation has been evidenced by words from his own mouth. What a flap that caused. The so-called secret ballot amendments passed by this Parliament were not intended by the Government benches actually to provide union democracy. That is what the Government told us was its purpose. But, of course, that was not the case. The purpose of those amendments was simply to weed out all those devils who were masquerading as humans in the left wing unions. It was not intended to violate the neat little nests which the NCC had feathered over the years. 
Let us look at the situation regarding the regulation of union elections, which is a subject about which the preponderance of the honourable members opposite who have spoken know nothing. Let us put to rest once and for all the silly myths and deliberate deceptions that are so glibly mouthed by the rabid political simpletons on the other side of the chamber. The Government has shown a total misunderstanding of the nature of industrial relations and the workings of the trade union movement in this country. Perhaps it has done so deliberately. Its whole approach to union elections reflects its simplemindedness. The secret ballot has existed in almost all major unions since the 1940s. Even before the earlier amendment all unions that registered with the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission were subject to secret ballots which were overseen by the Commonwealth Electoral Office. On top of this, union members who objected to the way in which any election was conducted could appeal to the Electoral Office and, if they had a case, be granted a court-controlled ballot. That was a democratic process. 
Having acknowledged a system that may improve the situation the Government has done an about face and introduced a system of collegiate elections that is far worse than the position at the start. The Government is going to introduce a system whereby, as the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Burr)  has indicated, the office holders who will sit under the collegiate system and who were only elected in the first place will be able to perpetrate their position time and again with a 1 5 per cent start under the collegiate system. The protection in Australia against the rigging of union elections was amongst the tightest in the world. Anybody who knows anything at all about the subject would know that that is precisely so. It has been so for something like 30 years. So what was the purpose of tampering with union elections? 
The new legislation has no relevance in the area of secrecy. The only aspect of union elections that it has affected is that of direct democracy. Under the former Minister for Labor,  Mr Clyde  Cameron, new regulations were introduced for the direct election of union officials, such as the  president,  vice-president and secretary, by the rank and file membership of the union. Those regulations came into effect in November 1 97S. I was associated with one of the largest trade unions in this country. It had a collegiate system of voting. It went through the processes and altered its rules for the purpose of conforming to the new rules. It found no difficulty in doing so. I challenge honourable members opposite to point the finger at the Electrical Trades Union of Australia and say where it has ever contravened what it was required to do. If it is good enough for the Electrical Trades Union it is good enough for any other organisation. That is as democratic a process as one will see. 
-It would be boring to you because you are that thick in the head that you could not give yourself a headache. Some unions objected to the Cameron regulations. They were the unions that elected their top office bearers by the collegiate system. Under this system the union rank and file did not get a direct vote for the office of  president  of secretary, but that was tidied up by the previous decisions. History shows that the collegiate system often allows one faction to gain complete control of a union. If one faction gains a majority on the union executive it usually elects all the office bearers. In a system of direct democracy, the various groups within the union will usually have more representation amongst the office bearers. The dominant faction will still win the presidency, but a minority faction may well win the vice-presidency. The positions of secretary and assistant secretary may be distributed similarly. 
It is significant that at the time the Cameron direct ballot proposals were brought in no one on the conservative benches raised one whimper of objection to the threat which that legislation posed to the collegiate voting system. Not one of the self-appointed arbiters of internal union matters spoke out about them. Honourable members opposite are so inclined to talk about unions, but not one of them has ever been a member of a union. Honourable members opposite tell the trade union movement what to do, but what do they say about the employer organisations? These organisations can do exactly what they like. 
-What a load of rubbish! The Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs says that they cannot. If the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Macphee)  were dead honest he would stand up and say that that is a load of rubbish. It is prevarication of the worst type even to suggest that they cannot. What happened in May when the Government suddenly realised that the carefully drawn Bill of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  was likely to upset its shadowy, secretive but invaluable ally the National Civic Council? One of those who objected the loudest was the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)-  the babyfaced member from Tasmania. On 1 June, in his speech on the earlier Conciliation and Arbitration Bill, that member, who has a foolish smile and a prattling tongue, threw up a number of defences of the collegiate system. 
-I withdraw that,  Mr Chairman.  But I am not here to teach the baby-faced member from Denison how to graduate from his political napkin. 
-I withdraw that, too,  Mr Chairman.  It was no surprise to me to see the honourable member for Denison so much to the fore last May in demanding legislation for the system of collegiate voting. We all know that the Liberal Party in Tasmania is currently the target of an NCC takeover. The whole of Australia has failed to pervert the Australian Labor Party to this insidious, insane sectarianism as perpetrated by B. A. Santamaria. This man recently claimed in a student newspaper to be a true liberal and not a conservative like his colleagues. This individual who has infiltrated other parties is now right in the middle of the Government parties. Be warned, he is a very dangerous enemy. If this is an indication of his acceptance it is also indicative of the amendment which has been moved. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. Will the evidence received by the National Population Inquiry headed by Professor Borrie be published? As the first report of the National Population Inquiry mentioned in a footnote on page 710 that the report on the economic study was nearing completion, can the Minister tell the House the current progress of the cost-benefit analysis and when the results will be published? 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Education. He will be aware that the House of Representatives Select Committee on Specific Learning Difficulties in its report which was tabled on 14 October discussed the Macquarie University's special education centre at some length and, on page 51, made this point: 
The location of the Centre in a teacher training institution enables the resources to be available to assist both preservice and in-service training of teachers. This would appear to the Committee an economic use of resources. 
I ask the Minister Does the present Government intend to develop similar institutions across Australia so that improvements in teacher education can take place in the area of learning difficulties? If the Minister is incapable of answering the question I hope I get an answer a little more promptly than I did to the previous question which I asked. 
-I rise to support the amendment. Particularly I would like to deal with the area of specific learning difficulties and to draw the attention of the House to the problems of the children disadvantaged by these difficulties. I hoped to have had an opportunity to debate these matters earlier in the House in connection with the report of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Specific Learning Difficulties. This most important report was tabled on Thursday, 14 October 1 976, which is almost a month ago. Still the Government has not seen fit to provide the House with an opportunity to debate the report Why the Government should be so reluctant to allow debate on this is not known to me. I urge the Government, however, to bring on the matter as early as possible before the end of the session as a number of unknowns urgently require elucidation. We need to know, for instance, whether it is the intention of the Australian Government to establish a list of priorities in relation to the recommendations and, if so, when such priorities will be implemented. At a more general level we need to know the Government's position and the nature of its commitment to the recommendations in this report. 
Allow me to mention just one or two examples of the sort of thing I have in mind. Firstly, teacher education in Australian tertiary institutions needs to include training in the methods of procedures available to reduce learning difficulties. Such training should be given to all trainees and qualified teachers by both pre and in-service training. The Select Committee's report makes several critical recommendations about these aspects of teacher education. We need to know whether the Australian Government is prepared to endorse and implement such change through the various tertiary education commissions and, if so, when will it occur. These are important matters and- members on both sides of the House, I am sure, will want to know the answers to these questions before another month has passed. Secondly, many pre-school children who have learning difficulties do not go to pre-schools or any other educationally orientated place at which such difficulties may be remedied. This includes such categories as linguistically disadvantaged migrant children, in whose welfare I have a particular concern, the economically disadvantaged and so on. The report clearly states that if learning difficulties are not identified and remedied early, overtime such difficulties become harder to remedy. 
I asked about the Government's intention in this area in a question without notice on 3 November. I am still patiently waiting for a response. We need to know how and when the Government intends to provide services in order that such children with difficulties will not be disadvantaged for the rest of their lives. Delay is inexcusable. For every month that passes more and more children reach that point of no return where it becomes too late to take such remedial action. Those children are condemned to a life with little prospect. The Australian Council for Educational Research found that 29 per cent of Australia's 10-year-olds and 27 per cent of 14- year-olds cannot understand written material of greater complexity than their classroom textbooks. Some 20 per cent of 14-year-olds cannot comprehend the meaning of passages taken from daily newspapers. Some 26 per cent cannot write a letter applying for a job. There are twice as many students in need of remedial help in reading or arithmetic as there are places. These figures are beyond dispute. They are not the findings of an educationist with his own barrow to push but the findings of research undertaken under the auspices of the Education Research and Development Committee of the Australian 
Government. They clearly show that a quarter of our children pass from primary to secondary school and on to the job market without ever acquiring the basic educational skills needed to take their place as functional members of the work force and citizen body. 
This country has a long history of assistance for those struggling to compete successfully in other market situations, but the labour market is the most cut-throat of all markets. There are no subsidies or superphosphate bounties there. So the situation is critical. It is interesting and a little saddening to see that response to this situation includes 2 sorts of reaction which are not helpful in the least. One fairly typical response is to try to minimise the problems of basic educational skills. What has been done to meet the crisis of literacy by pointing out that in some comparable countries such as New Zealand or the United Kingdom things are even worse. I would like to know how that helps the situation in Australia. Of course it does not. There has to be an end to the shoddy rationalisation and unceasing defence of the indefensible. Normal children should be able to read by the time they are seven. Teaching a child to read is the most fundamental responsibility which is owed to him by his school and the education system generally. 
-If he had one like you he would never learn. The rebirth of literacy should be adopted by governments forthwith as a major national priority. The second misleading response, and one which members might think I am about to embrace myself, is the return to the golden age syndrome which has become a great rallying cry for conservatives in this country. Modern educational techniques, it is held, have destroyed standards of literacy and we need to . return to a concentration on the sit up and shut up, strap across the buttocks, rote learning of the 3 Rs system of education. Such stone age authoritarianism certainly fails every educational test except, just possibly, that of literacy. It teaches mindless obedience rather than the truly educational value of inquiry and questioning. It teaches fear of blank servility towards authority rather than the democractic value of civic interest and participation. 
I am not saying for one moment that I condone some of the programs that are outlined. Plenty of evidence suggests that there ought to be establishment of a proper and efficient program. If there is a necessity to return to some basic notion of education to achieve that, it ought to be done. I simply raise the question. The problem is here with us. In the far distant future children from my electorate of Melbourne will still be lamenting if the Minister does come to grips with the problem and lets the recommendation of the Committee go unheeded or shelved for the purpose of procrastination. The Government has become certainly not in the true sense of the word objective in its approach, nor has it been challenged on many occasions for shelving reports and not letting them become public. This one is public. It has been tabled. It contains recommendations. What we are calling on the Government to do is to give effect to those recommendations. The Committee was unanimous in its attitude on the issues to which I made reference. There was no argument, there was consensus, about the fundamental principles which I have outlined. 
The reason why I said that these approaches just possibly do aid literacy is that there is no firm evidence to suggest that it does. No one has been able satisfactorily to prove that there was ever a golden age in Australian education when standards of literacy were more satisfactory than they are at present; nor is it likely that we will ever have evidence to suggest that those in the generation of our grandfathers were better readers than those in our children's generation. What is needed is action, not a lot of words. What we can say with certainty- and this can be confirmed by the House of Representatives Select Committee of Specific Learning Difficultiesis that an enormous number of today's children who clearly have the capacity to read are missing out on the learning process. In this context, whether there has been an actual decline in reading standards is supremely unimportant. What matters is the decline which has occurred in literacy and the aspiration held by our community for all its children. 
We have to establish a re-birth of literacy as a major national priority. In this sense we need to reject efforts to divert discussion away from our present problems and practical ways of overcoming them in favour of an historical debate of a sterile and most inconclusive kind. It is time to tackle the real problems. It is time for a major shift in educational resources to enable the problems of literacy to be tackled head on. To do otherwise is to sell out our children on the basic freedoms of access to information, vocational choice and even political choice which literacy alone can confer. The experience of those who served on the Committee- and I am sure this will be supported by those who have experience in the field- would suggest that recommendations from the Committee's report should be adopted to deal with factors which are external to the classroom and lead to a failure to achieve. Any review of the adequacy of current measures is unsatisfactory if it fails to consider the importance of broader environmental factors. 
It is readily obvious that the high proportion of Aboriginal and migrant children- particularly Aboriginal children in the Northern Territory, as was indicated by the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)-  who suffer from learning difficulties is seriously contributed to by general rather than specific problems. This fact has been firmly established in a number of reputable investigations apart from that carried out by the Select Committee on Specific Learning Difficulties on which the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde)  and I served. There have been a number of other investigations such as that by the Senate Select Committee on Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders and the migrant task force report. It was mentioned also in the submission by a  Mr Bell  who had practical experience as a school teacher in the Alice Springs area. It was he who submitted in evidence to the Select Committee on Specific Learning Difficulties that the influence on educational under-achievement of other factors such as cultural and linguistic difficulties, basic housing and health problems in a domestic environment, the pattern of alcohol consumption and problems of frequent family movement should be recognised. The importance of these factors in Aboriginal learning disabilities is well documented. 
There is a whole range of investigations taking place in all areas where migrant children go to school. It is true that there is a dire need for bilingual teachers in these areas. There is a screaming need for community relations officers who are bilingual. In this respect what has been the achievement of the present Government in the schools mentioned by the honourable member for Calare  (Mr MacKenzie)?  There is a dearth of teachers in those schools and, if additional teachers are not forthcoming, these schools will not be able to carry on the programs in the Northern Territory for which this screaming need exists. At the Stuart Park Primary School in Darwin there are 2 bilingual- Greekspeakingcommunity relations officers who are fundamental to the children in that area achieving to the maximum. But what happened? Due to the many Budget cuts and the pressures applied in the area, the services of these 2 individuals were dispensed with. This action was to the detriment of the capacity and entitlement of the children in that area to be on equal ground with other children. It was only after a scream from the community that they were put back in the service for a limited period. 
In Melbourne, where there is another screaming need for community relations officers, there are blocks of flats in which children are living in shocking circumstances. In one block of flats in Collingwood, 80 per cent of the inhabitants are either unmarried or single mothers or deserted wives- women who are on their own trying to bring up their children. If one goes into the schools seeking to discover what is missing in the link between the education situation and the home environment one need only speak to community relations officers. The honourable member for Moore can smirk for as long as he likes but why does he not indicate whether what I am saying is correct and whether he will support me in a demand that the recommendations in the report be implemented as soon as possible? We should not put up with the procrastination that we have tolerated in the immediate past. I have asked questions on this issue of the report and still have not received an answer. This morning I asked a further question without notice on the same issue and I hope that it gets better treatment. 
We appreciate the problem of resources and are not opposing the Bill in general. If we are to go along with this elitist concept, ignore what is in our mind 's eye and in our hearts, and turn our attention to the silk department or the tertiary education area, we will be turning our back on those who need greater help. It might well be that what is needed is a redistribution of resources for some period at least to catch up with and endeavour to relieve the plight of those in the underprivileged areas of our society- the Aboriginal children and the migrant children in particular. We encourage migrants to come out here and immediately set for them standards which are inferior in many respects to the standards we set for the community generally. We find migrant children in schools trying to cope with 2 languages- their native tongue and English. They are losing their mother tongue and cannot find a text book which adequately covers their requirements in their struggle to equip themselves to look after themselves and thenfamilies in the future. 
I have endeavoured to stay some distance away from the specific provisions of the report of the Select Committee on Specific Learning Difficulties. The honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde)  should think again if he believes that these are the only areas with which I intend to deal in the debate on the report. I believe that the specific matters raised by the Select Committee on Specific Learning Difficulties ought to be dealt with as a matter of urgency. A whole range of issues is screaming out for attention. If we are not prepared to do something about a redistribution of resources between now and the time when children from the primary schools are moving into the secondary school area, we will commit a number of these children into the wilderness in which other children find themselves. If we allow this to happen, it will be a disgrace to our society. 
I am not talking about whether the previous Government was right, how much money it spent on education or whether the present Government will do something better in this area in the future. We have to come to grips with the fact that the problem exists now. I nope that the opportunity to debate the matters contained in the report of the Select Committee on Specific Learning Difficulties will be provided in the very near future. Today I have merely attempted to bring the current crisis concerning literacy to the attention of the House. I hope the lesson will not be lost on honourable members opposite and that the Government will accordingly bring on a debate on the report of the Select Committee at the earliest opportunity. 
I rise to indicate that the Opposition will not oppose the Christmas Island Agreement Bill. However, there is a number of matters upon which our views ought to be taken into account by the Government at the time that this issue is finalised by adoption of the Agreement. The purpose of this Bill is to ratify an undertaking made jointly by the Governments of Australia and New Zealand to amend the 1958 Christmas Island Agreement in such a way as to enable Asian residents of long standing on Christmas Island to resettle in Australia. The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  stated in his second reading speech that it is a matter of simple justice that the Commonwealth Government has obligations to those who have given long and valuable service in the working of the phosphate deposits of the Island. Apart from one misgiving which I will outline later, the Opposition completely supports these sentiments. It agrees with the Government that justice demands no other response. 
The major regret of honourable members on this side of the House is that the Minister could not resist the temptation to mar the bipartnership of the occasion with a little sly politicking. He accused the Labor Government of going back on its promise to introduce the resettlement scheme announced in April 1973 by  Mr Morrison,  the then Minister for External Territories. The Minister knows that this is a totally baseless charge. He knows that the regrettable time lapse in the implementation of this scheme was not the fault of the Labor Government. He knows that the scheme could not be implemented unilaterally because it had to be negotiated between the Government of Australia and the Government of New Zealand. He knows that negotiation of this agreement was plagued by political difficulties. Australia faced double dissolutions in 1974 and 1975. The second double dissolution occurred in politically troubled times when the country's legitimate Government was summarily thrown from office. Of course, today is the anniversary of that occasion of which we should never be proud. In New Zealand, an election was held in 1 975. So it was difficult for the 2 Governments to arrange a mutually convenient time. Throughout much of this period, one or other of the Governments was either at the polls or soon to go to the polls. I was elected to this Parliament 3 times in 3 years. It seems to me that that is a waste of much time and energy. 
It seems to me that that is a waste of much time and energy. It holds up issues such as this. We will live to regret that occurrence. The Minister at the table says: 'Hear, hear'. If he can condone such actions and be party to them, he will live to regret them because he will bring upon himself the wrath of the Australian people either now or sometime in the future. Perhaps honourable members opposite might begin to see from this problem the sort of effect that the carelessly wrought mischief in those years had on the conduct of government. Their actions were irresponsible in the extreme. I hope that I never have to witness the like of them again. In any case, despite the existence of overwhelming political distractions during this period, the Whitlam Government managed to open negotiations with its New Zealand counterpart. Some honourable members opposite who are trying to interject would never understand this. If they can spare a little time afterwards, I will explain it to them in some convenient spot. 
No, I never go to the place. As I say, the Whitlam Government managed to open the negotiations with its New Zealand counterpart. Under the circumstances, rather remarkable progress was made. In fact, officers of the Department of the Special Minister of State were on the verge of reaching important agreements when the Whitlam Government was overthrown. This being the case, one only wonders why it has taken so long for the 2 new Governments to complete the task and get the agreement signed. Had government in Australia not changed hands, it is a safe bet that the resettlement scheme would have been under way months ago. But the procrastination of the Government is indicative of its methods. Once again, honourable members opposite, including the Minister at the table, must answer for the actions of the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers)  in another place. Honourable members opposite are the ones responsible for this delay. The Government's aspersions are without foundation. I am surprised and disappointed that the Minister at the table should have taken advantage of this occasion to make them. It was a churlish action and one unworthy of the Minister. However, it is not my wish to dwell on this fact. I have no doubt that the people of Christmas Island recognise the immense difficulties under which the Whitlam Government toiled and will not be fooled by the misleading utterances of the Minister or the lightweight champions of the back bench who prattle along and are unrecognised by their 'God' who sits at the table during question time. 
As I said earlier, I have one misgiving about this legislation. I have said that the Opposition welcomes this Bill as providing simple justice for the Asian community on Christmas Island. This community, as honourable members well know or some of them know- some of the back benchers on the Government side would not know but they may learn about it if they listen intently- has been subjected to some quite shameful discriminatory practices in the past. The most well known- perhaps I should say notorious- was the existence of differential rates of pay by which the Asian workers were paid about one-fifth of the wage of their European counterparts. My support for this Bill and the principle of justice which it enbodies is based on the understanding that this is what those concerned want. It is assumed that most Christmas Islanders wish to resettle in Australia. There are no indigenous Christmas Islanders. Christmas Island's economic lifespan is limited. For those reasons, they have taken that position. 
The Minister told us in his second reading speech that, given existing technology and current rates of extraction, the phosphate is good for another 20 years. Therefore, the Island will provide a limited living for those people. However, it is an important period of their life and it is important to see what flows from here on in. There is still a responsibility for the implementation of the agrement. What exists now in respect of industrial legislation is part of our responsibility. I put it to the Minister that that is one serious consideration we ought to be taking into account. 
On 20 October,  Senator Georges,  in another place, cast some doubts on these assumptions.  His  experience of Christmas Island was of a well established community which in no sense saw itself as impermanent. If this is the case, 3 questions require answers. Firstly, has the Government taken steps to establish whether the Christmas Islanders wish to maintain their community after phosphate extraction has finished? That is a good question. If so, has it undertaken to find out what other economic measures, if any, might be set in train to provide Christmas Island with a viable economy beyond the lifespan of the existing phosphate extraction? 
The honourable member would know all about it! The honourable member would not be consulted even upon the time of the day, let alone upon matters such as this. Secondly, - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! Bearing in mind the title of this Bill- the Christmas Island Agreement Bill- I do not think that this would be an appropriate debate for me to take action against any members - 
For interjecting? 
-I ask the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs: Is it true that the extended criteria for entry into Australia by relatives of residents of this country will cease to apply at the end of 1976 and that any applications not completely processed at that date will be considered only on the basis of the previous restricted criteria? If this is the case, will the Minister assure the House that, because of the apprehension that migrants in Australia feel for the safety of their relatives in some areas and the humanitarian aspects of family reunions, the extended criteria will continue to operate in the future? 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to raise a question that is motivating the minds of people who are responsible for the wellbeing of ethnic communities and who take strong exception to the type of journalism that creates dissension, cleavage and division not only between ethnic communities themselves but also the ethnic communities and the people born of Anglo-Saxon parentage in this country. I wish to refer to the depths of degradation to which individuals will go to pervert their own people's standing or occupation. It is difficult to contemplate how this occurs. For instance, the headline appeared recently: 'Greek Woman Raped'. It does not matter a damn whether the woman is Greek, Italian or Australian. The fact is that a woman was raped and - 
That is the mentality of this imbecile who does nothing else but interject on issues, when he ought to be giving very serious consideration to - 
-But the mentality is that low that would hardly expect him to understand. 

 - Mr Speaker, I point to examples of that nature that appear day after day. There is no relevance in making reference to whence the individual comes. It is purely and simply a method of sensationalism in journalism. A number of people from ethnic communities have taken exception to it. 
I am just about to ask the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner),  who is at the table, for permission to incorporate in  Hansard  a letter from the Australian Greek Welfare Society in which very strong exception is taken to this kind of reporting. I ask leave to incorporate the letter in  Hansard. 

 The document read as follows- 

The letter raises the question of the type of journalism exhibited in the Press on 13 October 1976 and 20 October 1976 regarding the problem between the local Australian-Greek citizens and the Greek Orthodox Archdiocese. The type of journalism to which exception was taken appeared in the  Chadstone Progress  of 20 October 1976 and the  Standard Times  of 13 October 1976. The articles are headed: 'Greek Split over Church Application' and 'Greek Threat of Violence; Bitter Row over the Church; petition before the council'. We ought to be encouraging the ethnic community and doing what we as Australians can do to try to resolve the problems and difficulties within the ethnic community. It is not good enough for journalists to endeavour to throw the matter out into the open. This raises the question of the irresponsible journalism which we have come to expect. 
At the outset I would like to refer to 2 issues mentioned in the debate by the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock).  One point I mention for the record is that the Labor Government was in fact the Government which took the initiative to set up the commission to investigate matters related to the campaign for Aboriginal land rights. The honourable member for Parramatta clouded the issue during the course of his speech. That was not the only issue. He maligned  Mr Eames,  a person who has done more for the Aboriginal people in one minute than the honourable member for Parramatta has done in his whole life. 
I refer to an attack that was made on  Mr Eames  by Pastor Paul Albrecht and his missionary colleagues,  Mr Stoll  and  Mr Ziersch.  In a letter to the  Bulletin  dated 20 November 1976 and headed 'Land rights hangup'  Mr Eames  had this to say: 
Pastor Paul Albrecht and his missionary colleagues,  Mr Stoll  and  Mr Ziersch,  base their opposition to Aboriginal land rights ... on misconceptions and misreadings both of the legislation which has been proposed and the response to it by Aborigines. Their opposition is also motivated by a well disguised self-interest and political conservatism which has allowed them to confuse their political support for the Country Party with their responsibilities to Aborigines. 
-It was written by Geoff Eames. In another paragraph  Mr Eames  states: 
Pastor Albrecht 's views on 'the Aboriginal reality' should not be regarded as authoritative. A leading authority on Aboriginal traditional ownership of land,  Dr Nicholas  Peterson, has said of Albrecht 's proposals that 'while couched in anthropological terms (they) do not reflect the Aboriginal reality as understood from a wide range of research '. 
Despite the fact that there have now been more than a dozen detailed refutations of Albrecht 's opinions he has never responded to those criticisms. The powerful vested interest groups which also oppose land rights have, however, adopted Albrecht 's opinion with great enthusiasm and considerable relief. 
The other point concerning this Bill is that it should be based on the sentiments and opinions expressed by such people as David Anderson, the executive member for information and communications of the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee, Mildura.  Mr Anderson  suggests that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  should not arbitrate and decide on any matter as important as Aboriginal land rights and claims without thorough reference and consultation with Aboriginal leaders. The consultation could be achieved through a co-ordination body such as the National Aboriginal Claims Commission, formed as part of any compensation legislation.  Mr Anderson  suggested in a letter published in the  Bulletin  of 13 November that these discussions could take place on the following principles: 
The elimination on this continent of present political exploitation and social repression of any underprivileged minority. 
The continuance of positive and meaningful policies by the Minister to restore dignity and confidence to Aboriginal Australians. 
The minimum disruption of our community. 
Invoilable legislation setting aside our land and sacred rights in certain areas (regardless of whether such land is currently occupied by our people). 
In the event of land restitution proving mutually impracticable we seek equitable compensation. 
Any national acquisition of land from Aborigines must bring with it fair compensation. 
In circumstances where Aboriginal land is used to exploit natural resources the Aborigines receive continuing and realistic royalties, together with funding for housing, job and vocational training, employment, social development and cultural opportunities. 
Recompense and safeguards must be obtained by Aboriginal communities that are not necessarily relocated but who become likely subjects of social disruption caused by the presence of rnining or other commercial venture. 

 Mr Anderson also stated: 
The NACC, acting on behalf of all Aboriginal Australians, wishes to avoid emotionalism on these matters and treat them in a straight out business fashion. 
I think that  Mr Anderson's  comments reflect the sentiments with which every member of this House should direct the course of this Bill. My colleague, the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson),  earlier tonight made a most authoritative assessment of the history, principles and inadequacies of the Bills before us. He made a most compelling case and I commend his arguments to the House. For my part, I wish to concentrate on bringing one or two specific injustices in the Bill to the attention of the House. Before I do, I would like to say how sad I am to see the present Government departing so far from the principles and sound practice of the land rights Bill introduced by the Whitlam Government into this House in October 1 975. 
The most wide-ranging alterations to the Labor Government's Bui relate to the transfer of legislative power from the Commonwealth Parliament to the control of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. Unfortunately, this is becoming a rather tiresome recurring feature of this Government's legislation. It has become obsessed with the ideology of federalism. It has made a god of it. It treats federalism as an inflexible principle to be enshrined and acted upon at all times. Federalism should not be an end in itself but a means to a greater end, namely the maximisation of opportunities of democratic participation and accountability. We, on this side of the House, are less convinced that federalist arrangements are the best means of achieving that end. 
-I am sure that the honourable member would never know it. The notion of federalism, as outlined by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has the effect of turning back the clock. In the same way, this legislation will allow procrastination to reign supreme and allow the Government, supported by its yappers on the back bench, to pass the buck and dodge its responsibilities. However, if the Government is to present this facade, it should temper its federalism with a bit of flexibility and common sense. On a number of occasions the Government's anxiety to remain doctrinally true has had the very opposite effect to what it is supposed to do. Instead of maximising opportunities and participation, it has done the complete opposite. That will be the result from this Bill as well. By being a Pontius Pilate and casting off its responsibilities to the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly, it is in effect reducing the opportunities for Aboriginal peoples to effectively control their own destinies, as I will shortly demonstrate. 
What are these responsibilities which the Government has blithely handed over to the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly? There are principally five of them. The first is access to the sea adjoining Aboriginal land. Against the specific recommendations of the Woodward report, such access is now to be subject to territorial law. This will have a major effect on the fishing interests of Aboriginals, and will also affect their overall welfare if minerals are discovered within this limit. Some sacred sites also will be affected. The second is the control of entry to pastoral properties. The weaknesses of the existing ordinances were specifically referred to by  Mr Justice  Woodward, and the Labor Government's 1975 Bill attempted to remove these weaknesses. The present Minister has not indicated that this matter will be acted on by the Assembly, and judging by their performance in the past there is little chance of such action. 
Each of these matters deserves to be discussed at much greater length. However, owing to the constraints of time under which we work, I have decided to concentrate my discussion on the other 3 important areas of transference of power to the Legislative Assembly 3 areas which will almost certainly be the subject of complementary legislation at some time in the future. Honourable members will be aware that the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly wished to control all land rights legislation. It did not quite win that battle but it did pretty well notwithstanding. It is rather glib for the Minister to maintain, as he did in his second reading speech, that he has received assurances from the Leader of the Legislative Assembly that the Assembly is fully prepared to co-operate in the introduction of complementary legislation in the areas which accord with the spirit of the Bill. God knows what the amendments do. Nobody has even had a chance to examine them sufficiently enough to know exactly what they say. The Aborigines themselves place no store on such assurances. They know that  Dr Letts,  the majority leader in the NTLA sees a stepped-up mining program as necessary for the provision of an economic base for statehood, to which he is totally committed. Honourable members who saw  Dr Letts  on  Four Comers  in March will know that this is so. So why does the Government swallow these assurances so readily? Why does it not listen to the Aboriginal people who know their land rights will be summarily dealt with by the NTLA, and who are outraged by what they see to be the Federal Government's betrayal of their interests. 
I now want to speak briefly on the third area likely to be the subject of complementary legislationthat of entry permits to Aboriginal land. These will no longer be in the control of the land councils as under the 1975 Bill. Now entry permits will be issued through the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. This, I would submit, is totally inappropriate. The appropriate body to handle entry permits, as the 1975 Bill recognised, is the land council. The land councils are, in the first place, representative of the Aboriginal people. They are composed of representatives of the different Aboriginal peoples from the areas in which they operate. It is these bodies which are best placed to determine whether permits should be issued, not the members of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly, or the Northern Territory Administrator whose distance from the issues involved renders them singularly unsuited for the task. The Minister might be prepared to accept the bland assurances of  Dr Letts.  Like the Aborigines, I am too cynical. Permits for entry into Aboriginal land need to be controlled by the traditional land owners free from Government interference. All those yahoos, including the honourable member for Swan, may laugh. They should go up to Areyonga and some of the areas in which Aborigines are being treated like second class citizens. They should have the guts to have a go. 
It is easy to see that the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly is caving in to the rabid nonsense of the argument which asks: 'Why should they be allowed to keep us out? It's a free country'. It is too easy to see the NTLA engaging in shameful acts of paternalism and political censorship by refusing entry to people who it believes would be 'bad' for the Aborigines, such as people it deems to be stirrers. Indeed, I believe this nice piece of political cynicism may well be the motivation behind this aspect of the Bill. In fact, if there are people in this House who are sceptical of this claim, let them take note of  Dr Letts'  proposal that police have automatic right of entry without permits. Other public officers, such as teachers, stock inspectors and health inspectors, will have to seek permits. Why should we distinguish between types of important public officials in this way? Honourable members will forgive me, I hope, if I come to these obvious conclusions. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! I note that the honourable member for Swan and the honourable member for EdenMonaro are both listed to speak on this Bill. I suggest that they keep their replies to the honourable member for Melbourne until they are making their speeches. 
When the honourable member for Swan gets his riding instructions from Santamaria. Fourthly, I wish to discuss the crucial issue of control, declaration and protection of sacred sites. Responsibility for this, too, has been handed over to the Legislative Assembly. The Assembly has had an ordinance to control sacred sites for some time. It is generally regarded as the weakest such legislation in Australia, and not one site has been declared in the last 18 months despite constant requests from Aborigines. The declaration of sites is a highly political activity. A site declared where an open cut mine is about to be dug could prejudice the mining operation. This is the real reason to fear the Assembly controlling the declaration of sites. 
In any event, Assembly men have shown that they believe sites are tiny patches of land around which one can place a fence. They have no comprehension of the real meaning to Aborigines of sacred sites. This situation is just not good enough. There needs to be more adequate protection of sacred sites. The proper seat of jurisdiction should be the land councils, with ultimate safeguards provided in the form of legislation passed by this Parliament. We take the responsibility, not the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. Moreover, this needs to be done as a matter of urgency because the existing NTLA ordinance is totally inadequate. Very few sites have ever been declared under the ordinance, even though many sacred sites have been documented, and constant demands made that they be declared. Yet the Country Party dominated NTLA does nothing, and by its inactivity reveals its true motivations. 
One example of the importance and urgency of this matter is seen in the Mt Isa area where Mt Isa Mines Pty Ltd wants to put a pipeline through an area full of sacred sites. If they are able to destroy the sacred sites before they are declared, then the Borroloola people have lost evidence for their traditional claim to that land. Yet this Government would have us believe that the NTLA, dominated by the National Country Party which shamelessly acts as an electoral front for its clients in the mining industry will act to thwart the wishes of its great and powerful clients. 
Finally, I wish to discuss briefly the issue of Aboriginal rights to hunt protected wildlife in Aboriginal lands. The Government's Bill makes no provision for this matter. Again, it has been left to the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly, which has indicated that it intends insisting that Aborigines walk and only use traditional weapons when they hunt, whereas at present they use cars and rifles. It has been put to me by individuals that old men of 75 and 80 years of age have to walk to their traditional sites. It is a disgraceful situation when these men are hunted down and are not permitted into these areas in their cars. Does the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  deny that? Is not that the truth? 
-If he does not go, he should go along to the Areyonga community and tell the people there that he does not believe them. 
I would like to raise this evening the shortcomings of the community youth support scheme which has been projected by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street).  The scheme purports to assist people who are unemployed. Under the scheme community groups will receive financial assistance for supportive programs and for services to the young unemployed. This scheme is outlined in a document which has been received by members of this House. It involves job search orientation groups, voluntary community activities and vocational, hobby and interest expanding activity. Great things! What a conglomeration! People perhaps will have to be paid in kind. I am not quite sure what is meant. People may get some favour for mowing lawns. I am not quite sure what it is all about. The point is being missed. If the Government wants to do anything, it should be funding job creation and job placement programs. It has been indicated that they will not be funded. Local communities in which there is a disproportionately high percentage of youth unemployed will be encouraged to establish local committees to initiate and co-ordinate community efforts. Local Federal members will be given the opportunity to chair or to nominate chairmen of these local groups. God knows what we will do when this happens. 
The Commonwealth Government community youth support scheme at least shows some initiative in organisation, but one must be dismayed that community self-help groups will not be funded for job placement and job creation programs. The majority of self-help groups are actively involved in job placement and are doing a very good job. I refer to groups of young people such as Jobless Action in Canberra, Get a Job in Blacktown, YOU in Fitzroy, Job Shop in Shepparton, Job Shop in Kyabram, Youth a Job Need in Deniliquin, Pace in Frankston and the Geelong YCW Unemployment Group. All these groups have the potential, if they are properly used, co-ordinated, funded and assisted by the local member in a real sense - 
Yes, they should be encouraged instead of being sat on, as the honourable member for Corio indicates. In the United States of America and Canada community groups are funded for these purposes. It is accepted that for some of the unemployed these groups will provide a more relevant and meaningful service. It does not have to be the Commonwealth Employment Service that places people in jobs. Young people might be more willing to go along and talk to people of their own age. The program seems to be totally inadequate when we go through the rigmarole that is outlined by the Minister. 
At present the unemployed are virtually powerless and voiceless. The establishment of the self-help groups in the Victorian Federation of Self-help Groups is a tentative but significant step forward for the unemployed to participate in the decision making processes on issues that really affect them. The majority of unemployed want jobs. The Government should provide funds for job creation programs. To divert the unemployed into skill acquisition, motivation maintenance and voluntary work is to divert the unemployed and the unemployment issue away from the shortage of jobs to the shortcomings of the unemployed. To do something positive, the proposition needs to have some teeth. There has to be a program arranged around it, with proper co-ordination and organisation. The local members can do that. We ought to understand that the community self-help groups depend on the approval of the members of Parliament and local committees. I have taken the initiative in organising a meeting. 
While the initial aspects of the scheme may be given some consideration, it is a pity that the Commonwealth youth support scheme attempts to define acceptable funded programs and unacceptable non-funded programs. I urge the Government to reconsider the requirements and implications of this scheme concerning the initiatives to non-government community organisations. When a program is being designed these organisations ought to be properly and adequately consulted. They ought to be funded in a proper way, with the accent on finding jobs. The Government should not dither around in the way - 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice: 
How many permanent (a) third and (b) fourth division officers are employed in his Department. 
How many (a) temporary and (b) exempt employees are employed in his Department. 
How many officers of the Department are acting on a long-term basis in positions higher than their substantive positions. 
How many officers have been acting, and are acting, on a long-term basis for a period of (a) 3 to 6 months, (b) 6 to 12 months, (c) 1 to 2 years, (d) 2 to 3 years, (e) 3 to 4 years, (0 4 to 5 years, (g) 5 to 6 years, (h) 6 to 7 years and (i) more than 7 years. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) How many liaison officers are based in migration posts overseas. 
2 ) What are their functions and dudes. 
What is their workload in each post, in terms of cases processed each year during the last 10 years. 
How many rejections on liaison grounds by (a) post and ( b ) country have there been during the last 1 0 years. 
In which posts are there liaison officers, and what are the geographical areas of their responsibilities. 
In which posts are there no liaison officers, and by whom are their functions performed in these posts. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice: 
What criteria does the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees use in determining whether a people are to be designated as refugees. 
Have the displaced peoples of (a) Lebanon and (b) Chile been so designated by the United Nations; if not, can he supply details of why these peoples have failed to meet the United Nations ' criteria. 
Does he designate the displaced peoples of (a) Lebanon and (b) Chile as refugees; if not, what criteria does he use in determining whether a people are to be classified as refugees. 
In what respects does he see the circumstances of displaced Vietnamese as different from the circumstances of displaced Lebanese and Chileans. 
In what respects do the guidelines adopted by the Government towards admittance of displaced Vietnamese differ from the guidelines adopted towards admittance of displaced Lebanese and Chileans. 
How does the classification of a displaced people as refugees or non-refugees by the United Nations affect the attitude of the Government to applications to migrate to Australia. 
To the best of his knowledge, how many Chileans are currently illegally resident in Australia. 
Of those referred to in part (7), how many fled their country following the violent overthrow of the democratically elected Allende Government in 1 974. 
Can he provide information about the likely fates of these people if they are forced to return to Chile; if not, will he seek the information from Amnesty International and make it available to the House. 
Can he say whether many South American countries are deporting Chileans who fled from the violence of 1 974. 
What is the Government's attitude to applications for permanent residency by Chilean emigrants who entered Australia on temporary permits from countries other than Chile. 
12) Is the Government preparing to deport Chileans who are currently illegally resident in Australia; if so, how many people are liable for deportation. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. I ask: How many officers of his Department were involved in the raid on Children of God communes on the night of 29 November? How many prohibited immigrants were arrested in the raids? What was the cost of the exercise? How many communes were raided and in what States and Territories did the raids take place? Did the raids on the communes on 29 November take place with the Minister's full knowledge and approval? Were members of the Press present at any of the raids? Was the prime purpose of the raids to harass and gather information about the Children of God? Will the Minister agree that the raids constitute a blatant violation of civil rights? 
I rise to draw again to the attention of the House the question of migrant resource centres. Though the Government is showing some reticence about the fact, as I understand it on 4 November Cabinet made a number of decisions. Firstly, it approved the establishment of 2 experimental migrant resource centres- one in Melbourne to be operated under contract by the Australian Greek Welfare Society, and one in Sydney at a total cost not exceeding $70,000 in the current financial year. Secondly, it agreed that the centres would operate initially for 2 years. Thirdly, it agreed that the Departments of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs and Social Security should draw up a formal agreement between the Commonwealth and the Australian Greek Welfare Society setting out the basis of the provision of services by the Society for and on behalf of the Commonwealth. 
A similar agreement is to be drawn up to regulate the operation of the Sydney centre. The whole caboodle has to be cleared by the Departments of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, the Treasury and the Attorney-General. I suppose that this could be referred to as a form of legal overkill. For those reasons I would like to direct the attention of the House to what is clearly, in my view, a case of shameless tokenism. 
The Government is preparing to indulge in a massive propaganda exercise aimed at but not for the ethnic people in this country. In the light of recent developments I feel confirmed in this opinion. The Government's public relations exercise becomes very plain if we look at the functions which the migrant resources centres will be expected to provide. They will be expected to provide a multi-lingual reference and information point for migrants, particularly in respect of services provided by Commonwealth, State and local government intrumentalities, and a range of resources which would be accessible to social workers and welfare officers working with migrants, to ethnic community leaders, welfare administrators, teachers and students interested in migrant problems, and so on. They will be expected to provide facilities for use by migrant organisations such as for meetings and duplication of information material. They will be expected to encourage and co-ordinate voluntary action by groups and individuals to assist in the successful integration of migrants and to help overcome the problems of individuals. They will provide a range of reference and information material in English and in the foreign languages most used locally. They will be expected to draw attention to the particular problems of ethnic communities and individual migrants requiring Government action. 
This is a pretty formidable table of functions. The people who staff these centres will need to be sociologists, archivists, ombudsmen, social workers, psychologists, librarians, lobbyists, receptionists and super-administrators, all rolled into one, and multi-lingual into the bargain. Such people do not grow on trees. They would need to be paid handsomely and ideally, if the centres are to carry out these functions with any effectiveness at all, a number of people, each with some of the various skills, should be taken on. 
Yet what is the Government providing for this great venture? It is providing $70,000, a paltry sum indeed. That will barely cover the cost of accommodation and the salary of one or perhaps two, at a pinch, full-time officers in each centre. There will be nothing left for incidental office expenditure or for the day to day expenses which a centre with such grandiose aims as I have just listed will inevitably incur. 
Another point which ought to be made is this: What about other ethnic communities? The cynical electorally oriented tokenism which this represents is to be deplored. The Government has come up with a good idea, but why will it not act on it now? Why will it not provide the wherewithal necessary to enable the centres to carry out the laudable functions allotted to them? I know times are bad and that the Government has a particular economic strategy which it pigheadedly sticks to despite the evidence that it is totally inappropriate. But this is no excuse for tokenism. If the Government is not fair dinkum it should say so. It will not fool the ethnic people with its empty gesture in any case, no matter how loudly it beats its chest when the announcement is eventually made in the sweet bye and bye. Only when the Government decides to establish migrant resource centres that will cover the whole range of issues to which I have referred and which will cope with the problems of ethnic communities generally in this country and put the centres on a proper footing will it have any claim on the goodwill of the migrant people. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
This Government, having failed to honour the grandiose promises with which it conned its way to power, seeks a scapegoat to divert attention from its manifest inadequacies in the economic field. That scapegoat is the elected trade union leadership of Australia. Despite with the sleight of hand men, the manipulators of truth on the other side, may say, its leadership is democratically elected. In the long and shameful history of union bashing by conservative parties, this arch conservative Government stands supreme. There is no limit to the depths to which this Government and its spokesmen will sink, no limit to the subterfuge to which it will resort to denigrate and try to destroy responsible trade unionism in this country. According to this Government the unions are responsible for everything bad and for everything that goes wrong. There is no suggestion that the Government itself, by its own incompetence, is stifling recovery in Australia and wilfully- let us be frank about it- maintaining unemployment at historically high levels to the great distress of many thousands of Australians. Instead of buckling down to tackle the twin problems of inflation and unemployment in a comprehensive way, the Government attacks only the wages component of the economy, as though Australians do not have a right to maintain their standard of living. It is carrying out in a ruthless way its announced policy of reducing the real wages of Australians while sliding about all over the place in other areas of the economy. 
Two areas come to mind in which the Government is spear-heading its assault on the trade unions. One with which I will deal briefly is the shipbuilding industry. The other is the Newport power station in Victoria which I will deal with at some length. Shipbuilding is an industry which one would expect would be in line with the Government's own philosophy- or whatever it is called- to maintain. It would seem a good idea to keep viable such an industry, particularly when so many more jobs are at stake and whose loss would further aggravate the problem of unemployment. 
Instead of being honest about the matter the Government does the opposite to the Mafia, which it closely resembles, and makes the unions an offer they cannot possibly accept. It then blames the unions for being irresponsible in not accepting the offer. Such manifest double dealing is something one does not expect from a responsible government which says it has the future of Australia at heart. Union leaders have rightly condemned the offer, while good working people of the city of Newcastle remain in fear of the loss of their livelihood. 
This brings me to the Newport issue. It is appropriate to raise this matter in this place because the Draconian measures taken by the Victorian Government against the trade unions have been enthusiastically applauded by this Government's leaders. Trade union leaders visiting this country in past weeks have been appalled both by the nature of the Government's so-called offer on shipbuilding and by the savagery of the Victorian response on Newport. They say that no trade union in the world could accept either. Let us look at what the unions have done in Victoria over the Newport issue. Certainly they have maintained bans on the building of this power station, but they have done so for good and cogent reasons which have been supported by men of science and others in the community who have been led to say: 'Thank God for the unions because they are the only thing standing between the community and potential disaster'. The unions did not take their decision lightly. The Newport issue has been the subject of long and intelligent debate. By a majority vote the unions came down on the side of maintaining the bans. Now they have gone further in a genuine effort to find a compromise which has been lacking in the Victorian Government's approach to this problem. 
The unions have asked for a wide-ranging inquiry into Victoria's power requirements and an examination of alternative sites for the power station. Let us look at the proposed terms of reference for such an inquiry. It will inquire into the necessity for an intermediate load power station, including an assessment of the present capacity to ascertain whether it can provide for present and future variations in demand. It will inquire into the State Electricity Commission projections on electrical energy needs and the capacity of the system to supply them. It will examine alternative sources of power and the ability to deliver that power in Victoria, particularly through a stabilisation technology for the system. It will examine matters not considered by the previous Newport inquiry- land use, resource use, the economics of electricity generation by natural gas, decentralisation and aesthetics. It will assess alternative sites existing in Victoria for new power stations. I ask: Is that irresponsible? Is that holding the State to ransom? Is that an attempt to take over from the elected Government? It certainly is not. It is a reasonable conclusion reached by concerned men and women with the future needs, comforts and prosperity of the people of Victoria very much in mind. 
Do we get this level of concern from the other side? Do we get an intelligent approach which seeks to look at the problem of all energy resources in the broad and to make the most efficient use of all resources? We do not. What we get is an exercise in the politics of confrontation, an almost lunatic determination to build the Newport power station at all costs, to the extent that the issue has become the focus of crisis in Victoria. The hysterical reaction of the Hamer Government to the continuation of the unions' ban on the building of the Newport power station demonstrates that its professed concern for the people of that State is hypocritical. That Government's solution to the stopping of one project is to stop all projects, including schools, hospitals, and sewerage and water installations, which are all vitally needed by the community. The next trick in the Hamer Government's reactionary repertoire is to introduce anti-union legislation within the politics of confrontation to create havoc and civil strife. This Government selfrighteously says that the unions have acted contrary to the interests of the people of Victoria and that it gets back to the simple question of who is running the State. The unions are saying in the first instance that the power station is not required at the proposed Newport site; that it should be built elsewhere. They are saying further that a power station of the type proposed for the Newport site may not be needed at all, and there is abundant evidence to support this second contention. 
It has been put to the people of Melbourne that the opposition to Newport is being mounted by a coalition of the power-hungry Left and unrealistic eco-freaks. This Government denegrates responsible people who make up such bodies as the Australian Conservation Foundation, the Port Phillip Conservation Council and the Williamstown Conservation Society. Certainly the environment- the pollution of an already polluted atmosphere-is an issue in the struggle against the Newport proposal. But it is not the only one. The use of land resources close to the city, the wicked misuse of scarce fuel resources- indeed the whole question of a rational resource policy- are equally factors in the Newport debate. All of these factors have been ignored by the empire building bureaucracy of the State Electricity Commission and by the Hamer Government. 
Let us deal with the environmental issue first before getting down to the issue of whether the Newport power station or something like it is needed in Victoria. One scientific opinion on air pollution and the Newport issue concludes: 
The photochemical air pollution problem in Melbourne is already bad, and it will get worse - 
I interpolate and say 'if - 
Newport begins operating. To allow these increases, plus that from Newport, to be added to an already bad situation seems to indicate that the official goal of the Environment Protection Authority and the Government that is to clean up Melbourne's air pollution is not being taken seriously. 
Another opinion concludes that the emission of oxides of nitrogens for Newport 'will contribute to the severity and probably the frequency of photochemical smogs over Melbourne, which ave been increasing in recent years'.  Mr I.  C. Cochrane, lecturer in electrical engineering at the University of Melbourne, makes this comment on the Newport project: 
The Newport station was intended to provide electric power for weekday industrial and domestic load plateau of many hundreds of megawatts. Because it would pollute Melbourne and deplete the natural gas resources of the State its construction was banned by the trade unions. However the load plateau can be reduced and the need for Newport eliminated, given appropriate policy and consumer cooperation. 
The SEC drones on-like the honourable member's bees, and we have learned to live with that- about the absolute need for the Newport power station to cater for assumed levels of demand for electric power in the future. It is quite clear that the predicted demand is a direct result of the SEC's own prodigal marketing and tariff policies in the absence of i rational energy policy. The SEC has actively discouraged community awareness. The Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee),  who is carrying on a conversation with the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  and who sold his soul for the front bench, is probably riving some unwieldy words of advice. The need for energy conservation has encouraged high levels of energy use.  Ms Deborah  White, a lecturer in building science at the University of Melbourne, in a penetrating study of whether we can afford the Newport power station, had this to say: 
Not only is the need for Newport the direct and predictable result of the SEC's past marketing and tariff policies, but the Commission's present policies are designed to continue exponential growth in energy consumption into the twenty-first century. With a predicted growth rate of 6.6 per cent, this means that demand will be encouraged to double every 1 1 years. By the year 2020 consumption of electricity is expected (hoped?) to increase 16 times. Meanwhile Victoria's population growth rate has dropped to less than 1 per cent and is likely to decline steadily. 
Researcher White goes on to say: 
It is clear that it is in fact the enormous predicted increase in the use of domestic electric appliances by 1988 for which Newport is said to be needed. The increased consumption is in all cases at least partly the direct result of SEC promotion and marketing. The SEC, however, continues to threaten the community with industrial power shortages, stand-downs and unemployment if Newport is not built immediately. 
The Newport power station represents a wantonly wasteful use of the ndeniably scarce resource of natural gas. In fact, it must come as a surprise to many people that you need to use natural gas to run an intermediate electric power generating plant such as that proposed for Newport. Using gas to supply electricity requires at least 1.7 times the gas required by the more direct gas stove. The competition to sell resourcewasteful electric stoves in competition with the Gas and Fuel Corporation, which operates under the same Minister, is an indictment of the lack of a fuels policy in the Victorian Government. High peak loads are also the most expensive to supply. The reduction of electric stove installations and the substitution of gas stoves would reduce the total demand curve to provide a more efficient plant use and resource use. 
Time does not permit me to go into other alternatives which the evidence suggests are available to Newport. If the alternatives I have put and others are in contention then the inquiry requested by the Victorian unions would determine the best course of action. That is the reality of Newport. That is the sane position and if this Government and other watchdogs of conservatism and reaction in this country would stop baying their demented chorus of hatred against unions we might get somewhere. The annual growth rate projected by the SEC clearly is not sustainable. The Swedish government has recognised the problem of exponential energy consumption rates and is considering a policy which would limit annual growth rates to no more than 2 per cent up to 1985 and from thereon they would either be maintained at that constant level or they would decrease. 
The Fraser Government is carrying out this campaign of union bashing in order to pour the ills of the economy over the trade union movement. The Fraser Government has failed to coerce such people as  Sir John  Moore and his colleagues of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and to force them to become puppets of the Government as regulators of the economy. Having failed, the Minister at the table has got some people in his DepartmentI would like the Minister to reply to this point- to set up the ways and means by which the Government can put the manacles on the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and have it do the Government's dirty work for it by forcing a wage freeze. As far as I am concerned the traditional role of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission is to settle industrial disputes as an independent authority without its being coerced by the Minister or by the Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  who goes back to 1957 to get a prop for his Government. If the Government contemplates such a step it should have the guts to go to the Australian people on the issue. I offer the warning that attempts to destroy the principles of conciliation and arbitration in the industrial arena has resulted in the demise of governments lead by Stanley Melbourne Bruce in Australia and  Mr Edward  Heath in the United Kingdom. The same fate awaits this incompetent Government. If the Government believes that it is going to lead the Australian people up the garden path by this deception then it has another think coming. It will not alter the fact that the Government is on a disaster course. It is destroying the Australian economy and trying to batter the Australian unions into submission. 
I rise as the seconder of the amendment to the motion for the second reading of this Bill. The honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King)  has lauded the honourable member for Bowen  (Mr Jull).  If he is the hope of the side then God help the Government. There are few areas of policy with which the Government has shown greater impatience than broadcasting. It has moved to impose its own stamp on the structure of broadcasting with undignified haste. It had been in office just 4 months when it set up the inquiry into broadcasting and television and within 9 months the report was presented. It was certainly fast work. To my mind it was a little too fast. The matter of Australian broadcasting is too important and complex to be specifically processed in a superficial way over a mere 6 months. In Britain the Annand Committee has taken 2 years to conduct an inquiry into a broadcasting structure which is nowhere near as complex as ours. Something in that order just might have done justice to the intricacies and thorny problems which require attention and resolution in Australia. Certainly these problems will not be resolved by this Bill. 
This Bill shows the same ill-conceived haste of preparation that characterises the report. The resolution of the many and varied problems of Australian broadcasting is not what the Government is worried about. The Government's intentions are political. It wants to destroy the Australian Broadcasting Control Board and the Australian Broadcasting Commission. 
This Bill is interim legislation and one needs to compare its terms carefully with the sentiments expressed by the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  in his second reading speech. Apparently there are a number of things left untouched by this Bill which will be the subject of later legislation. But, even allowing for some of the gaps to be filled at a later date, it is apparent that the Bill departs substantially from the recommendations of the Green report. This is interesting. After all, the Government appointed its own private inquiry and has now chosen to ignore its recommendations without explaining why or how it believes its own report to be unsatisfactory. 
Let us look at some of the inconsistencies. Under the Green report, the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal will set the standards to be administered by the Broadcasting Council as a statutory body. Yet the Bill waters down the Broadcasting Council to the status of an advisory body. Who will administer the standards then? The department? We do not know, but in the absence of such vital information the Government must excuse us if we fear the worst. We also find in clause 6 of the Bill that no provision is made for appeals from Tribunal decisions to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal which Green recommended. We find further that the legislation does not require the Tribunal to hold public inquiries as recommendation 17 of the Green report proposed. Why not? What does the Government have against public inquiries? It has an anti-democratic unwillingness to allow the people of Australia to scrutinise or even to participate in public decision making. It should beware. The people of Australia are starting to appreciate the contempt in which this Government holds them. 
If we look at clause 9, which alters the composition of the Australian Broadcasting Commission, we find that the provision flies directly in the face of recommendation 32 of the Green report, yet it is all quite purposeless. It has long been the convention to appoint commissioners from various States. The States of South Australia and Tasmania and also women are under-represented because of this Government's action in appointing  Sir Henry  Bland and  Mr Short.  Clause 13 also provides for the Minister to grant public television or public radio licences. Why does the Minister want this power? Again it is inconsistent with the Green recommendations which are that the Tribunal should grant all licences. So why the variation? The answer is obvious. In fact certain aspects of licences issued previously were never attended to, such as Australian content, a matter which was referred to quite wrongly by the honourable member for Bowman. That condition was never carried out. The Government wishes to have personal control of this aspect of broadcasting as part of its pattern of political subversion of Australian broadcasting. If another interpretation can be placed on this state of affairs I look forward to hearing it from the Minister. Finally, the Bill gives the Minister power to make regulations for the establishment of an Australian Broadcasting Council. Again, this is significantly different from the Green report which advocated a statutory authority for the Broadcasting Council with administrative powers. 
Earlier I called the Green report superficial and said that it was hastily prepared. That is so, but at least it contains a broad statement of broadcasting principles. That is why the Government has ignored it. The Government is not interested in finding a means of exercising maximum political influence in broadcasting while remaining as invisible as possible. This clearly comes through from an analysis of the Bill's divergence from the recommendations of the report. These divergences amount to a significant shift away from the structure envisaged by the Green report and in each case the shift is to place increasingly more power in the hands of the Minister. 
This Bill is one of the most insidious pieces of legislation ever to come before an Australian Parliament. There can be no doubt about the Government's intention- it is political control, in some instances directly and in some by proxy. The main target for this control is the ABC, that fine body of Australian excellence which the Government, used to the mindless bleatings of the fawning, petty tyrants in the private media, has determined to crush. The Government has become so used to having its every whim carried out by the commercial media that it has come to equate sycophancy with neutrality and true neutrality with socialist bias. 
Firstly, there is the ominous but as yet undetermined question of the relationship of the ABC to the Tribunal. The Bill gives the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal power to determine minimum standards for commercial and public stations. Whether the ABC also will be answerable to the Tribunal has yet to be determined. Yet commercial broadcasters have argued that the ABC should no longer have the power independently to determine its own standards. If the Government does determine to subject the ABC to review by the Tribunal, it certainly will be putting it at the mercy of the commercial broadcasting interests. In the composition of the proposed Broadcasting Council the commercial sector has, of course, come out on top with 4 representatives. What is likely to occur then? Can we expect the Government eventually to hand over the ABC to commercial interests? Of course we can. What better way to emasculate the ABC than the surreptitious way it is happening under this Bill? 
This is precisely what the Government is aiming at. Furthermore, the Government has let its guard slip on sufficient occasions to give fuel for these fears. The Minister has indicated that when the Parliamentary Counsel has time to draft further legislation new powers will be given to the Tribunal. On 8 November or thereabouts in an interview on  State of the Nation  the Minister stated that the Tribunal would be much more self regulating, thus pre-empting the result of inquiry set up specifically to determine that very question. 
It has been made very clear just what is meant by self-regulation. There would seem to be 3 elements to the concept- the setting of censorship standards, of advertising standards and of Australian content in television and radio programs. In each of these 3 areas it would seem most undesirable to hand over control to a socalled self-regulating body dominated by commercial interests, but particularly in the latter 2 cases. We have been asked to contemplate the idea of a self-regulating body dominated by commercial interests establishing advertising standards in the public media. What sort of Randist madness has the Government served up for us here? The total inappropriateness of this measure is so obvious as to require no further comment. And what of this other area of selfregulation, Australian content of programs? The Government is in the process of handing the commercial interests the enormous bonus for which they have schemed and lobbied so long and in the process is dealing a mortal blow to our own brave but ailing entertainment industry. Despite what the honourable member for Bowman said, there is plenty of evidence to that effect. 
The Government is handing over Australian broadcasting to whet the appetites of the commercial media. That it does so is further evidence of its blind devotion to these dogmatic tenets of trendy Fraserism. The only wonder is that the commercial media appear rather reluctant to accept this marvellous gift that the Government is offering them. It is a matter of wide public knowledge that the commercial sector of the media industry launched a vigorous lobbying campaign to get Liberal members of Parliament either to get all the powers transferred to the broadcasting tribunal rather than to have any power in the Postal and Telecommunications Department or to get the legislation delayed for another year. This Government is so incompetent that it could not even carry out the wishes of its clients accurately. The commercial media are unwilling to have any powers vested in the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, for they recognise that there will be a Minister of quite different ilk holding that position some time after 1978. 
As of Friday, the Government changed all this. It finally worked out what the commercial interests want. Of course it is determined to act accordingly. Hence we now have an additional provision in clause 14 which, according to the Minister's statement at page 3265 of Friday's  Hansard  is 'designed to make it quite clear that clause 14 will not convey a right for the secretary' the Secretary of the Postal and Telecommunications Department- 'to in any way require changes in the program formats of stations'. Thus the last objection of the commercial sector has been met. It has received from this Government everything it wanted. It has received that at the expense of the public broadcasting sector. 
I turn to the internal implications of this Bill for the ABC. The Government has reconstituted the Commission's membership in a way which makes a mockery of the standard practice in statutory appointments. It is obvious that this is a transparent device to remove certain people from the Commission, not, as is claimed, a mere reform of the principle of representation. New commissioners will be appointed by the Government. Until last Friday the Government had not denied speculation that staff elected Commissioner Marius Webb would not be allowed to complete his full term. Undoubtedly this was what was going to happen. I will clear up something for the record.  Mr Webb  is not the Staff Association representative. He was elected from 30 candidates nominated from all ABC unions. He represents the staff of the ABC. More than 50 per cent of the ABC staff voted in that election. 
There had also been reports that the Victorian Commissioner,  Mrs Benn,  and the Western Australian Commissioner, Professor Harding, would also have their terms curtailed. Only in the face of strong and sustained lobbying by ABC staff members has the Government capitulated on this point and made provision for ail the present commissioners to serve out their remaining term. The Government is to be commended for making this small concession at least. It was a rather belated effort and highlighted the weakness of its original intention. In this part of the legislation, both as originally drafted and as presented now, we are again treated to an admirable exhibition of the subtlety with which this Government goes about pursuing its aims. The end is still the same- a totally reconstituted commission, stacked by the Government's hand picked men. The Government will not be running the ABC. It will do so by proxy, by making sure that the 'right' people, people of its own choosing, people on whom the Government can depend to make politically amenable decisions, will be running the show. 
The Bill should be placed in its proper context. Its context is that of a political vendetta aimed at politically neutral public broadcasting. Its target is the ABC. This Bill is only one of a series of attempts aimed at bludgeoning the ABC to the Government's will. The Bill needs to be placed in the context of the appointment of the Government 's faithful hatchet man,  Sir Henry  Bland, as  Chairman  of the ABC. Unfortunately for the Government,  Sir Henry  is not particularly discriminate at whom he aims his hatchet. The Bill needs to be seen in the context of a sustained propaganda campaign aimed at destroying the integrity of the ABC's current affairs division. It needs to be seen in the context of drastic cuts in the ABC's budget, cuts so severe that members of the Australian Journalists Association employed by the ABC at Canberra were able to list 14 examples of impairment of broadcasting services as a result of cuts, when they met to take their action last Sunday. Finally, it needs to be seen in the text of continuous administrative bungling aimed at the slow wearing down of staff morale. One does not wonder at the concern and apprehension of many of the staff and supporters of the ABC when one is mindful of the statements by 2 Ministers,  Mr Nixon  and  Senator Withers,  and certain National Country Party officials that the ABC is to be cleaned up, particularly in the current affairs broadcasting area. 
I want to discuss one aspect of governmental mismanagement of broadcasting in Australia, and that is ethnic radio in which honourable members know I have a long standing interest. It is well known that the control of ethnic radio has been the subject of an empire building feud between the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  and the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. It is widely known that the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs met the  Chairman  of the ABC and other senior ABC executives in mid-October when the Minister's gentle overtures were deftly and subtly rebuffed by  Sir Henry,  particularly on the matter of the appointment of a national ethnic broadcasting council to advise the ABC. At that meeting  Sir Henry  rightly pointed out that, despite the Minister's assurance that his interest in the council would cease with its appointment and that he would be prepared to consult the 
ABC about the appointees, the fact that the appointees were the Minister's would be seen by the public as an intrusion on the political independence of the ABC. Moreover, if it were known that the Minister intended to have no interest in the council once it were appointed, suspicions of political influences could be strengthened and there would be the implied reflection that the ABC could not be trusted to appoint the right sort of council. There is also the consideration, as I believe  Sir Henry  pointed out to the Minister, that normally any body desiring advice selected its own advisers and that this is the long standing practice of the ABC. 
What should be the ultimate fate of ethnic radio? The Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs is probably not the appropriate authority as it is presently constituted. The Department is almost exclusively a Department of Immigration and has little to do with ethnic affairs as such. It has a heading on its stationery, and that is about where it starts and finishes. It is a moot point as to whether the ABC is the appropriate seat of location for ethnic radio. Ideally ethnic radio would have been more suitably located in its own statutory authority, as I have argued previously in this place. Given that ethnic radio is to be located in the ABC, there are a number of safeguards which should be insisted upon. For instance, each ethnic community desiring to participate should be able to elect its program committee and chairperson. The size of each program committee and the method of its election should be left to each ethnic community to determine for itself and to organise. An ethnic broadcasting council should be established in each State, with some representatives from the ABC, but the majority should be elected from each of the community broadcasting committees. The ethnic broadcasting council should be responsible for formulation of State policy on ethnic broadcasting. 
These proposals add up to a substantial degree of autonomy for ethnic broadcasting in the ABC. I am very worried about the implications of this legislation for the autonomy of ethnic broadcasting. The ABC is soon to become subject to a Broadcasting Tribunal which will be dominated by commercial broadcasting interests who have already shown what they feel about ethnic radio. Too much is left unsaid by this legislation for us to know the exact nature of this relationship, but the portents seem ominous for the ABC and, thereafter, ethnic broadcasting. I think the purpose of this Bill is clear. It is an iniquitous document. I urge the House to deal with it accordingly and to carry the amendment moved by the honourable member for Maribyrnong. 
-I rise in this adjournment debate to draw to the attention of the House the proposed demise of the Migrant Community Services Branch of the Department of Social Security. The Department of Social Security has recently conducted a staff utilisation review of its social welfare division. That division has been decimated by the Government's abandonment of the Australian assistance plan and the remnants of the Social Welfare Commission, and further changes are mooted. By far the largest element of the division is the Migrant Community Services Branch, which contains over 40 officers working in the specialised area of post-arrival services for migrants. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, it is not possible to overrate the importance which the Migrant Community Services Branch has in fact, and in the eyes of migrant people. The Migrant Community Services Branch is the real' ethnic affairs' branch of the Public Service. By contrast with this 40- strong branch in the Department of Social Security, the 'ethnic affairs' unit of the so-called Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs consists of a letterhead and about three or four officers rushing around getting in each other's way. This is a farce. All the rubbish that was contained in the Liberal and National Country Parties' propaganda leading up to the election of 1 975 led people up the garden path. I repeat that what we got was a letterhead and three or four officers. 
The future of the Migrant Community Services Branch is a matter of some importance. Yet, incredibly, the staff utilisation review of the Social Welfare Division of the Department of Social Security is in the process of recommending that the branch be disbanded and absorbed into a new structure not recognising a specifically migrant oriented branch. It is my opinion that this would be a most retrograde step, and I am very pleased to see that at least one Minister agrees with me, although there seems to be some difference of opinion. As tomorrow's  Hansard  will show,  Senator Guilfoyle,  in answer to a question from  Senator Mulvihill  in another place, today expressed her unqualified opinion that an identifiable migrant-oriented welfare service needs to be maintained. Let us now hope that she acts on that belief, and that the Migrant Community Services Branch will be allowed to remain, and to remain at its current strength. This is, after all, the only identifiable branch of the Commonwealth Public Service which is currently able to develop specific programs for the migrant community. 
I would like to know why this change has been proposed in the first place. I can think of no reason for it, unless migrant welfare is deemed a less important consideration than minor administrative convenience. If this is the reason, we are faced with a classic instance of self-justifying bureaucracy- bureaucracy moving under its own impetus and acting in accordance with its own internalised priorities. We well know the zeal with which this Government is wont to do battle with what it deems to be rampant bureaucracy. One hopes it will tackle this instance with the same enthusiasm. Or perhaps the matter is more subtle.  Senator Guilfoyle  disclaimed any knowledge in the Senate today of the review into the Migrant Community Services Branch. Is this really a ploy to take migrant welfare out of that Department without the Minister's knowledge, so that the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, with its four or five relevant officers, can establish a monopoly over ethnic affairs? If so, who is behind this little exercise in empirebuilding the Minister, or over-zealous officers in his Department? 
If the recommendations of the staff utilisation review are followed, migrants will lose their most valuable channel to the Public Service. Such a course of action would serve further to confuse migrants and the Public Service as to just who is responsible for ethnic affairs in this countrySocial Security or Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. Perhaps the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr Mackellar),  who represents the Minister for Social Security in this place, could enlighten us one of these days instead of leading migrants up the garden path and placing them in a situation where they have to rely on a letterhead and four or five officers to look after their needs in this country. 
I rise this evening to discuss the plight of Chilean refugees who face deportation at the hands of this Government. On 18 November the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  in response to a question which I placed on the notice paper some months ago stated that deportation orders had been signed against 30 Chileans who were illegally resident in Australia and that other cases were under consideration. He further stated that there was no evidence to suggest that those persons would be subject to persecution if they were returned to Chile. The Minister must live in some sort of fairyland and perhaps to the right of that. What he proposes is the equivalent of sending Jews to Germany in 1940. The members of the Chilean regime will go down in the annals of history as one of the most vicious cliques of people to ever hold power anywhere in the world at any time. If the Minister or anyone in the House is in any doubt about that they have only to browse through the many totally authoritative reports prepared by Amnesty International. Information made available in August 1976 suggests that approximately 3800 political prisoners currently are held in detention in Chile. This figure includes only those who can be accounted for. It does not include the number of prisoners who have disappeared since the date of their detention. Between 1500 and 2000 prisoners have disappeared since the military  coup  on 11 September 1973. More than 1000 persons have been detained at some time or another for political reasons. 
People continue to disappear and this massive persecution affects a wide spectrum of political groups as well as large numbers of other opponents of the government such as lawyers and social workers who are involved in assisting political prisoners and their families. The Chilean secret police- the DINA- has refined torture and totalitarian control to a degree of which Goebbels would have been envious. Yet this regime which is one of the most inhuman the world has ever seen even has some supporters in this House. One honourable member made a speech protecting the regime. He rejected the concept that it was an inhuman regime. I direct his attention to the absolute matters of fact which are available. I am sure other speakers will support me in this.  Mr Abel-  I cannot draw to mind his constituency- is the man who made the speech. 
For example, on 16 September the honourable member for Evans- that is his constituency- made an impassioned speech in which he defended this monstrous government because, after all, it is anti-communist. If you wear a pair of red underpants around the place honourable members are looking sideways at you. The fact that the Marxist orientated government was democratically elected whereas the present group of ruling thugs was not, does not concern him or any of the sabre-rattling individuals on that side of the House. 
-I have named the individual-the honourable member for Evans. He is not here this evening, but he is a sabre rattler and a fascist, like the rest of them. 
-by leave-I wish to complain about the manner in which this procedure of tabling documents takes place and about the position in which the Opposition is placed. The report of the Commissioner for Community Relations has been in the hands of the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  for at least 3 weeks. I have not seen the report. I had a brief statement placed on my table this morning. The Opposition is expected to respond intelligently to the contents of the document. That would be absolutely impossible. Even the brief statement of the Minister ought to be criticised. He has a penchant for seeking advice, then bucketing the adviser. The issue of the  Handbook of Hate  was one such example. Now we have another instance, the tabling of the report by the Commissioner. This report got the same treatment. 
This is a most negative approach to what ought to be a very positive attitude. The Government should be giving the lead on this issue. The initiative to combat racial discrimination was taken by the Labor Government. It ought to have been well supported by this Government. There have been widespread breaches of our international obligations because of a literal interpretation of words. There is a moral obligation to carry out what was deemed to be covenants of international arrangements. I make reference to one specific area, namely, migrant women in the work force. It seems to me that we are in breach of international covenants on this issue. Further, I raise the issue of refugees or quasi-refugees. If we apply the literal interpretation of the word, of course the Minister is right. But we have a moral obligation to ensure that we are not in breach of international standards. 
I will not go any further than I have on this matter because the Opposition is at a total disadvantage in endeavouring to debate intelligently such a very important subject. I put it to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  that an obligation is on us to consider this report in another way. I believe that there is an obligation on the Government to allow a debate on this report in the new year. Through you,  Mr Speaker,  I request the Prime Minister or the 
Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  to move that the House take note of the paper and so provide the machinery required to enable such a debate to take place in the new year. 
-The report of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Specific Learning Difficulties is one of the most important documents in the field of education to come before this Parliament. It is concerned with a single aspect of education- the group which does not achieve 'minimum acceptable standards' in numeracy and literacy. It is a humane and compassionate document, containing practical and worthwhile recommendations, many of which could be quickly implemented with little expense, to deal with the vital question of under-achievement in the basic educational skills. But while it is not acted uponthere is little evidence to suggest other than passing notice by the Government- it remains another 'interesting' document and the problem of under-achievement remains unassailed. The fact that there is no Minister at the table to hear my views on the issues arising out of the document is not to the credit of the Government. 
The reason I rise in this debate is to ask the Government why there has not even been the beginning of action on the Committee 's recommendations. One sees from the report that the Aboriginal community organisations course at the Swinburne College of Technology is about to be discontinued. The funding for that course will cease in 1977. There have been about 30 applicants for the course for 1977, including 4 Aborigines from as far away as Roper River in the Northern Territory. The Government has shown scant respect for the very important work that should be got under way in the near future. 
Together with the report of the Australian Council for Educational Research, the report of the Select Committee forms the basis of an alliance for literacy. The Opposition welcomes the report of  Dr Ronald  T. Fitzgerald entitled  Poverty and Education in Australia  which was tabled today. So we have ample evidence of the problem and a range of recommendations which would give some serious government ample opportunity to do something about the problem. Until the emergence of these reports, research material on these subjects was sparse. Having got them, let us do something about them. The Opposition urges the Government to take urgent action to implement at least some of the recommendations of the Committee and to commit itself to the longer term objectives of the report. 
Let us look at the problem in its most fundamental human terms. Failing to teach a child to read is among the more serious injuries which one human being can inflict upon another. The child has closed to him the excitement and information of the world of books. He also has closed to him most of his chances of taking full advantage of the opportunities which education could otherwise have afforded him. The following figures come from the nationwide survey of literacy and numeracy in Australian schools carried out by the ACER, and they are stark: Twentynine per cent of Australia's 10-year old children and 27 per cent of 14-year old children are unable to understand written material which is no more difficult than the text books and reference books they use in their classrooms. Up to 20 per cent of 14-year olds are unable to comprehend either the literal or inferential meaning of passages taken from daily newspapers. Between IS per cent and 25 per cent of children are passing from primary school into secondary school and ultimately leaving school altogether without ever acquiring an adequate mastery of the basic educational skills which they need in order to function successfully as citizens and as members of the work force. 
Children who are not brain damaged or otherwise the victims of a major handicap should have picked up the mechanics of reading by the time they are aged seven. Teaching a child to read is the most fundamental responsibility which is owed to him by bis school and by the education system generally. Unfortunately, one thing which can be said with complete certainty is that enormous numbers of today's children are not mastering the reading skills which research shows clearly could be taught to them. Britain's Bullock Committee report called  A Language for  living had this to say: 
If children are apparently unable to learn, we should assume that we have not as yet found the right way to teach them. 
But in Australian schools these children are as likely as not to be classed as dyslexics, and the moral responsibility for teaching them is offloaded on remedial reading staff outside the normal classroom. Many will have left school before an actual remedial reading place is so much as offered to them. There are, of course, many areas and levels in the community where the problem of under-achievers can and must be tackled. These include parental education, pre-school education and television. 
Let me for a moment tackle the very core of the problem, and that is teacher training. At school level the most important factor setting literacy back has been a disastrous collapse in the practical content of teacher training. According to the British Bullock report, preparing a teacher for the passing on of reading skills should occupy at least 100 hours of training course time, and preferably ISO hours. But the Select Committee discovered that in Australian teacher training colleges the following was the position: 
The median values are quite low, at 10 to 20 hours, and even the maximum values of 60 to 75 hours are less than internationally recommended standards. 
As the Select Committee was told, it is not dyslexia or specific learning difficulties which have landed us with the literacy problem, as much as teaching which fails to identify precisely where breakdowns have occurred in the child's acquisition of reading, to tackle them, and then retest to make sure that success has been achieved. As the Committee's report makes clean 
The teaching of reading, numeracy and language should be the responsibility of all teachers. A child who is failing in subjects such as geography or history because of difficulties with basic skills should be taught these skills within the subject areas of the subject teacher. 
From the research evidence, the whole idea of taking children out of their classrooms for separate remedial teaching should now be seen as deeply suspect. The Select Committee was told that, while there had been spectacular initial gains in performance on the part of great numbers of children, often in the long term these gains declined or even disappeared. Too frequently, withdrawal from the normal classroom setting leads to the child 's problem being seen as in his own ability or personality rather than in the qualities of  the teacher or  of the classroom itself, as is so often really the case. When the remedial process has run its course, the child simply returns to the conditions which gave him his difficulties in the first place. 
Increasingly, the remedial teacher who works apart in a room of his own has to be supplanted by the resource teacher whose programs are conducted shoulder to shoulder with the classroom teacher on a team basis. So long as there are not enough resource teachers to go around- this seems bound to be the case for some considerable time- there has to be a way open for parents to come in and help free the classroom teacher for the actual business of instruction if that is going to be necessary in the first instance. Parents are the great untapped resource of the education system as far as meeting the slow learners' need for warmth and individual attention is concerned. There are problems. Problems were thrown up in the course of our deliberations and in the evidence taken by the Committee. But in the short term, if we do not act and act quickly, children are going to be committed to a lifetime of the emptiness that goes with failing to achieve progress in the literacy and numeracy area. Failing to mount a major research effort into getting the best from parental involvement in classrooms has been a major oversight on the part of the planners and administrators of Australian education. 
There is room here for a general comment to be made on educational research. What Australia is getting back from its educational research dollar reflects more the preoccupations of staff of the universities and colleges of advanced education than it does the problems facing teachers in their everyday work. New funding arrangements should be made. These require a setting of priorities each year for educational research by the national Government. Each year a list should be prepared of specific projects which the Education Research and Development Committee lets out to research workers on a tender basis. Research funds should be split between these national interest projects and the proposals which researchers continue to put forward to the Committee on their own initiative. 
Let us turn to the report of the Select Committee. In 2 years the Select Committee received more than 400 submissions and took more than 4000 pages of evidence. After all that work, which was conducted in an atmosphere of goodwill and understanding, the Committee came to a general belief that the levels of achievement are acceptable only when they enable the individual to compete in society in such a way that he can, with reasonable effort, obtain for himself a reasonable livelihood, dignity and reasonable social intercourse. The Committee went on to say in its report: 
The reason for under-achievement in a young child or person greatly in need cannot set aside his entitlement to extra teaching resources. It should be the aim of our educational system to bring every person to a level where he can at least be a functional member of society. We believe that this objective would be shared by most Australians. 
That is a very important quotation from the report. Let me say that the Opposition shares this objective and it cannot see why there should be any delay in implementing the recommendations of the report so that such an admirable objective can be achieved. It is no Utopian objective of equal opportunity for all; it is simply a matter of trying to establish a situation in which the disadvantaged get a run in the race which every day is being made more difficult by the economic obstacles erected by this Government. After asking 2 questions on this matter of the Minister representing the Minister for Education, I received an inane reply that the Government did not have any time to talk to the people in the State. It would not have taken a great deal of time to talk to the people in the State. It would not have taken a great deal of time to implement some of other available recommendations that could have been put into effect very quickly. 
Let us look at some of the specific recommendations of the Committee. In chapter 2 of the report the Committee recommends that the incidence of learning difficulties among Australian school children should be determined at regular intervals by a nation-wide survey based on similar principles to the ACER study on 'Literacy and Numeracy in Australian Schools'. It states that the survey should be developed so that it will provide information on an assessment of the comparative performance of school systems and schools to establish whether, historically, standards are improving or declining and to determine the comparative performance of Australian schooling with schooling in comparative countries. The report goes on to state that an organisation such as the ACER should be funded by the Australian Government to conduct the survey and that further funds should be provided through the ERDC to enable research to aid in the development of survey techniques. This is not a radical approach; it would simply find out more about the problem we are trying to solve by using apparatus that is already established 
Chapter 3 of the report goes on to propose cooperation between the States and the Australian Government. For God's sake, do we not need it? 
It proposes amendments to the legislation of some States which denies the responsibility of education departments to provide educational services to handicapped children. It states that education departments should provide such services. The Committee suggests that funding for special education should be undertaken, as far as possible, through recurrent grants programs. As can be seen, this Select Committee went deeply into the subject and came up with recommendations on a very broad front to tackle the problems of literacy and to make life more fruitful for a vast number of people who at the moment just do not make the grade. 
One of the latter chapters of the report deals with teacher education. The Committee has made recommendations which provide for integrated activity by a number of existing institutions. These proposals involve interaction between State departments of education and teacher organisations, the Australian Universities Commission and the Advanced Education Commission, and teacher training institutions. One would have thought that on an important issue such as this the very least the Government could have done at this stage would have been to set the wheels in motion. If they have done so, the Opposition can only be agreeably surprised that there has been any movement at all. If they have not, we can only say that the delay in adopting the recommendations of the report is unforgivable. The longer the delay the greater the number of children there will be whose futures are blighted and whose development will be stunted. Politicians should believe- many very likely do believe- that the way is open for parties to speak out and to make clear whether there is a place for 'the right to read' in their platforms. 
There needs to be room for that in political platforms to cover all the issues that are contained in the report. It is a very good report. It is well researched and clearly set out. It provides a blueprint for what the Opposition believes is a very desirable 'alliance for literacy'. Let me conclude by once again quoting from the general conclusion of the Committee in the foreword to its report. It states: 
It should be the aim of our educational system to bring every person to a level where he can be at least a functional member of society. We believe that this objective would be shared by most Australians. 
Let me say that every member of the Opposition shares this objective. It hopes that every member of the Parliament supports that objective and that there will be no further delays in implementing the recommendations of this most vital report. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice: 
What persons are presently eligible to migrate to Australia as refugees. 
What are the procedures adopted in their processing, and what are the criteria used to determine eligibility as a refugee. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice: 
In which overseas posts are there officers of his Department 
) How many officers of the Department are in each post, and what are their duties. 
What are the geographical responsibilities of each post. 
How many officers of the Department overseas are fluent in the language of the country or area in which they work, not including countries where English is the native language. 
How many locally engaged staff work in each migration section in each overseas post, and what are their duties. 
What were the workloads of each post, during each of the last 10 financial years, in terms of (a) migrant applications: (i) received (sponsored and direct), (ii) interviewed, 
accepted, (iv) rejected, and reasons for rejection, (v) deferred, and reasons for deferral, (vi) visas issued and (vii) the number of persons who travelled to Australia all in terms of the number of cases and persons, including the number of assisted and unassisted passages, (b) temporary residence applications, and types of temporary residence applied for, e.g. student work, sport, etc: (i) received (sponsored and direct), (ii) interviewed, (iii) accepted, (iv) rejected, and reasons for rejection, (v) deferred, and reasons for deferral, ( vi) visas issued and (vii) the number of persons who travelled to Australia, all in terms of the number of cases and persons, (c) visitor applications: (i) received, (ii) interviewed, (iii) accepted, (iv) rejected, and the reasons for rejection, (v) deferral, and the reasons for deferral, (vi) visas issued and (vii) the number of persons who travelled to Australia, all in terms of the number of cases and persons, (d) migrant re-entry applications: (i) received, (ii) accepted and (in) rejected, and reasons for rejection, (e) passports and documents of identity issued, (0 applications for citizenship: (i) received, (ii) granted and (iii) refused, and reasons for refusal, (g) publicity undertaken, indicating the type and time involved, (h) research into local conditions in industry and commerce and social conditions, and the number of research papers and position papers written, apart from monthly reports, (i) liaison with local authorities and with other embassies and (j) other work. 
In which post are there (a) no officers of his Department or (b) no Australian based officers and, in the latter cases, who acts for the Department in these areas. 
8 ) What are the workloads of the post in part ( 7 ) in terms of paragraphs (a) to (k) of part (6). 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs: 
1 ) Who are the present members of the Australian Population and Immigration Council. 
When was it reconstituted. 
How many committees of the Council have been set up, and what are their titles and areas of responsibiUty. 
Who are the members of each of these committees. 
How many times has (a) the Council and (b) each committee met since the Council 's reconstitution. 
How many times has each member of (a) the Council and (b) each committee been present at such meetings. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) What applications for Commonwealth assistance have been received in respect of Exhibition High School, formerly Fitzroy Girls High School, in each of the years 1973, 1974, 1975 and 1976. 
Is this school considered to be one of the disadvantaged schools by the Victorian education authorities and the Schools Commission. 
Which applications have been accepted and funded, and which applications have been rejected for funding, and for what reasons. 
What is the proportion of children receiving financial assistance from Commonwealth revenue sources and what is the proportion of students of the relevant age receiving such assistance generally for the electoral division of Melbourne. 
What special provision is made at the school to provide for the needs of ethnic communities and low income sections of the population, indicating which programs have been funded relating to the innovations and maintenance schemes. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to the statement made by the Minister on 6 October 1 976 reviewing student assistance schemes, did the Minister state on that occasion that eligibility for independent status under the Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme on the grounds of 2 years' self-support will be limited to those students who have been full ii-me in the workforce, or registered as unemployed. 
If so, does this mean that those students who, during their 2 years self-support, spent some of that period travelling on the money so earned, will no longer be considered eligible. 
If so, is the Government (a) denying certain people the right to take a holiday or broaden their outlook by travel and (b) discriminating against the very people it purports to support, those with initiative and a willingness to work hard, who are being denied the right to enjoy the fruits of their hard work without jeopardising their educational prospects. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Of the 30 Chileans who are currently illegally resident in Australia and who have been served deportation orders, how many have been apprehended. 
Does the Government intend to apprehend those who are not currently in custody. If so, when is this action expected to take place. 
Has the Government sought or received information from Amnesty International as to the likely fate of any Chileans deported to Chile. 
Can he say how many other countries have deported illegally resident Chileans, and how many are in the process of doing so. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) What are the names and ages of the 30 Chileans who have currently been served deportation orders. 
When did they first enter Australia in each case. 
What reason is being given for the deportations in each case. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) How many departmental officers were involved in the raids on Children of God communes on 29 November 1 976. 
What was the full cost of the operation. 
How many people were interviewed during the raids. 
How many separate communes were raided, and where are these communes located. 
In what capacity was a representative of the press present in one of these raids in Western Australia. 
Did the raids take place with his full knowledge and approval. 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Capital Territory. Has the Islamic Society of the Australian Capital Territory been refused permission to build extensions to the Canberra mosque at Yarralumla? Did the Minister take this decision on the advice of his Department? What reasons has he given for the decision? Is he aware that the Australian Federation of Islamic Councils is deeply concerned by the decision and that it is regarded by some Muslims as an act of discrimination against the Islamic faith? 
I claim to have been misrepresented,  Mr Speaker. 
-It is in much the same terms as was the case with the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating). 
On the same subject. 
I do. 
In the same publication to which the honourable member for Blaxland referred, the following was stated: 
Despite the constant mutterings of senators Brown and Melzer while forum members were addressing the committee', the IPR letter states, 'we have had favourable comments back from other committee members including Ted Innes . . . 
I say unequivocally that this statement is irresponsible and mischievous. It could do me a great deal of personal harm as from a long way back I have been an opponent of uranium mining. I do not agree with the proposition put in the Labor Caucus by my colleague. I am opposed to uranium mining but the inference in this publication is that I adopt the opposite attitude. I have never spoken to anybody from International Public Relations. I never have been lobbied on this issue, nor do I think it probable that people would take the trouble to lobby me about it. My views are well known in that area. I think the report is irresponsible. Probably the explanation I have given will clear the situation. 
-I hope the publishers of the  Nation Review  will afford me the same opportunity as they afforded my colleague. 
-In October 1976 I rose in this House to deplore the plight of Lebanese refugees stranded in Nicosia and other points around the Mediterranean. I rise in March 1977, almost 5 months later, again to deplore the plight of these benighted people and to condemn the Government in the strongest terms for its attitude towards them. In the meantime the Government has compounded its guilt for the injury it has done to these people. Many of those of whom I spoke on the last occasion are still there. They are victims of despair and hopelessness because the Government will not do those simple things which the Lebanese people in Australia cry out for it to do. Leaders of the Lebanese community in Australia know the gravity of the situation and have told me many harrowing tales of their countrymen, their relatives, who have been stuck in Nicosia for months sustained only by what Australian Lebanese are able to send them. The Lebanese here have had to go heavily into debt to raise the thousands of dollars necessary to keep their relatives in Nicosia from penury and destitution. 
I have recently returned from Nicosia. The proof that these stories are true is there for anyone to see. Hundreds of the hopeless can be seen milling around the immigration office where our immigration officers do their best to cope with the mess that this Government has created. I have already outlined to the House the events of last year and I do not intend to go over that ground again. It is necessary to refer to one thing that the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  did last year which was not necessarily wrong in principle but which was disastrous in the effect that it has had in our handling of the Lebanese refugee situation. It will be remembered that the Minister relaxed the entry criteria to allow members of the extended Lebanese family to come to Australia with maximum speed and minimum discomfort. This was not a bad thing in itself but a disaster given the circumstances at the time. In the first place the Minister obviously had no conception of what Lebanese regard as an extended family- a concept which goes well beyond the Australian understanding of members of the immediate family circle. In the second place there were hundreds of people already in Nicosia and other 
E laces whose applications for entry to Australia ad not been processed. Their chances of having the applications processed were greatly diminished by the Minister's actions. 
The result of what the Minister did was a flood of Lebanese into Cyprus and other places which aggravated in particular the situation in Cyprus and made the task of overworked immigration officers even more difficult. Many of the people already in Cyprus were category A immigrants, that is, mothers, fathers or dependent children of Lebanese people living in Australia. They left Lebanon and went to Cyprus and other centres on the understanding that they would be coming on to Australia once they had satisfactorily passed medical and character checks. They went to Cyprus on the understanding that they would be there for two or three weeks only before they were approved to join their families in Australia. For many the waiting period has been three or four months and for some it has been six or seven months and more. There are now arrangements for people to go back to the immigration office in Nicosia as late as 3 April this year. These people have left, or sold up, their assets in Lebanon. They survive in Cyprus on what their relatives in Australia are able to send them. I can produce evidence in the form of currency receipts from a range of people to indicate the amount of money that has been sent. In particular one man has sent more than $5,000 to a relative in Cyprus. The man sending the money is not a rich man, nor is his case uncommon. He is worried because, as most of us would, he finds the burden of supporting a family here and dependants overseas an overwhelming load to carry. Many have paid out much more. The total needed to sustain Lebanese refugees runs into millions of dollars. 
It is true that many hundreds of category B refugees- brothers and sisters and others who fall into that category of Australian Lebanesecame to Australia in the first heady days of the relaxed entry criteria when this Government was trying to demonstrate that it had the right approach to the refugee problem. Good luck to those who came and to the relatives who sponsored them, but in the process many hundreds of others were disappointed. Many of these people left their homes and possessions because they had faith in what this Government had led them to believe, and their faith was sadly misplaced. Of course not only the Lebanese in Australia have found their faith misplaced. That is the first part of this lamentable story. Hundreds and hundreds of people had their hopes raised only to be cruelly dashed. They face the alternatives of continuing to subsist on Cyprus against the day when the Government here will stop bungling and bring them to Australia or of being forced to return to Lebanon to blighted and uncertain futures. The price of that bungling is the despair of the refugees and the heavy financial burden on the Lebanese community in Australia. 
A second part of the story is connected with the first and again involves what amounts to a false pretence on the part of this Government. In the early days of relaxed criteria and the window dressing by the Minister, many Lebanese came to Australia on the strength of quickly processed medical checkups. In case anyone thinks I am using the tragedy of the dispossessed and desolate people to make political capital let me put to the House what has been put to me by members of the Lebanese community. I refer to a signed document which I will table if needs be. I sent a copy of it to the Minister some weeks ago. I have never received a reply. It puts certain points and no reasonable, humane man could say that the members of the Lebanese community are asking for anything excessive. They ask that immediate steps be taken by the Australian Government to re-establish the Australian embassy in Lebanon so that all new nominations may be dealt with from an embassy in that country. Due to circumstances beyond their control many people are being forced to return to that country because they cannot afford to stay in Cyprus. They run out of money and then return to Lebanon without their goods and chattels. 
The members of the Lebanese community ask that the present policy which excludes a total family from emigrating to Australia where one member fails the medical examination be altered so that only the seriously medically unfit members may be excluded. They ask that the applications of large numbers of Lebanese presently stranded in Nicosia be processed as a matter of urgency so that those wishing to emigrate to Australia may do so immediately. The Lebanese community here regards this matter as one of extreme urgency, as it would relieve the suffering of the refugees and would lift from their relatives the burden of having to pay the huge cost of supporting them in Cyprus. The Lebanese community in Australia is understandably disturbed and frustrated by the Australian response to the refugee problem. The reopening of the embassy is of the utmost importance, because clearly it would help Australian officers to assess the applicants on the spot. It would speed up the processing procedures.  Major powers  are now operating embassies at Beirut. The explanation I got for our embassy not being reopened was that the Canadians are not there. What has that to do with the situation? There should be no inhibition on Australia reopening its post there. 
There is a whole range of issues to which I would like to refer, but it is clear that I have not the time to do so. It is absolutely necessary that even now the Government reinforce the staff of the immigration post at Nicosia. What is the situation? The Government is now looking at staff ceiling levels. When I was at Nicosia just a fortnight or so ago, literally hundreds of people were nulling around the immigration office, standing there like cattle, and being processed at a rate that was deplorable. That was not the fault of the staff at that post They have done a magnificent job. I have already referred to that. The man whom the Government sent to Damascus ought to have been awarded the Victoria Cross. There was a failure to take advantage of the situation or of the opportunities there. The expectancies of people were raised. Yet the Government did not ave the capacity nor the machinery to handle the situation. As I have said, the staff have worked diligently and under the most difficult conditions to cope with the situation, which is impossible given the number of distressed refugees. I have seen the desperate situation. I once again urge the Minister to do something about it. 
There was a question of refusal on medical grounds. The Minister can go to the leaders of the Lebanese community in Australia to check these facts. He has probably had some contact with them. They have certainly contacted me and expressed their disappointment in the strongest terms. Mild heart murmurs, diabetes and a host of other chronic conditions which pose no threat to anyone other than the sufferer are now given as sufficient reasons for rejection on medical grounds. It has been suggested by my informants in the community that the reasons for rejection are so vague that people suspect that they have been turned down because they are too fat, they are too thin or they do not wash behind their ears. There must be a reason for the huge difference between virtually no rejections on medical grounds between August and December of last year and the present high incidence of rejections. The Minister's adviser shakes his head.  His  information might differ from some of the information and evidence that I have. There must be a reason for this huge difference. As far as I am concerned, this issue is of maximum importance. Committees were set up in the latter part of last year. I should refer quickly again to the high incidence of rejections since that time. There must be some explanation. It is not enough to say that the rejections are based on the declining health of those people who are stranded in Nicosia. The Government set up immigration committees to deal with category A applicants alone. Yet from what I can ascertain these committees are very disturbed, on the one hand, at the length of time which refugees have had to languish in places such as Nicosia and, on the other hand, at the current extraordinarily large number of rejections on medical grounds. If there is any real doubt about that matter, approach the Lebanese community and ask them. I ask for permission to incorporate in  Hansard  a letter from the Lebanese community to me. 
-The Minister is not dealing with applications for dog licences. He is dealing with people. He is dealing with the relatives of Australian citizens who form a significant ethnic group in Australia and who have made an important social, cultural and commercial contribution to Australian society for generations. These refugees should not be allowed to languish on Cyprus or anywhere else because Australia is too niggardly to send more immigration officers or more medical officers to Nicosia. Medical reports are now being sent back to Australia for processing. When we had a medical person in the task force, they were processed there. 
Lebanese people in Australia should not have to continue to bear the intolerable financial burden of sustaining the people on Cyprus. It is monstrous that people should have been abandoned for up to 6 or 7 months, in a strange land, when everything they had been told led them to believe that they would be on their way to Australia and the company of their relatives within 2 or 3 weeks of leaving their homeland. At one other post, Athens, it seems that the processing can be expedited in another way. The Minister's adviser might be able to give him an explanation which he can give to the House. Misunderstanding and bungling have characterised this Government's handling of the Lebanese refugee situation. The Government must bear a heavy responsibility because Australia's international reputation, as well as the lives of hundreds of people, are involved in a speedy solution to this problem. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. He will be aware that the then Minister for Immigration,  Mr Grassby,  initiated preparation of the pamphlet entitled 'The Newcomer and the Law'.  Mr Speaker,  I ask you to bear with me for one moment so that I can clarify the direction of the question. Since that time the section of the Department of Social Security which dealt with the production of such material has been transferred to the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. So there is a lapse of time. I put that to the Minister. He could consider that in his answer. 
It is now 7 years since the McMahon Government commissioned the National Population Inquiry and a little over 12 months since the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  announced that the Australian Population and Immigration Council would prepare a Green Paper to stimulate public debate about Australia's population and immigration policies. The Opposition welcomes the tabling of this document and commends the Council for its industry in preparing this discussion paper. It is pleasing to see the Government tabling reports and inviting public discussion on important social issues, in contrast to its past obsession with secrecy and its record of hasty and ill-considered policy decisions. Indicative of this policy, the Government's inefficient and  ad  /deprocedures in determining immigration quotas are a perfect example. The issue and the debate cannot be narrowed to the diametrically opposed proponents of zero population growth and the open door attitude. In fact the dynamics of population are interwoven with the organisation of the economy, the provision of public services, the use of land and resources and the enhancement of the quality of urban and rural life. 
People should be the first consideration in formulating policies. The aim should be to ensure economic and social justice for all members of the community, whatever their origins; to reduce or eliminate inequalities of opportunity between social groups; and to protect and enhance the social and physical environment. Short term expediency must not be allowed to imperil the quality of life of future generations. Australia's population and immigration policies are vital issues of concern to every Australian. These policies will shape the nature of Australian society to the year 2000. The quality of life we enjoy, the structure, the efficiency of our manufacturing industries, the distribution of and the demand for welfare services, the role that Australia will play as a member of the international community- in short, Australia's population policies-are central to the population decisions of government. 
It is appropriate that in this period of record unemployment and deepening economic recession we reassess our immigration policies and the options for the growth and development of Australia's population. Unfortunately, the Minister's statement fails to grasp the opportunity that this watershed in Australia's history provides. The Parliament and the public might have expected the Minister's statement to reflect the importance and magnitude of the issues involved, an analysis of Australia's past immigration policies, some assessment of the recommendations of the National Population Inquiry, a guide to the major issues identified by the Green Paper. All that the Minister can offer is a collection of time worn cliches and sweeping generalisations that will not satisfy the Australian community nor serve the interests of future generations of Australians- a statement that reflects the bankruptcy of this Government, its lack of vision, initiative and insight. 
The statement's real danger is not in its omissions, regrettable though they may be, but in its calculated distortions that can be designed only to promote narrow, sectional interests at the expense of a reasoned and rational population policy. A recurrent theme in the statement is the relationship between economic growth and the level of immigration. The Minister attempts to imply that Australia's future prosperity depends on high levels of immigration comparable with those of the post-war period being maintained for the next 30 years. However, he fails to examine the context in which these policies were developed and their relevance to current demographic patterns and the state of the economy. Australia enjoyed rapid economic growth in the 1950s and 1960s, and our immigration policies substantially assisted and promoted this development. 
However, the conditions in which this policy was implemented were vastly different from those facing the nation today. The Depression and the Second World War had a profound effect on the birth rate which, by the late 1940s, was evidenced by falling numbers of recruits to the work force. For example, in 1961 the number of Australians aged between 25 and 29 years was 77 000 fewer than in 1967. Similarly, the number aged between 10 and 14 years in 1961 was 90 000 fewer than the number in 1933. Without a substantial immigration program, shortages of labour would have resulted from this reduced recruitment to the work force and would have restrained Australia's economic growth in the post-war period. Of course this policy_ was not without its social and economic costs. The Committee of Economic Inquiry chaired by  Dr J.  Vernon reported in 1965 that one of the major costs of Australian immigration policy was the diversion of capital from investment to improved industrial productivity, to the provision of roads, houses, schools and other services for our increased population. The Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee)  perhaps would agree that Australia is still paying the price of this diversion in our low rate of productivity in the manufacturing sector when compared with other western nations. 
The Vernon report also noted that immigration tended to raise the level of imports in the medium term without appreciably raising exports and leads to overcrowding and environmental deterioration of the cities. I have been persistently saying in our community that it is not good enough to manipulate the migration program to meet the needs of the economy. That is the doctrine of factory fodder which I believe is favoured by this Government. It is a doctrine that leaves the great majority of ethnic communities at the mercy of the whim of the economy. It is a  laissez-faire  approach- an approach which no doubt suits this Government by preserving the sanctity of the market place. 
Let me put the opposite view, the view that the economy must be manipulated to suit the needs of the population. I will not put it in my own words but in the words of the summary of and comment on the report of the United States Commission on Population Growth and the American Future. I remind honourable members the the work of this Commission began with the charge 'Whether man's response to that challenge will be cause for pride or despair in the year 2000 will depend very much on what we do today'. The Commission reported: 
Concern for social justice and social welfare and respect for human freedom are fundamental to American values. To solve population problems at the expense of those values would be an unacceptable victory. 
I believe we ought to be looking at this matter in the same light. The report continued: 
The Commission maintained that we should concern ourselves with improving the quality of life for all Americans rather than merely adding more Americans. And unfortunately, for many of our citizens that quality of life is still defined only as enough food, clothing and shelter. All human beings need a sense of sharing, and the opportunity to develop their individual potentialities. 
I can find nothing in the Minister's statement and nothing in the Green Paper dealing with the fundamental questions that were dealt with by the United States Commission. These questions are: Does a healthy economy require a growing population? Would a slower rate of population growth help or hurt business and the workers' position in the economy? What would be the consequences for most people if population growth approached zero? They are all questions to be asked and answered. They are not posed by the Minister; they are not posed by the Green Paper; and they are not posed by the inquiry. There ought to be an inquiry, an inquiry established on proper grounds, similar to that of the United States Commission. On page 63 of the Green Paper this matter is raised in passing under the heading of 'General Issues'. But the following statement is made at page 64 of the Green Paper: 
The provision of a migration program in relation to the progress of the economy must be judged in relation to other facets and goals of economic policy. If future development be treated as resting upon the expansion of minerals and other extractive industries, then there will be less emphasis than previously on the rapid growth of the workforce to sustain increased output from manufacturing, building and service industries . . . 
Read the report, if you are capable of doing so. The Green Paper continued: 
Such an Australian development strategy would give impetus to a migration policy based on the quality of the intake rather than its size. 
That argument proceeds on the basis that in the economy 'more' is 'better'. It is a factory fodder approach, and honourable members well know the awful consequences in their electorates of the present Government's manipulation of the economy. 
Let me now turn to the Canadian experience. Part of the Green Paper referred to the Canadian experience. Under the heading "The Effect of Immigration on Populations' the Green Paper stated: 
Just as in Australia, the Canadians have realised that immigration exercises a pervasive influence on the whole of the political and cultural evolution of the national life. It enters into the question of quality of life in the cities, and the provision of public services, the organisation of the economy, the planning of land use and resources, the protection of the environment, and the need to overcome disparities and discrimination. What they have also realised is that even though decisions made at national, provincial or municipal level have an effect on the demographic make-up (and sometimes those decisions are made inadvertently) the real solution lies only in a set of national policies. 
These are national policies determined on proper and adequate information gleaned out of a proper and substantial inquiry. 
Equated with a previous Australian slogan of 'Populate or Perish' are a whole series of earlier arguments in favour of immigration which are familiar to Australians. There is a need to open new lands of vast resources to agriculture and commerce, the development of a population base adequate to sustain a vigorous and diversifying economy, and the forging of a separate national entity. The Canadian Green Paper on this subject questions the validity of these assumptions in a modern industrialised and increasingly urbanised society, it calls them ' dubious Mt states: 
Canada, tike most advanced nations, counts the cost of more people in terms of congested metropolitan areas, housing shortages, pressures on arable land, damage to the environment- in short, the familiar catalogue of problems with which most prosperous and sophisticated societies are currently endeavouring to cope . . . but when all the arguments are sifted it would probably be a not unfair assessment of our understanding of the economic consequences of higher against lower population for a country in Canada's present position to conclude that the evidence in favour of higher rates is uncertain. Furthermore, the hidden costs that they entail in terms of social strains and the impairment of the quality of life, admittedly extremely difficult to qualify, have thus far tended to be neglected in expert appraisals. 
The Canadian Green Paper is scathing in referring to the view that the competitiveness of Canadian industry would benefit from a larger domestic market, a major factor in post war immigration, and one on which much of the 1966 immigraton policies were based. In comparison with the United States, even a three-fold expansion of population would have a negligible effect in reducing the per capita income differences between the 2 countries. Canadian industry, says the Green Paper, must look to an expanding international market. 
So I return to my original statement. We must start off with a concept of having all these areas that are relevant to Australia considered by such an inquiry. My original statement was that we must manipulate the economy to meet the needs of population; we must not manipulate the population to meet the needs of the economy. But the Minister has another attitude. He advocates a return to higher levels of migration with its associated costs. A question was asked on this subject this afternoon. Honourable members have heard statements made by the Minister over the last few days on which he bases that sort of notion. We might anticipate that Australia is facing acute labour shortages in the near future that would justify such a policy. It is unfortunate that the National Population Inquiry is equivocal on this issue even though future labour shortages are implied in its first report. The Inquiry is confused as to when this shortage will arise and its probable magnitude. In chapter one of the report Professor Borrie observed that 'Australia has a relatively young population that will ensure a steady input to the labour force for some years ahead'. The report went on to state 'that whatever happens in terms of fertility changes at the moment, rising inputs to the labour force are assured from natural increase alone until at least 1990'. In chapter eight of the report these categorical statements are contradicted in the following terms: ... the slowing down and then decline in the new entrants to the workforce is now certain to occur within fifteen years. 
The green paper fortunately provides us with some guidance in this dilemma when it reports that labour shortages could occur in the 1990s. The Australian Bureau of Statistics in its population projections for the period 1977 to the year 2001 also supports this contention. The Bureau predicts that even without immigration the age group IS to 19, from which most of the new entrants to the work force are drawn, will exceed the level of present years peaking in 1978 and again in 1988. 
In other words, if we accept the ABS statistics and the Green Paper's findings, there is unlikely to be a labour shortage in Australia for at least 25 years. I refer honourable members to  Dr Birrell's  paper on the very vexed question of job availability for the future.  Dr Birrell  from the Sociology Department of the Monash University was critical of the decision of the Liberal Government to increase the intake from 50 000 to 70 000 in 1976-77. 1 shall quote from a paper by  Dr Birrell  on job availability. He is critical of the migration program and the ideological commitments of the Liberal Party in pursuing population growth policies. He calculates that a total of between 850 000 and 900 000 over and above those currently employed can be expected to be looking for jobs between now and 1981. Having examined employment prospects in the Government, manufacturing and tertiary areas, he says: 
The overall conclusion has to be that when taking all 3 employment sectors into account there is no prospect of job creation in Australia sufficient to absorb the 900 000 potential workers available between 1976 and 1981 and every prospect of unemployment worsening. 
That statement probably supports the contention that between 200 000 and 600 000 will be the fluctuating level of unemployment. Without some organisation within the economy, there is not much hope of getting the figure below that. If births in the current period, the source of new entrants to the work force in the 1990s, fall below expectations there will Be ample time to adjust the demands of the work force before the 1990s. There is no justification for a massive intake of migrants in the near future in order to avoid labour shortages and maintain our rate of economic growth. In fact there is every reason to believe that an increased immigration program would aggravate Australia's unemployment problem in the short term, particularly amongst the young. In common with all advanced Western countries, unemployment rates among young people in Australia have increased much more rapidly than adult unemployment since the mid-1960s. Currently nearly 40 per cent of the total unemployed are persons under the age of 20 years, even though this group comprises only 12 per cent of the labour force.  Mr Peter  Kirby, First Assistant Secretary of the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations, recently concluded that unemployment among the young is not simply a result of the current general deficiency in labour demand. It can be expected to persist irrespective of economic recovery. These young people are generally unskilled in a labour market that is increasingly looking for skilled and semi-skilled workers. 
Humanity demands that we overhaul our antiquated technical and further education system so that the many unskilled Australians presently unemployed are given the opportunity to join the work force. Commonsense would suggest that retraining programs should be implemented before we recruit skilled or semi-skilled migrants. The Vernon inquiry noted that if a shortage of labour leads to an increase in the total immigration program this would be a more costly source of skill than to train the additional labour in Australia. For too long Australia's immigration policies, particularly the recruitment of skilled labour, has been a substitute for technical education programs designed to train and utilise Australian labour more effectively. This waste of human resources of our nation must not be allowed to continue. 
The Minister has not only grossly distorted the future demand for labour. His statement quite deliberately attempted to create the impression that Australia faces negative population growth in the short term and a decline in total population in the absence of a substantial immigration program. He said: 
Unless there is an increase in the birth rate, we will be approaching a situation where the numbers of births and deaths will be equal and, in the absence of an immigration gain, Australia will experience zero population growth. 
Nothing could be further from the truth. If the Minister or his staff had bothered to examine the Green Paper they would have read the following statement on page 13, which suggests we will enjoy continued population growth well into the next century: 
Past high levels of fertility and the input into the population of many thousands of young adults through immigration have produced an age structure with high proportions in the young child-bearing ages. This will provide an impetus to growth for some time in the future; even a considerable further fall in fertility will not result in births falling below deaths at least until past the end of the century. 
The Bureau of Statistics' projections of population growth also directly contradict the Minister's assertions about population growth. The Bureau predicts that Australia's population will grow at a rate of not less than 5 per cent for the next 25 years to a total of 16 million persons in 200 1 . A restricted intake of immigrants of 40 000 persons per annum would boost this growth to a total population of 1 7.5 million persons by 200 1 . All the evidence suggests that Australia's population will continue to grow strongly in the immediate future. The Minister was so intent, however, on promoting growth for growth 's sake that he stooped to misrepresenting the movements of Australians and overseas visitors into and out of this country in order to build a picture of a declining population. He pointed out that Australia actually sustained a net loss of 8000 in total movements into and out of the country in 1975. He conveniently omitted the figures for the January to September quarters of 1976, which report a net gain in overseas movements of 21 370 persons and point to the seasonal nature of the population fluctuations. The Minister cannot escape the conclusions of his own advisory council. Australia is not facing an imminent shortage of labour in the short to medium term, nor are we approaching zero population growth. 
Having been denied these justifications for a high rate of immigration, the Minister returned to the empty continent syndrome and implied that we must utilise our superabundant natural resources or have them taken from us. In fact he went even further than this when he asserted: 
The resource constraints upon our options are virtually non-existent in the foreseeable future. 
By any definition this claim is patently absurb unless the Minister expects a dramatic drop in our standard of living to accommodate a much higher level of population than we presently enjoy. Australia and the world face real shortages of energy, food and water in the forseeable future unless our utilisation of these resources falls far short of expected demand. If forecasts made by energy experts are anywhere near correct, by 1985 Australia will be using two to three times its current annual consumption of petroleum, one and a half to two times the present consumption of coal and more than five times the present annual consumption of natural gas. Australia, with its vast coal and uranium deposits, is not facing any shortage of electrical energy. But such energy forms will not be a substitute for the liquid hydro-carbons which at present supply over 77 per cent of our annual energy requirements. 
The national population inquiry, after considering evidence from the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, admitted that there are severe constraints on crop production and that further increases in home consumption will be at the expense of exports. In other words, a substantially increased Australian population would dramatically curtail our role as an exporter of already scarce food grains to the world's hungry millions. This is not only true for crop production. It is widely recognised that because of higher standards of living in the industrial Western nations even small increases in population contribute to demand at a much greater rate than increases in population in less developed countries. 
Even if Australia enjoyed unlimited natural resources as the Minister claims, there are very real environmental constraints on the development of our rural and urban cities. The Green Paper notes that the rate of growth of the larger cities in Australia since World War II has made it difficult for public authorities to keep up with the demand for urban services. The backlog has been most serious for sewerage services. Yet at the same time as advocating increases in Australia's migration program the Government by its own actions has greatly reduced the cities' ability to absorb new settlers because of the cuts in capital expenditure, especially for sewerage programs. The Government has all but abandoned the growth centres at Bathurst and Albury-Wodonga, so one can only guess as to how these new migrants will be accommodated. 
If Australia adopts a high intake immigration policy in the future it will stand alone amongst the industrialised nations with which we usually compare ourselves. In 1972 the United States Population Commission reported:  . . . after 2 years of concentrated effort we have concluded that no substantial benefits would result from continued growth of the nation's population . . . beyond the level to which we are already committed. 
The Commission went on to state that 'population policy is no substitute for social, economic and environmental policy'. A series of Canadian Green Papers also questioned the value and impact of significant levels of immigration in the future. Like Australia, Canada is not faced with a spiralling population but is faced with mounting pressures arising from urban congestion, regional imbalances and depopulation in some areas and an undesirable rate of growth in others. Canada, like most advanced nations, counts the cost of more people in terms of congested metropolitan areas. It needs to utilise its own labour force more effectively before importing migrant skills. 
An inter-departmental committee on population policy guidelines reported to the New Zealand Government that it should 'consider having developing programs for training and retraining New Zealand residents to fill recognised labour shortages, to reduce the requirement for the recruitment of skilled labour from overseas'. The New Zealand inquiry went on to count the cost of increased population and immigration and their impact on the environment. The Government and the nation must carefully consider this overwhelming body of overseas evidence that suggests that Australia should carefully re-assess its past immigration programs before extending them to our pop11lation policy for the year 2000. 
I again wish to commend the Australian Population and Immigration Council for its work in preparing this Green Paper, but I also intend to offer what I hope will be viewed as constructive criticism of the structure and functioning of the Council. Population policy is a central issue of paramount importance to the nation. Our population policies will determine the nature of Australian society in the year 2000 just as our past immigration programs have changed Australia over the last 30 years. Our future population policies must be founded on the most accurate and reliable information available and must be developed on a basis of general community consensus rather than on narrow political platforms. The Minister's Department has provided the bulk of the policy advice that the Council has considered but I believe that the Council should be more representative of people in the community. The dispensing of services at community level is a two-way factor in considering the future destiny of those whom we have brought here. 
Before any informed decision can be made about Australia's immigration policies the Government and the Parliament must be supplied with accurate population statistics and with adequate and up-to-date information about our present demographic patterns and the distribution of our population. It is therefore imperative that the Government and the Minister ensure that the 1976 census results are processed immediately and without their accuracy being compromised by cuts in Government expenditure. How can the Government seek to stimulate public debate on this important social issue if it withholds the information that is available from the census? I challenge the Minister to produce that information. The Green Paper, whilst containing some shortcomings, has relative value and subscribes something to the debate. I call on the Minister to initiate a national population inquiry along the lines of the Commission on Population Growth and American Future established by the United States Congress and appointed by  President  Nixon in 1970. The terms of reference of the inquiry could be similar to those of the American Population Commission. I believe that it is absolutely essential and a vital prerequisite before an objective, intelligent approach can be made to population policy in general and particularly immigration policy. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I rise this evening to point up once again the hypocrisy of the Government in the way in which it deals so blithely with migrant problems, particularly in some of the areas represented by honourable members on the Government side, who day after day pay lip service to what they say they do in the interests of the migrants in their community. The plight of the migrant children should be well known by now. Because of the confusion about teachers' qualifications, the bureaucracy, language difficulties and cultural peculiarities, time and time again we see migrant children discriminated against. The idiot from La Trobe smiles blithely when I talk about the things that are involved. 
-I withdraw.  His  attitude is the attitude that we have learnt to expect from individuals like him. The Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  goes on like a yahoo.  Mr Speaker,  I draw your attention to the gesticulations of the Minister. It shows his attitude to migrant children when he treats what I am saying as blithely as he does. 
The Victoria Teachers Union today issued a statement of which honourable members opposite should take note. The migrant English teaching programs in schools are being severely held back because of staff shortages. The reason is that the amount made available in the Budget by this Government for migrant education is down $ 10.7m. The direct result of that is that the children who are trying to put their backsides on 2 stools, who are losing their mother tongue, who are trying to learn the English language, and who cannot get a text book to be able to compete on an even basis with English-speaking children are discriminated against. Whilst our friends on the other side of the House may laugh their heads off, it is a fact that parents of the children concerned do not think it is terribly funny. They are very incensed about the attitude of this Government, which has cut the amount made available for educating migrant children in Australia in general. 
The Victorian Teachers Union points up this problem. Victoria began this year with 107 fewer migrant English teachers than in 1976. At this stage no replacements have been made by the Education Department but it has agreed to put on 50 more teachers. When there is a dearth of teachers this is an insult to the migrants and to the kiddies who go to Victorian schools. The Victorian Minister for Education must make a decision to fill all 107 positions. But the Victorian Government claims that the Federal Government is at fault. If one examines previous Budgets and associated documents, therein lies the story, because the allocation this year is down by $ 10.7m. The needs of migrant children will not be met unless the Victorian Government is able to provide the extra teachers. It is a disgrace that less can be done for migrant children in 1977 than was achieved last year. The acrosstheboard staffing ceilings applied by the Victorian Government have created the absurd situation where specialist staff is not replaced. Last year there were 863 migrant English teachers for primary, secondary and technical schools. The main shortage now is in primary schools where only 30 of the 81 vacancies are to be filled. 
I heard honourable members on the other side of the House tonight arguing for a migrant intake increase as though we had all necessary resources available to meet their various needs. The honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Shipton)  well knows that the investigation into specific learning difficulties in this country highlighted the necessity for having specialist teachers available to ensure that migrant children had opportunities equal to those of other children in this country. Here we have the absurd situation of the Federal Government paying lip service, through the great harangues we heard tonight, to the population policy inquiry report while on the other hand there is a cut in Budget expenditure which has relegated the migrants who are now here, and ignoring those who arrive in the near future, to second class citizens destined for the major part to spend the rest of their lives at the end of a pick and shovel. 
I rise as the seconder of the amendment, a very timely amendment at that. The speech that was imposed on  Her  Majesty the Queen to deliver at the opening of this Parliament was nothing short of a disgrace and reflects the shallow and irresponsible attitude of the Government. Regarding the remarks of the honourable member for Evans  (Mr Abel),  might I say that it is not the role of the Opposition to tell the Government how to get out of the mess that it has created. The Government will never get away again- the honourable member will be one of the people who will go by the board- with the array of broken promises that now decorate this Government 's wonderful effort. I remind the honourable member that the deficit is now $1 billion higher than when the Labor Party was in office. Further, the wage and salary earners are paying $ 1,800m more in pay-as-you-earn taxation. This is another great effort on the part of the Government. All the Government can do is scream, yell and rant and continue its policy of union bashing. The honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  rightly said this morning, when he resigned from the Liberal Party, that he could not take it any longer. He said that he could see that wage earners are the victims of this Government and that the Government is bashing the wage earners day after day to carry the responsibility of inflation 
The irresponsible contribution made by the honourable member for Evans was probably worse than any speech I have heard him make to date. The amendment which has been moved by the Opposition at least poses questions and highlights the weaknesses in the Speech delivered by  Her  Majesty on the occasion of the opening of the second session of the Thirtieth Parliament. 
I want to refer to a few matters that really go to the point of the failure of the Government to keep its promises, firstly, in the area of immigration and ethnic affairs which is the area of my responsibility. The Government has failed completely to meet the needs of migrants or of any other section of the Australian community. Although the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar),  in stating a policy on immigration and population, is laying the groundwork for bringing more migrants into this country, the Government cannot take adequate care of the people in the country at the present time. We all know that the Government loves migration. It is another matter whether it has any real regard for individual migrants and for ethnic communities and the difficulties they face in an increasingly difficult Australian society. We all know that the Government would like to see, say, 70 000 migrants come to Australia each year. That is a figure which has no regard for the present economic and employment situation in Australia and which certainly has no regard for the way in which we will see to their welfare once they get here. 
We know that the main rationale of the expansionist migrant policy of the Liberal-National Country parties over the years has been 'growth for growth's sake' and what they perceived as being an overwhelming need to stock the country's assembly lines. It had very little to do with the people themselves. It was largely based on the unacceptable principle of using migrants as cheap labour in unsatisfactory working conditions for the purpose of improving the economy. Even though times have changed drastically, with hundreds of thousands of people out of work, there has been no change of which I am aware in the Government's commitment to large scale immigration. If that is not the case then the Minister ought to declare at some time what is the Government's present policy. Whatever may be its strange attitudes to future immigration, or even to the future of Australia, the Government is demonstrably at fault in its attitudes to existing communities of people born overseas and the children of parents born overseas. 
When in government the Labor Party initiated programs to help these people. Certainly we did not do enough but we were working on significant new directions in migrant welfare and community relations when the present Government conned its way into office on the pretext that it could run everything much better. The programs that Labor started have been allowed to fall into disuse or to starve to death. The Migrant Community Resources Branch of the Department of Social Security is being dismantled. That was the real ethnic affairs branch of the 
Public Service and the only institution capable of developing specific programs for the migrant community. 
The Government is going through a public relations exercise of establishing concurrently 2 experimental migrant resource centres, one in Melbourne, which is to be operated under contract by the Australian Greek Welfare Society, and one in Sydney. Those centres are supposed to provide all sorts of services to migrants, to assist social workers and welfare officers, and to draw attention to the particular problems of ethnic communities and individual migrants requiring government action. That is all very well as far as it goes and it would be praiseworthy if it were not just another token effort to distract attention from the fact that the Government is doing very little to meet the real needs of migrants. 
The Government has also transferred the office of Commissioner for Community Relations, which Labor set up, into the area of the Attorney-General's Department where legalism is likely to become the order of the day rather than the compassionate, ombudsman type of operation which is necessary to deal with the real and continuing needs of migrants. We have seen that sort of thing happen before. It is turning the clock back. When the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission took on its new look, as it were, the emphasis was put on conciliation. That is the sort of principle on which the office of the Commissioner for Community Relations should operate rather than getting bogged down in a heap of legalism. While all the litigation is going on the individual is being discriminated against. That will continue to occur and he or she will suffer. 
Lip service is paid within the concept of community relations to the matters of community education and migrant education. There are plenty of advocates to be heard in favour of the notion that the total community should be educated into acceptance of diversity and multiculturalism. But where are the special funds which should be made available for that purpose? Where is there any precision in regard to what is needed to meet the fundamental needs of migrants, ethnic groups and many other groups of alienated Australian citizens? The tragedy of that position lies in the fact that many of these needs have been identified and reported on by a variety of investigating committees and inquiry groups, but little or no action has been taken. 
Let me give an example of the dire results of the failure to set up structures to meet a basic need of ethnic groups. I refer to the need for them to understand what they are getting themselves into. Seven or eight years ago citizens of Turkey were enticed here in sufficient numbers to constitute a recognisable ethnic group. They were Muslim. They were largely rural workers. They tended to form tightly-knit communities but they were diligent and thrifty, and they had an uncommon regard for the welfare of their children. In conformity with the attitude of the times they were placed in factory situationssituations which were entirely alien to them- in the big cities of Melbourne and Sydney. Many of them managed to accumulate some property and some savings because they worked hard and were careful with their money. However, they found that in the factory atmosphere and in their strange urban environment their culture was being destroyed. 
Many of them were looking for a way out. Many went to the Goulburn Valley area of Shepparton to pick tomatoes in their holidays during last year's season. They saw a way out- a rural environment in which they could bring up their families in their traditional way. It was at that point that their legitimate aspiration for a way of life appropriate to their needs, and their ignorance of the English language, contracts and legalisms, led them into a fatal mistake. They were persuaded by those who had something to gain that there was a living to be made from growing tomatoes in the Goulburn Valley outside the prevailing contract system operated by the canners. They were persuaded to that effect by the multinational canners who had much to gain because they were interested in creating a buyers' market and having surplus produce from which to choose. They were persuaded by the sellers of agricultural machinery that contracts could be obtained for them if they bought tractors, trucks and implements. They were talked into taking up tracts of land on leasehold at exorbitant annual rentals. About 100 families sold up their homes and moved into the Goulburn Valley to grow tomatoes. When harvesting time arrived they found themselves with nowhere to sell their crops. The promised contracts did not materialise. They are in a severe financial crisis, loaded with debts, unable to sell most of their crops and facing a return to the factory floorsthat is, if they could get their jobs back, which is very doubtful. 
It is all very well to say that they were mugs or, as some conservative party politicians in Victoria said, that they should not have allowed themselves to get into that position. But their basic problem, and the thing that led them into their present predicament, was that their knowledge of English was extremely limited. They had been given very little opportunity, even in the years that they had been in Australia, to learn English. Because their grasp of the language was slight, they had no chance of understanding the uncertain nature of the contracts, such as they were, that were offered to them. They had no chance of understanding the nature of the marketing of primary produce in Australia. They had no chance of realising that they were being made the tools of an implacable market society. 
The fault lies in the facilities that are available to ethnic groups in our society. Rather than trying to improve existing inadequate structures, the Government is bent on cutting them back, on reducing those facilities still further. It is the responsibility of the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs and of the Government to ensure that proper and adequate facilities are provided for the purpose of protecting those people who are brought out here in the first instance as factory fodder and then forced into a situation where they are at the mercy of the scavengers in this society. 
Instead of providing adequate facilities for their protection what we see now is a cutback for the purpose of making their positions even worse. The situation of the Turks can be repeated in other ethnic groups and in other communities. It is not good enough to say that times are tough. The problems of migrants rest at the community level where there should be migrant resource centres spread plentifully through the urban concentrations of various migrant peoples. There should be immediate legal assistance made available to them. The problem of migrants rests at the community level, as I indicated. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  and the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  and others on the Government front bench would not make the mistakes these Turks made. They are all men interested in the land and country matters but they would not make the same mistakes because they are educated. They have the facilities and the background. Of course, one in particular is even protected further by the superphosphate bounty. I wonder whether the Prime Minister really needs it. 
What I have related is just an example of what has been frequently pointed out- that overseas born residents are often ignorant of their rights in and the resources of the Australian community. Any conscientious person who has worked among migrants will tell you that the stresses common to all in our society are frequently aggravated because of the peculiar language and cultural differences of migrants. The plight of migrant children should be well known by now. Due to confusion in regard to teacher qualifications, as I said the other day, bureaucracy and indifference, a substantial number of children, many of them born in Australia, are receiving second class education which will condemn them and their children to being second class citizenry. The position of overseas born workers in the labour force is critical. The overseas born worker needs special education in the ways of achieving industrial justice. He needs special help in language study, especially when it reaches into crisis areas such as industrial safety. 
I turn now to the question of the failure of this Government despite a report and questions by the Opposition, to come to grips with the problems that are related in a report from a committee set up in the Parliament, the House of Representatives Select Committee on Specific Learning Difficulties. I am sure many honourable members of the House and members of the general community found the speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  to the Victorian State Council of the Liberal Party of Australia most enlightening. The Treasurer quite correctly stated that the Government has an obligation to give adequate financial support to groups in the community that are genuinely disadvantaged. However, when we examine the Government's legislation program as outlined in  Her  Majesty's Speech it is impossible to find one new initiative that will assist the many thousands of Australians who are in genuine need. Among the many members of the community who will suffer because of this Government's indifferent and callous approach to social justice are the many thousands of young Australians who suffer reading and learning difficulties. It is now some  Vh  years since the House appointed the Select Committee on Specific Learning Difficulties and still we have not committed the resources that are necessary to remove this blight from our nation. Surely a country as wealthy as Australia can afford to adopt the proposition that every child has a right to read. The Committee concluded: 
It should be the aim of our educational system to bring every person to a level where he can be at least a functional member of society. We believe that this objective would be shared by most Australians. 
Unfortunately it does not seem to be the objective or goal of the Treasurer of this Government. Instead of a reasoned debate about the most appropriate allocation of resources to our many social problems, all we hear are allegations of dole bludging, waste and extravagance. Instead of some indication that the Government will assist the many children and adults with learning difficulties the Treasurer offers the prospect of further massive reductions in social welfare expenditure. How often do honourable members opposite rise in their Party rooms to challenge the Government to attack this problem? If they did they would go the way of all flesh. They would be instructed to go and get back into their apples. It seems that the only subject dear to the hearts of Government backbenchers is an attack on the growing number of unemployed Australians. We heard the honourable member for Evans  (Mr Abel)  during his last speech paying lip service to and shedding crocodile tears about the poor devils who are out of work. But at the drop of a hat the attack is switched to the areas of unemployment by our friends on the Government front bench, worthily backed-up by the people behind them. 
Perhaps it is time that I refreshed the memory of Government supporters. It seems they have quickly forgotten the recommendations and findings of the Select Committee on which many of their colleagues served. The nationwide survey of literacy and numeracy in Australian schools carried out by the Australian Council for Educational Research found that 29 per cent of Australia's 10-year old children and 27 per cent of 14-year old children are unable to understand written material which is no more difficult than the textbooks and reference books they use in their classrooms. Up to 20 per cent of 14-year olds are unable to comprehend either the literal or inferential meaning of passages taken from daily newspapers. Between 15 per cent and 25 per cent of children are passing from primary school into secondary school and ultimately leaving school altogether without even acquiring an adequate mastery of the basic educational skills which they need in order to function successfully as citizens and as members of the work force. These figures are stark. 
There are 2 key elements in any successful attack on the problem of specific learning difficulties. They are parental education and teacher training. It is not widely recognised that parental influence plays a very important role in determining whether a child reads for himself. The introduction of television has had a profound impact on the patterns of family interaction. Not the least of these is the reduced time that many parents and children spend in reading. The United States of America National Government has long recognised the impact of television on family life and its largest single item in education outlays is now parental education. Unfortunately Australians are forced to rely on articles like those that appeared in the Sydney  Sun  on Tuesday last. Under the heading 'The Disaster Area of Education' an article entitled 'How to Help your Child Learn to Read' appeared. Surely Australian parents are not going to be forced to rely on newspaper articles in order to improve and develop their children's reading skills. But all the Government can provide is this do-it-yourself kit which appears in the Press. 
The Select Committee also found that teacher training programs contain an inadequate amount of compulsory course work in such subjects as the teaching of reading, basic numeracy and coping with learning difficulties. Surely it is time that the Government took action to implement at least some of the recommendations of the Committee and to commit itself to the long term objectives of the report. I hope that Government supporters will make representations to the Government and the Treasurer in the pre-budget period to ensure that the Government implements some of the recommendations in the life of this Parliament. I commend the proposed amendment to this House. It corrects the erroneous concepts that are contained in this shocking document,  Her  Majesty's Speech. It was a disgrace and insult to the monarch to have her present it at the opening of this Parliament. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I seek leave to make a statement. 
I think one point that has been lost during the course of this debate- it ought to be recognised by those people listening to the debate- is that all the transportation ills in this country were created not during the 3 years of Labor administration but during 28 years of maladministration for which the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  was greatly responsible. As has been indicated by my colleagues in an earlier debate on this subject, the Opposition is opposed to the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads (Repeal) Bill 1977 in the form in which it is before the Parliament. The purpose of the Bill is to repeal the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads Act 1964 and to abolish the independent statutory body known as the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads to enable the establishment of the new and expanded Bureau within the Department of Transport. That new body, to be known as the Bureau of Transport Economics, will be an amalgam of the Bureau of Transport Economics established by government decision in 1970 and the existing Commonwealth Bureau of Roads established by legislation in 1964. 
Let it be made perfectly clear that we on this side of the House do not oppose the concept of amalgamating the 2 bodies but we are concerned that as a result of the legislation the independence and impartiality of the new body will be at serious risk. We are particularly concerned that significant sections of local government are opposed to the form of legislation and emphasise that if the new body is to function properly it should be acceptable to all 3 tiers of government in this country. It is quite clear that it is not acceptable to the important tier of local government, and that should be sufficient reason for the 
Australian Government to rethink at least its attitude to the Bill. 
My colleagues have, earlier in this debate, drawn attention to the expressed opposition of local government and produced evidence of that opposition. I attempted today to bring further evidence of local government disquiet before the House. The Municipal Association of Victoria could not put its position more plainly when it says that it views with alarm the decision to amalgamate the Bureau of Transport Economics and the Bureau of Roads with the Department of Transport. Like the Australian Labor Party Opposition, the Municipal Association of Victoria pays tribute to the way in which the Bureau of Roads has fulfilled its statutory responsibilities with a high level of credibility, impartiality and professionalism. A decision has been taken which was referred to earlier this evening by the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins).  It has been claimed that one of the reasons for all these problems has been the jealousies of professionalism. I think that the Government ought to be serious about this matter and set those sorts of issues aside. The Minister for Transport ought to take very heavily on his shoulders the responsibility for consideration of that matter. 
Indeed, the same sort of respect for both the Bureau of Roads and the Bureau of Transport Economics has been expressed by speakers in the debate from the Government side of the House. There appears to be little between us in our attitude to the work of these 2 bodies during their existence. What concerns us is that the attributes which have attracted almost universal praise will not be allowed to continue if the Government 's intentions as outlined in this Bill are carried out. There is a widespread fear that the standards built up over some time will be destroyed. It is a fear of the Municipal Association of Victoria and the Australian Council of Local Government Associations, and certainly it is shared by municipal councils in my electorate which have contacted me indicating support for the position adopted by the Municipal Association of Victoria. These bodies support inter-modal consideration of transport problems. But they also strongly believe that this must be undertaken within a structure and environment which ensure impartiality. They strongly believe that the method of implementation proposed by the Government does not provide that assurance. 
Local government wants the Government to reconsider the proposed amalgamation and to agree to the formation of an independent body. They set out certain criteria for the achievement of this objective, namely, the establishment of an independent body. Firstly, they say, as we say, that the new body must be acceptable to all 3 tiers of government and to the transport industry. Quite clearly, the propositions of the Government in relation to this issue are not acceptable. Secondly, they believe that the new body should be established by legislation in a manner similar to the way in which the Bureau of Roads was originally established. Thirdly, they say that the new body should be independent to ensure the maintenance of a high level of credibility. Fourthly, they say that the existing level of cooperative consultation and effort demonstrates co-operative federalism at work, if that is what it all means. I wonder. The Municipal Association of Victoria goes on to say that it agrees that intermodal consideration of transport problems is essential if governments are to arrive at decisions which will best allocate limited resources to an almost limitless task. It does not object to the amalgamation itself but it is concerned with the likely harmful effect of an amalgamation which will absorb a truly independent body into a departmental structure which, by definition, can never be truly independent. This is indicative of the Government's attitude and all this secretive investigation. We have had one investigation conducted by Professor Wilson within the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs since 1970. Nothing could be more secretive than that because he has never produced a report. 
Transport issues and particularly roads have to take account of the requirements of Federal, State and local governments as well as the inherent economic inequalities and varying needs within and between the States. That is why the new body must be acceptable to all 3 levels of government. The only way to achieve this is to ensure that this new body is established by legislation in the way in which the Bureau of Roads was originally established. The then Minister for Shipping and Transport,  Mr Freeth,  made this very point when the Bureau of Roads was established. He said: 
The Commonwealth must be in a position to see the problem as a national whole and not simply as the sum of a particular view of it. We felt that this could best be undertaken by a statutory body, to be called the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads, responsible to the Minister for Shipping and Transport. 
Maybe the present Minister for Transport is rather reluctant to take that responsibility, but this view ought to be expressed to him openly when he is making up his mind, if he has a mind to make up. The Government has made much fuss in the present debate about attitudes of the then Opposition when the Bureau was established. It has tried, with the usual degree of inadequacy, to use old statements to discredit the present attitudes of the Opposition. But from the statement by the then Minister for Shipping and Transport it can be seen that the then government intended a body which was independent and capable of taking an overall view. We maintain that the present Government should adopt the same attitude now. 
A new body, independently structured, would ensure the maintenance of a high level of credibility in the eyes of State governments, State road authorities and local government. The proposed absorption of an amalgamated body into a Federal departmental structure would destroy the authority's credibility. It would be another example of the Government stepping backwards rather than forwards into history. In particular, it would be a backward step in the development of shared responsibility between the 3 levels of government. Clearly, the new body should be established by legislation and be directly responsible to the Minister. The Minister should take that responsibility. 
The Opposition is compelled to ask, along with local government bodies, for answers to the following 3 questions. Firstly, is the proposed amalgamation a bureaucratic grab for power justified on the grounds of short term economies in administrative costs rather than on the grounds of national interest? Secondly, will the amalgamated body command the same support and co-operation now accorded the present independent Bureau of Roads by State and local government road authorities? Thirdly, will the amalgamation lead to the same situation which led the Menzies coalition Government when the Bureau was established to identify the need for truly independent advice to the Government? 
At the moment, our view must be that the answer to all 3 questions would be a resounding no'. But it would not take much of a shift in opinion for the answer to be 'yes' in all 3 cases. It would involve no loss of face for that shift in opinion to be made. It would simply demonstrate, possibly for the first time, that the Government is prepared to go to those people on whom it must depend for co-operation, many of whom were beguiled into supporting it in 1975. I am sure they will never do it again. Otherwise, cooperative federalism- I place a question mark after that term- is exposed once more for the sham it has always been under the feudal approach of the Fraser Government in other areas of national policy. What is it going to mean? 
Once again the Government will pass on responsibility. It will pass on responsibility in the area of foreign policy and other identified areas. But State and local governments will be identifying their responsibilities in the taxes that they impose on other people. We surely must make that point very strongly. 

 Mr colleague, the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  has indicated to the House already that whilst the Opposition opposes this repeal Bill, it is not opposed to the concept of amalgamation. Indeed, we believe that all the indications are that the time for amalgamation is appropriate, even desirable, given the expressed need by staffs of both organisations for a strong multi-modal transport advisory body at the Federal level. But that will not be achieved by the means proposed by the Government. My information is that the very staffs which see virtue in amalgamation as such are not happy about amalgamation as proposed by the Government. We have heard much in this debate about the respect in which the staffs are held for the manner in which they carry out their duties. I join with others in paying tribute to them. 
The strength of any organisation lies in its staff, and the Minister in introducing this Bill places great store on the question of staff and the production of a strong integrated research body to come out of the amalgamation. But he has to take his consideration of staff much further and see whether the method of amalgamation he proposes does have the support of the existing staff. He really ought to be discussing with them and their bodies the way in which this ought to happen. My information is that it does not, and there is evidence of staff turnovers since the announcement in May last year that the 2 bodies were to be merged. There is evidence that the reason for the staff turnover is the manner in which the amalgamation is proposed. Staff turnover means an erosion of the organisational strength of the organisations. Unhappy staff means that they will not function in the way they have been accustomed to function under the existing system. Now, if the purpose of the amalgamation is to improve efficiency and reduce wastage then everything should be done to ensure that that objective is achieved. 
It is a self-defeating exercise to go through the motions of a desired amalgamation when you neglect to achieve amalgamation to the general satisfaction of all those involved. As I have said, at least 2 categories of people are involved. Local government and staff are eminently dissatisfied with the way things are going. Remaining on the question of staff, my information is that Commonwealth Bureau of Roads staff are getting strong indications that information flows from State road authorities and local government to the new Bureau of Transport Economics- the amalgamated body- will be more limited than the current flow to the Bureau of Roads. Staff see the new Bureau basically as part of the departmental machine. One of the main reasons that staff of the Bureau of Roads has performed with such a high level of responsibility, such efficiency and such success is that they have not been part of departmental machinery. They have placed a value on the independence which flows from being part of a statutory body, set up under its own legislation and reporting directly to the Minister. Maybe the Minister is afraid to receive that information because if he does he may be bound to accept it. That is his problem. I believe that what the Opposition is putting, and in particular what I am putting, ought to be given serious consideration. 
Clearly that independence, that zeal, is worth preserving and could easily be preserved if the Government modifies its thinking to effect the amalgamation by separate legislation. It is not such a gigantic step to take. It retains the original intention of amalgamating the work of 2 worthwhile bodies, with the desirable objective of greater efficiency and reduced wastage of resources. I put to the Minister that he ought to consider amendments to the legislation in the Committee stage. It seems that the Minister is more concerned with talking to the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Simon)  than with listening to the debate. I would imagine that that is about as much notice as he will take of any of the pleas made to him. If they were the only objectives of the legislation, it would be unobjectionable, if it were carried out in the proper way and did not override the clearly expressed complaints of people intimately involved with the effects of the legislation. But it does attempt to override those complaints. It flies in the face of objections conscientiously raised by people and by organisations of some substance and significance in the area. 
The Minister still prattles on with the honourable member for McMillan. If the Government persists in forcing through the legislation in its present form, it must be suspected of motives other than the apparently quite respectable motives of improving efficiency and reducing waste. The arrogance of the Minister just has to be seen to be believed. During discussion of this legislation the Minister has sat in the House and has talked to the honourable member for 
McMillan. He has not paid any attention to questions raised in the last 5 minutes. His acknowledgment of what has been said may be to ridicule me. But really he would be ridiculing what I am putting forward as an alternative suggestion for the consideration of the Minister. I repeat that if the Government persists in forcing through the legislation in its present form- the Minister continues with his conversation- it must be suspected of motives other than the apparently quite respectable motives of improving efficiency and reducing waste. If the Government does not heed the objections of this significant group it must be judged guilty of, at best - 
Debate interrupted. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 23 March 1 977: 
1 ) Can he say whether the Canberra Showgrounds Trust is planning to erect approximately 20 lighting poles on the Canberra showgrounds arena. 
If so, will implementation of this plan restrict the largest uncluttered showground arena in Australia, create unacceptable hazards which would preclude the conduct of equestrian events on it and unnecessarily restrict spectator's view of any arena activity. 
Will he give an assurance that he will require the Showgrounds Trust, prior to proceeding further with their plans, to consult with responsible representatives of users of the showgrounds to ensure that the lighting system installed does not inhibit the use of the arena for the many purposes for which it is required. 
The Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs will recall that in 1970 the then Minister for Immigration,  Mr Phillip  Lynch, made an announcement regarding a number of steps that were to be taken by the then Government, amongst which was the commissioning of Professor J. R. Wilson of the University of Sydney to undertake - 
There was a drought; I can tell you. He was commissioned to undertake a costbenefit analysis of immigration into Australia. This analysis was commissioned as part of the inquiry into Australia's population. I ask the Minister: Is it true that Professor Wilson has submitted the first part of his report to the Government? If so, will the Minister table the document as a contribution to the discussion on Australia 's population? What has been the financial outlay on the report? When will Professor Wilson complete the final report? The inquiry having gone on for 7 years, it sounds a bit like  Blue Hills. 
-I speak in this debate in an endeavour at least to put the arguments in some perspective. We have heard the stock exchange operator trying to put this Parliament - 
The debate - 
-If the cap fits, wear it. The debate on uranium mining and export has reached the stage where the recommendations of the Fox inquiry have been reduced to a farcical level by the Government. It is obvious that the Government acted with indecent haste and, while it protested that it had not reached any conclusion on future mining of unanium resources, it is clear that there are strong proponents of unrestricted uranium mining among influential members of the Government. It is clear that the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  and the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman),  who is sitting at the table, fall into this category. They cannot control their impetuosity. They want to move in as quickly as possible and exploit Australia's uranium resources purely and simply from the motive of profit, despite uranium's potential as a pollutant, as a killer, as a danger to the environment and to the lives and future well being of human beings, born and unborn. 
The Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development dashed into the media as soon as the Fox report was released with a statement that the report had given the green light to the mining and export of uranium. The report is clearly open to a different interpretation from that wishfully thought upon it by the Minister. Let me quote from page 185 of the report to reinforce that contention. The report says: 
Policy respecting Australian uranium exports, for the time being at least, should be based on a full recognition of the hazards, dangers and problems of and associated with the production of nuclear energy, and should therefore seek to limit or restrict expansion of that production. 
That is a long way from being a green light. At best it is an amber cautionary light. It could also be seen as a flashing red light with the clear warning: 'Don't proceed until you are absolutely sure that the way ahead is clear and safe'. 
Then we have the Deputy Prime Minister throwing proper caution to the winds and launching a book entitled  Uranium on Trial- a.  publication that supports the mining and export of uranium. This is a disgraceful situation when the Government is supposed not to have reached a conclusion until there has been a proper and adequate public debate, and at least until the proposed second report has been tabled. The Government is paying absolute lip service to the promises that have been made. It has acted prematurely and impetuously. A more enlightened view than that adopted by either of those Ministers and by others on the Government side has been taken by the Executive Committee of the Australian Council of Churches. The Executive Committee late last year unanimously passed a resolution which, among other things: 
. welcomes the open and honest discussion of the serious risks and disadvantages associated with the various operations of the nuclear power industry in the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry first report. 
The Australian Council of Churches Committee also stated: 
. urges the Australian Government to accept all recommendations in the Ranger Report and especially that calling for ample time for public and Parliamentary debate before any decisions are taken on these matters. 
The resolution also called for 'a significant increase in Australian Government investment and support for research and development into alternative non-nuclear energy sources such as solar, wind, tidal and bio-medical energy. ' The Fox report gives anything but the green light to uranium mining and export. The Australian Council of Churches recognises that fact and so does the Labor Party. The Labor Party believes that there should be a genuine public debatenot all this rubbish that is going on at the present time. If the Government has the idea of proposing a referendum, why does it not put both arguments to the people now? Why does it not put the for and against arguments when it is distributing the referendum material? Why does it not ask the Australian people what they really believe ought to be done for the future of the mining industry? As I say, the Fox report gives anything but the green light. The report also rightly sounds other warnings which are ignored by those in the pro-nuclear lobby who, heedless of the future, would mine uranium on an unlimited scale for the enrichment of a few at the expense of the overwhelming majority. For example, the report states: 
There is at present no generally accepted means by which high level waste can be permanently isolated from the environment and remain safe for very long periods. 
Because some people wear red underpants in this place, the Government sees communists under beds. Everything that is involved in a particular question deters the Government from looking reasonably at any matter. With regard to this issue, surely there is a challenge for those who respect the future of mankind to look seriously at this question and for once set aside this mad desire to make profits and pour millions of dollars into the pockets of those individuals represented by Government supporters. While these adequate safeguards are not satisfied, we must again refer to the report, which states: 
While provision of security adequate to guarantee against terrorist intrusion - honourable members should think about that- is theoretically possible . . . there must be a question whether adequate precautions will in fact be taken. 
The report also refers to the 'very real risks that the opportunity and the motive for nuclear blackmail will develop within time '. It is a frightening prospect, standing on the edge of the unknown darkness, yet there are those honourable members opposite who would push civilisation into that black void to satisfy the financial interests of the few who stand to make huge amounts of money out of the mining and export of uranium. 
Fortunately, there are researchers- and we have them here in Australia- who share the Fox report's serious reservations about the development of nuclear energy. This point brings me to the question raised by the Australian Council of Churches Executive Committee in its resolution, that is, the question of research and development into alternative power sources. Let me quote a general conclusion from work done at the Department of Engineering Physics, School of Physical Sciences, at the Australian National University. That conclusion states:  the urgency for the development of nuclear energy has been exaggerated. 
It goes on to list the reasons why this is so, reasons to which I would like to draw the attention of the House. Firstly, nuclear power is not a substitute for oil. It is only a substitute for coal and there are sufficient supplies of coal in Australia for our own use to last 800 years. Taking the more realistic view that we would have to share our supplies of coal with the rest of the world, the known reserves are sufficient to last 100 years. I would like the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development to answer that point some time. Secondly, known uranium reserves economically suitable at current planned development rate of nuclear power would last about 30 years. In this period large quantities of dangerous waste would have been parked around the world. If some people have their way Australia would become a super-parking lot for all the world 's nuclear waste in exchange for the very short term and extremely dubious advantage of income from the mining and export of uranium. 
These researchers believe that there is every possibility that within a period of IS years to 20 years- and beyond doubt within 30 years to 50 years- electrical power will be able to be generated from the sun for the same cost as generation of electricity from coal or from nuclear power. Research workers from the Australian National University can produce water temperatures of 450 degrees centigrade from solar heat. The research workers are certain that there is no technical problem between them and their capacity to operate a steam turbine from solar heat, which means that they would be able to generate electricity. The scientists are also confident that within 5 years they could establish a pilot plant to generate electricity if the Government would make available the necessary $2m. Given the acknowledged magnitude of the energy problem, this is not a large amount of money spread over a 5-year period. Given the high human cost of a mistake made in formulating nuclear policy the amount involved in pursuing this solar energy development is minute. 
I am told by scientists that solar power today is in the same position that nuclear power was 20 years ago. At that time the cost of nuclear generated electricity was about 10c a kilowatt hour. Today it costs about 2c a kilowatt hour. Today solar energy can be costed at about 5c a kilowatt hour. It is almost certain that with the development of economies of sale and with a fraction of the research and development program undertaken for nuclear power, solar power will cost less than half of this amount long before coal supplies run out. Solar power will be cheaper than either coal or nuclear power. None of the scientists to whom I have talked pretends that they can develop economical power from solar energy in one year, two years or even five years, but beyond that most are confident that somewhere in the world this work is being done. 
-The Minister talks about 20 years to 25 years. If that is the price to be paid for protecting unborn generations, it is a very minute price to pay. But if as a result of what the Government does now children are bora with deformities it will be on the conscience of the Minister. The decision that the Government takes ought to weigh very heavily on the shoulders of the Minister because it is a decision that he will have to sleep with, and die with eventually. I put it to the Minister that the question of disposal of nuclear waste is one to which he should give very serious attention. I wish to quote further from the report. It states: 
While we do not think that the waste situation is at present such as to justify Australia wholly refusing to export uranium, it is plain that the situation demands careful watching, and, depending on development, regular and frequent assessment. 
If the Minister commits himself in an economic sense, as our sabre rattling friends on the Government back bench want him to do, then forever more he will be indicted as an individual who subscribed to that viewpoint purely and simply for economic advancement. This Government cannot make any decision on the future of mining and export of uranium until the second report of the inquiry is tabled. It should not do so. But it should not add lip service to this public debate. Surely the proposition of the Council of Churches for a moratorium should be considered- 
I have been hailed in the Press as a supporter of the export of uranium. I am totally opposed to it and if it would not be grandstanding with a lot of other people I would be supporting a S year moratorium. I have declared in this situation that I support the decision taken. I support the Australian Labor Party's opposition to the proposal. This Government cannot make any decision, as I have indicated, until the second report is tabled. After all the time, all those witnesses, all those pages of transcript and all the exhaustive inquiry the first Fox report still leaves its options open against a background of extreme caution. The only thing that it is really sure about is that at this time Australia should not commit itself to withholding for all time its uranium supplies. The Parliament should adopt the precepts of the Fox report and be extremely cautious about this issue. I conclude with the quotation from a resolution to which I referred before. It states: 
We are charged to be caretakers of Creation not only for ourselves, but for future generations. Even if tonight were the world's last night, the decisions we take should be such that future generations would have no cause to curse us. 
-I rise in this adjournment debate to draw attention to an issue which I think is disturbing a lot of people. Perhaps the name of Hishamuddin Rais is not well known but it does indicate our lack of understanding and our failure to meet our responsibilities. It enshrines the policies of the Government and its failure to act responsibly when people in this country are seeking assistance and support, when people are apprehensive that their future in their country of origin is in doubt and when their apprehension can be supported by fact. Hishamuddin Rais is a student, and it might well be said that he is a person who came here understanding clearly what might be the consequences of leaving the country at a particular time. The question which should be asked is this: How do we deal with our refugee problem? Every time the question of refugees arises we hide behind the United Nations definition, which can be interpreted in whatever way one wishes. By hiding behind that definition we can evade our responsibilities, and apply our policy in respect of refugees in a discriminatory way. 
This person has been involved in a number of activities in his own country of Malaysia. He was amongst the Moslem minority involved in the suppression in Pattani. He was involved in the protests against the war in Vietnam and in the struggle against the Thai military regime. He was also involved in the Tasek Utara squatter uprisings- all issues that went to the question - 
You are a fascist and you would never ever believe that he should have a fair go anyway. 
I rise this evening in the adjournment debate to draw the attention of the House to some of the inadequacies of the way in which the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  is handling the important issue of the debate on population policy. The White Paper will be tabled following the findings of the Green Paper. It is advocated rightly by the Minister and those who spoke in the debate on the Green Paper that it should be a matter of - 
-No, I did not let him know but I do not think that is anything that is very serious. 
Somebody on your side can do that if he so desires. 
You are a microbe. 
I withdraw the remark. Although the Green Paper purports to be a discussion paper in which various options are present, in fact it is a highly political document. Its presentation is extremely biased and in fact there is no public discussion. The newspapers and others, as well as the media which normally do the Government's bidding, are projecting views in a completely biased way. It will be really hard for those who want to enter this debate to get a true perspective of it because there is not a clear and accurate account of some of the opposing views and how the erroneous concepts that have developed in the Green Paper are being projected to those who may finally make the decisions. 
The Minister made a speech- he did not advise me that he was going to deliver his speech, so I suppose it is par for the course- and he talked about the decline in the growth rate of the labour force without immigration. He went on to raise the question and perhaps pose the notion that this would cause a catastrophic situation in the foreseeable future. But the fact is that something like 800 000 to 900 000 jobs are about to disappear. 
I thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  for your ruling- a sound one. The real issue here is that this address and this information from the Minister are absolutely misleading. There is a shortage of skilled tradesmen and we have people coming out of high school and coming out at every level of our education system who simply cannot find employment in the levels in which they anticipated or hoped that they would find it. 
The whole question of skilled labour is there for us to manage in an education program if that is what we desire. I just draw to the attention of the House that this continuing display of incompetence in projecting a view that ought to be projected is presented in such a way that a public debate is being undermined by the type of evidence being produced by the Government and in particular by the Minister. It is being projected by the media at large. This is certainly not doing justice to a debate that is worthy of a better effort. 
House adjourned at 1 1 p.m. 
-This evening we heard a speech that was indicative of the arrogant union-bashing attitude of the Government. The fascist-like legislation presented to this Parliament, for passing in the near futurethe Industrial Relations Bureau legislation, to which the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  referred- is designed to give effect not to what has been traditionally the purpose of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act taken in its context, that is, the conciliatory wing of that Act. People such as Chief Commissioner Chambers and others have worked very assiduously. Those who knew something about industrial relations, such as Judge Foster and other gentlemen who were revered in the industrial area, brought together people- both employers and employees- who were in dispute. I am afraid that the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  who has just resumed his seat has never had any experience in industrial relations, and thank God he has not.  His  outbursts in this place are enough to start a fight in an empty house. If we relied on the sorts of outbursts that we have learned to expect from that individual, whose mouthings come from right out of the notebook of Santamaria, we would never have any industrial peace in this country. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! I remind the honourable member for Melbourne of what I said a few moments ago. The honourable member will address the Chair. 
I cannot help it if he receives his advice from the National Civic Council. 
I bow to your ruling,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  The amendment which the Opposition has moved spells out clearly and unequivocally the procedures and the processes that ought to be undertaken. The Government has failed miserably to carry out the promises it has made to the Australian people. It has failed miserably to come to grips with the overriding problems of inflation. The honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  who sits next to the honourable member for Denison, has clearly criticised the Government on its handling of the economy. The issues and the matters that are spelled out and the suggestions that are made in the amendment moved by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  are the only things that are really constructive in relation to overcoming inflation. 
What have been the results of all of the concepts, processes and procedures adopted by the Government, including devaluation, in taking a heavyhanded attitude towards reducing the real level of the wages of trade unionists in this country? If the position is laid out clearly and concisely as it was laid out in submissions made to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission- I will refer to those submissions in a few moments -it must be accepted without argument that the real level of workers' wages in this country has fallen and that the recovery that was expected to result from the procedures and processes adopted by the Government has failed to materalise. The amendment points to the direction in which we ought to go from here. We say that the standard of living of all Australians has declined. We say there is an urgent need for alternative policies to promote a consumer-led recovery. At the present moment there is only one person in isolation who does not believe that a national conference of all the parties involved ought to be held. I refer to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  He held a conference with the Premiers. The only item on the agenda was the second phase of federalism, and that really had nothing to do with coming to grips with the problems that irk the economy at the moment. 
When that conference could not agree on that agenda item the Government attempted to introduce a prices and wages freeze. But it was simply an exercise in ad hockery. Everything that we have come to expect from the Government has been in that vein. In his submission to the Arbitration Commission the advocate for the Australian Council of Trade Unions- his words are very clear- said: 
These facts are simply untrue and downright nonsense to present, if contrived as a diversionary tactic, as an act of considered statesmanship in introducing this proposition of a prices and wages freeze. The economic welfare of the Australian people deserves better than this sort of charade. 
The submission then went on to say: 
Illegitimacy of itself, however, should not damn the offspring. So let us examine the factual position now confronting the Commission. 
The submission then went on to spell out that the best way to understand what it all meant was to understand that it was simply not a proposition for a prices and incomes freeze. It went on to say: 
While some subsequent noises have been emitted in these directions, there is absolutely no apparatus to deal in any way with professional or quasi-professional incomes and with those who derive incomes from dividends, capital gains or from various sources in the interest rate structure. Most importantly it is not a freeze upon prices. Already various spokesmen for those who derive their income from prices have made it quite clear that they will not hold prices constant. 
This situation has been emphasised by imports and many food items. People involved in these fields pay lip service to the freeze. The Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  talks about employers taking a responsible position in relation to prices. But every housewife in this country will tell honourable members that in the food marts, in areas where specials are offered, the special price is taken off and the article is offered at the old price. So, for God's sake, I ask the Minister to remember that when we are talking in terms of increasing prices, we are not carrying out some academic exercise over in the Cabinet room. We are talking about what comes out of and what goes into people's pockets. If we look at the matter clearly and unequivocally we will see that as well as those other items to which I have referred the components of the consumer price index which cover private rents, house prices, repairs and maintenance, between 30 per cent and 40 per cent would not be subject to the prices freeze. So the whole thing becomes an absolute facade. The real issue is contained in the amendment which has been moved by the honourable member for Adelaide. Twist and turn as the Prime Minister might, the situation is that the Victorian Premier posed the proposition of cuts in indirect taxes. 
-I do not want the Minister to respond. I do not suppose he can at this point. Instead of going on with all this bellyaching which we have heard from individual backbenchers, I would like whoever is going to respond to respond on the basis of the alternatives to the amendment. The Government's proposals have failed. That has been spelt out by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and by the majority of State governments. They have suggested that a national conference should consider on a national level all the concepts which are spelt out in the amendment. If the Prime Minister cannot be the captain, he wants to take his bat home. He will not call a national conference even in the face of such a suggestion from the majority of Premiers, the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and responsible employee organisations. They have called for a national conference. 
If the Government introduces industrial legislation of that nature there will be a confrontation with the trade union movement. There was such a confrontation during the 1960s. I happened to be an industrial court advocate at that time. Such a confrontation failed then and it will fail again. Any government which declares a situation which will wreck the Conciliation and Arbitration Act is doomed to failure. Such action brought down 2 governments, one in this country and one in the United Kingdom. If such action is attempted again it will bring down this Government. But I do not believe that that is the spirit in which this situation ought to be approached. The honourable member for Denison failed to realise that 2 people are involved in an argument. It is very easy for employers to play a straight bat until such time as all the words run out and then to use whatever legislation is available, but not in a conciliatory fashion. They move to the penal provisions which are contained in the legislation in order to impose their will upon others. That is exactly the proposition with which we are confronted. If such a situation occurs we do not convince anybody by trying to batter them into submission. The processes of conciliation ought to apply in this area. Proper tribunals ought to be established for that purpose. Pressure was applied by the Prime Minister and the responsible Minister in the oil industry dispute, as no doubt it will be applied in the current dispute, to ensure that the dispute was not resolved. I believe that the oil companies must be up to their eyebrows in trouble because they have agreed to grant some concessions so that the dispute could be resolved. 
The Government is interested only in applying pressure, as the Prime Minister applied pressure on the oil companies not to grant concessions, simply to aggravate major disputes. The oil companies were told that they would be in serious trouble if they relented to pressure by the unions. 
I would now like to refer to a number of matters contained in the Appropriation Bills. Cuts were made in proposed expenditure last year and further cuts are to be made this year. These cuts affect those people in the community who can least protect themselves. They affect people in receipt of social welfare benefits, pre-school education and migrants. They affect the services provided by welfare programs which depend on supplementary advances from the Government. There is to be a saving of $7,000 in division 175 1.02 which refers to overtime payments of the Australian Legal Aid Office. This estimate really means that the Office cannot cope with the overload that it has at the present time. Further cuts only aggravate the position. Expenditure on legal aid services has been reduced by $2,496,400. At a time of increasing demand for legal aid services it is surprising that a saving of $7,000 can be achieved from a meagre allocation of$32,400. 
The subject of education was debated in this House today. The honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Shipton)  was a member of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Specific Learning Difficulties and he knows very well that there are children in this country who are deprived of the opportunity of achieving their maximum level of educational development. This is particularly so in the migrant area where, as I have pointed out a number of times, the migrant child is trying to put his backside on 2 stools- he is losing his mother tongue and trying to learn English. In many cases migrant children cannot achieve this objective and because of the inadequacy of our education services they are destined to fill the more meagre positions in our society. 
Why does the honourable member not go into his Caucus room and stand up to the Prime Minister and some of his colleagues and ensure that cuts are not made in that area. The adult migrant education program in Australia, including part-time instruction, is to be cut by $74,000. Expenditure on the child migrant education program is to be cut by $983,400. Also, $419,000 is to be cut from the adult migrant education program. 
Spending on migrant education programs was reduced by 2 per cent in real terms in this year's Budget. A saving of $4,000 will be made under division 274.3.01 under the item of 'Special investigations' for the Schools Commission. An amount of $167,000 has been cut from this item which is vital in the development of multilingual education programs. Honourable members might be interested to note that $404,000 was allocated for this item in Labor's 1975-76 Budget. Only $120,000 was allocated in the Budget for this financial year for those special investigations into the educational needs of disadvantaged groups in this community. Even this meagre amount has been squeezed by another $4,000. The Government claims that it is interested in reducing the educational disadvantage that migrant groups suffer because English is not their first language, but where is there some allocation to implement the recommendations of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Specific Learning Difficulties. I ask my colleague, the honourable member for Higgins: What has happened to the report? The Government has done absolutely nothing about those recommendations and yet he and I stood up here in this House pressing for their implementation. 
Yes, in the sweet bye and bye, when they have beards down to their ankles and the kids are on the end of a pick. That is when it will be OK. Like all the programs which the Government implements, the Government acts only after the ball game is over. 
Yes, I am sure. The tears are streaming down the honourable member's face. Technical education is one of the most serious areas of need in this country. Expenditure on research investigation is down again by $3,000. Appropriation Bill (No. 3) 1976-77 reduces expenditure on this item by 50 per cent, from a total of $219,000. The 1976-77 Budget allocated only $ 125,000 for this item, a reduction of 50 per cent in real terms on the 1975-76 allocation. Yet we hear all this drivel about what we are doing in regard to technical and further education. There was a meeting of educationists in Victoria recently and I noticed that some of our friends were there. The honourable member for Holt  (Mr Yates)  was there going for the lick of his life trying to talk himself out of trouble. I wonder how he faced up to that situation. I hope he did as well there as he does with his bees; I believe he is an expert in that field. These cuts seriously jeopardise research aimed at meeting the needs of ethnic groups, and the honourable member for Holt ought to be mindful of that. How does he explain that to the people of the Dandenong area who require this research? 
In regard to the expenditure of the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations, there is a saving of $ 10.87m on the National Employment and Training scheme for which there was a total appropriation of only $40m. Appropriation Bill (No. 3) 1976-77 reduced expenditure on the NEAT scheme by $5.1m by reducing the allowances payable to trainees. The Government claimed that it could assist more people with retraining assistance as a result of its decision. This further reduction in expenditure, or 'saving' as the Government euphemistically describes it, demonstrates that the living allowance paid to NEAT trainees is not adequate. Clearly many people have had to abandon the programs. Anybody sitting in this Parliament knows that people who have had pressures placed on them and have not been able to bear those pressures have had to abandon programs. They simply cannot afford to continue them. Discrimination reigns supreme in every area to which one can point. So I believe that if there were an ounce of principle in the decision making process on the Government benches, honourable members opposite would not only support the amendment but also would apply sufficient pressure on the Prime Minister to ensure that without any prevarication he accedes to the wishes of the vast majority of people in this country by calling a national conference to deal with all the issues that are contained in the amendment. It is only by doing that that we will get an overall view of the situation, do what is required and at least head us in the direction of overcoming the economic ills of this country. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security. In the first instance I must apologise to the Minister because I understand that the AttorneyGeneral was representing the Minister when I asked the question the other day. I now ask: Will the Minister confirm that interpreters attached to the Department of Social Security's telephone interpreter service, who used to assist doctors, lawyers, social workers and the police during interviews with non-English speaking migrants, can no longer offer this service because of the financial restrictions applied to the operations of the Department? Can the Minister assure the House that these restrictions will be lifted immediately so that non-English speaking migrants are guaranteed equality of access to medical, legal and social welfare services regardless of what language they speak? Will he ensure also that consideration is given during the preparation of the 1977-78 Budget to providing additional interpreters for this service to cope with the rising demand for assistance from professional and migrant organisations? 
-The Opposition welcomes the statement on the Government's policy on refugees, belated though it is and with all the shortcomings it contains. At least it outlines some machinery for finding some of the facts for investigation in relation to the problems faced by refugees and displaced persons throughout the world. For the most part, this long statement is padded with a deal of rhetoric to embellish it as a dramatic and forward move in dealing with the very serious problems of refugees, quasi-refugees and displaced people. It is designed to cover up the incompetent bungling and the deception by the Government in its inefficient administration in terms of providing details of persons in the categories mentioned in the statement. The Opposition acknowledges the machinery anticipated by the statement. However, all the purple prose and sophisticated machinery in the world will not go one iota towards resolving the plight of the refugees and other similarly affected people throughout the world unless the Government applies the spirit of the United Nations convention and the spirit of the report which was presented by the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence instead of, as it has done up till now, paying lip service to the principles of the convention and hiding behind the legalisms and the literal interpretation of the United Nations definition of 'refugee '. 
If one takes into account the track record of the Government in dealing with the refugee question and its total disregard for the indignity which people have suffered in certain areas, for people who have been displaced and for individuals who fear for their safety and who are apprehensive about returning to their countries where there have been changes of government and in which they will face intolerable privations if they return, one can be excused for being apprehensive about the sincerity of the Government on this question. 
As I have indicated, it is pleasing to see that finally the Government is enunciating an ongoing refugee policy. Unfortunately, the statement of the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  fails to implement the most significant of the recommendations of the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. The Government is to establish a standing interdepartmental committee on refugees, as recommended by the Senate Committee; but it totally ignores the proposal to set up an Australian refugee policy council. Paragraph 7.14 of the Senate Committee report states: 
The Committee recommends the establishment of an advisory body to be known as the 'Australian Refugee Policy Council' for the purpose of assisting the Government to formulate an Australian policy on all aspects of refugee resettlement and to review and continually assess its implementation and effectiveness. Membership of this body should be drawn from both government and nongovernment sources- On the non-government side, membership should comprise representatives from the major Australian refugee-receiving and overseas-aid agencies, the Australian representative of the UNHCR (in an observer capacity), Red Cross, other organisations having practical experience in settlement work and post-hostel community support for refugees, and representatives from the academic community. 
This is typical of the Government's attitude. It has the bureaucracy determining these issues- a select little club advising the Minister without the direct participation of people who are involved in the matter and who know something about the humanitarian aspects of it. Without this council there is no mechanism for representation of the non-government sector. The major voluntary refugee receiving and aid-giving organisations have been ignored by the Government and will not be consulted in the development of refugee policies. As Australia's past endeavours in this field have depended heavily upon these organisations and representatives of the various ethnic groups in our society, this omission will seriously hamper the development of an adequate and comprehensive refugee policy. It is typical of the Government's patronising view of migrants and their welfare that they will not be consulted. The decisions will be imposed on them by some select group. The Opposition believes that that is not implementing the principles and the spirit of the report. 
The Government also has ignored its obligations under the convention relating to the status of refugees. In this respect the recommendation of the Senate Standing Committee was as follows: 
As a means of providing refugees (and migrants) with realistic opportunities for obtaining apprenticeships, appropriate employment, admission to tertiary and other educational institutions and opportunities for re-training, the Committee recommends that, irrespective of the current levels of proficiency, financial support be provided to all males and females of working age whilst they attend English language classes. 
The attitude of the Government is reflected in what is proposed for the forthcoming year, when there will be restrictions on the capacity to carry out that work. So it is hypocrisy to talk about an intake of refugees while paying only lip service to the principles to which I have made reference. The statement makes great play of the international convention. It says that it has ratified the Convention on the Status of Refugees. It has not ratified the Convention. It has failed to add up to the principles that are spelt out therein. We believe that it is fundamental to any refugee policy for the future. 
I have indicated that the track record of the Government in dealing with refugee problems leaves a lot to be desired. I think it is worth repeating a statement made in relation to Chileans by the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs on 18 November in response to a question which I placed on the Notice Paper some months before. He stated that deportation orders had been signed against 30 Chileans who were illegally resident in Australia. Clearly, there is a total disregard for the safety of people who are asked to return to a situation in which their freedom and even their lives would be in jeopardy at the hands of one of the most corrupt regimes ever to hold power anywhere in the world. The evidence available is totally authorative. Reports by Amnesty International ought to be taken into account. I am sure that the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  would be the first to support my contention that that is correct. 
That point again adds lip service to this situation. Let us consider the situation of Hishamuddin Rais, the Malaysian student. When one has a look at his background in his own country it is sheer hypocrisy by any reasoning or any reading of that history to say that his safety would not be in question if he returned to Malaysia. As a matter of fact, the Government has recognised this. It has indicated that he can stay in Australia for another 6 months in order to allow some leeway in the country to which he wishes to go. That means we accept that he has a problem. We accept the situation at large. But we are passing the buck. We are getting some other country to take the responsibility and not ourselves. If that is any indication of the principles and the spirit of how this policy will be carried out then it leaves a lot to be desired. As I have indicated, language instruction is a fundamental matter on which the spirit of any refugee policy has to be maintained. It has been undermined by the steps which the Government has taken in the previous Budget. We are convinced by the statements already made that in the months ahead fewer steps will be taken. 
With regard to the Government's very sorry record in relation to the Lebanese crisis the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  and myself have raised issues repeatedly in this place concerning the Government's inaction, its deception of the Lebanese community in Australia and its failure to assist the passage of an adequate number of refugees from this sorry nation to Australia. The record speaks for itself. All the Government did was to raise the expectancy of the people from Lebanon. When people flocked in their numbers out of the country into overseas posts the Government cut off the very post in which the poorer element from the Lebanon could have left the country and been placed in the same category as anyone else with the same opportunity of joining their relatives in this country. If a person did not have stg100 to get across the Mediterranean to Nicosia it was just bad luck. He had to stay. What has the Government done now? It is going to open the post in Beirut. But I understand- I should like the Minister to confirm this one of these days- that it is simply going to transfer the staff from Nicosia to Beirut. What has the Minister to say about the staff ceilings? If we continue to apply staff ceilings in the Public Service, the temporary situation that the Minister mentioned in the statement with regard to Thailand will not last as long as the previous operation. Once again it is patronising to make a statement such as this when the Government takes the very actions that will undermine it from the start. 
Whilst we are dealing with that aspect of the statement which refers clearly to the establishment of staff in Thailand temporarily to make a continuing contribution to the resolution of the refugee problem there I ask: What about Cyprus? The statement referred to a whole range of other matters which I acknowledge are very serious and come within the ambit of the refugee problem. The Opposition feels for those refugees as it does for other refugees. The Minister talked about displaced people. He mentioned the situation in Czechoslovakia in 1968 and Hungary in 1 956. There was not one word about Cyprus, one of the Commonwealth countries in which there are 200 000 displaced people. The Government did not have the responsibility even to attend a conference convened for the purpose of implementing the United Nations resolutions on Cyprus. I also refer to the situation concerning Vietnamese refugees coming to Australia in boats. Of course, their plight has to be recognised. But what about the people from Chile? Does this statement mean that if they can row across from Chile and land in Australia they become part of our responsibility in a different sense? That is the way it has been administered. All the machinery and all the guff in this statement is just padding out this situation to make it sound nice. If we apply the same sorts of standards and principles which the Minister has applied in the past we will be no further advanced. 
The Opposition acknowledges that there must be efficient, effective machinery to deal with the refugee problem. We will not come to grips with it if we pay lip service as this statement clearly does. In relation to people who will be resettled in Australia, we will go through a process of advising the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs on the capacity for accepting refugees and will regularly review the intake of refugees against the capacity of resources in this country to ensure successful resettlement. The Green Paper that has been produced by the Government is a political document. It does not go to the point, nor can it provide the information that is necessary to deal with this problem in an intelligent way. There is need for a comprehensive, balanced inquiry into Australia's population resources and our need for migrants, not the inquiry which has been held or the political document which has been presented as a Green Paper. There needs to be clear detail of what this means. 
Questions concerning these details have been placed on the Notice Paper by the Leader of the Opposition and myself to the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  They have asked for the number of refugees that have landed in this country. They have never been answered. If the Minister would like the question numbers they are 1 97, 252 and 807. If the Government is to set up machinery to deal with this problem in an intelligent and purposeful way it has to tidy its approach to the problem. Whilst the Opposition acknowledges and welcomes the statement, it is shallow and weak. It needs to be looked at again if it is to be effective. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 29 March 1977: 
Did the Department of Social Security prepare, publish and distribute a pamphlet entitled  The Newcomer and the Law. 
If so, when was the pamphlet published. 
How many pamphlets were published, and at what cost. 
How have the pamphlets been distributed, and how many have been distributed. 
Were the addresses and phone numbers of Australian Legal Aid Officers given in the publication correct at the date of publication. 
Did the pamphlet outline the basis for divorce under the Family Law Act; if not, why not. 
Was the other information in the pamphlet correct and factual at the time of publication. 
Was the pamphlet written by  Mr W.  E. Holder, a Senior Lecturer in Law at the Australian National University; if so, what fee was paid to  Mr Holder. 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. Has the Government rejected submissions from the New South Wales Government recently for a modest increase in the funding for the adult migrant education service so that it could cope with the growing demand from migrants wishing to learn English or overcome literacy problems? Is it true that the living allowance paid to migrants while they learn English by the Migrant Education Branch of the Department of Education has not been increased for 12 months and that the single rate allowance of $36 a week is now $1 1.10 less than the equivalent unemployment benefit payment? Does the Minister agree that this large disparity between the 2 allowances would discourage many migrants, particularly those who are unemployed, from undertaking English language training even if they are fortunate enough to gain admission to the course? 
I rise in this grievance debate to raise a matter that is certainly of some moment and of great importance to the ethnic communities in this country. It is ironic to hear the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  shedding crocodile tears for pensioners. It would be more fitting if he stood up in his caucus room and demanded that the Government do something more practical about improving the lot of pensioners. 
My grievance concerns the Government's failure to implement its promises with regard to migrant education and the admission by the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  at question time yesterday that he had no interest or involvement in assisting migrants to gain a proficiency in the English language. Before the last election the coalition parties released an election manifesto entitled 'Immigration and Ethnic Affairs Policy' which stated that an understanding of the language, presumably English, was the most serious prob.em  to face many migrants. However, the Government's record in assisting migrants to learn English over the last 18 months has proved how hollow this promise was, as with so many of the Government's promises. This document, which goes into about 4 pages of drivel, is about as empty as the policy to which I have made reference. An article in the  Sydney Morning Herald  on Saturday 2 1 May, revealed how far the Government's commitment extends. The article read: 
The Federal Government has rejected a State Government submission that money for teaching English to adult migrants in New South Wales be doubled to about $5.8m in this year's Federal Budget. 
The Federal Minister for Education,  Senator Carrick,  has indicated to the State Government that the allocation will be about $3.5m-only $700,000 more than the present sum . . . 
They say it is under-staffed, badly housed, underequipped and unable to meet the needs of growing numbers of adult migrants . . . 
These are people who wish to give effect to the call by the Liberal-National Country Party Government. But what words of wisdom, what pearls, do we hear from the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)?  The same article said: 
Federal Treasury rejected requests earlier this year to remedy a further problem: The allowance paid to adult migrants learning English fulltime is several dollars less than unemployment benefits. 
It has now reached the stage where the living allowance is $11 less than the unemployment benefit. That is an absolute disgrace. The honourable member for Franklin, if he has the future and the wellbeing of people at heart, also ought to have a go at that in the caucus room. 
The Government also has failed to implement the findings contained in the report of the House  of Representatives Select Committee on Specific Learning Difficulties on the teaching of migrant languages in schools. This report was published in March 1 976, but the Government still has not committed any funds to ensure that migrants and their children are given the opportunity to gain proficiency not only in English but also in thenmother tongue. If this opportunity is not given we will have a second-class standard for migrant children- children whom we have encouraged to come to this country- because they will not be able to achieve to their maximum. As I have said before, they are trying to put their backsides on 2 stools at once and if nothing is done they are destined to carry out the meagre tasks in this society because they will not have been given the same opportunities to achieve as others have been given. A newspaper article has reported  Mrs Daphne  Merry of the Migrant Education Action Committee as saying:  ... a report on the teaching of migrant languages in schools compiled by Professor Michael Clyne of Monash University snowed there was a great need for language teachers at the primary level. 
I was a member of the Select Committee on Specific Learning Difficulties, and the evidence is of such a nature that it must be accepted that this state of affairs exists. We have teachers who are trying to do their best and to carry out the task that they have been trained to do, but  Mrs Daphne  Merry has said that more than 1 500 Victorian teachers qualified to teach migrant languages are being forced to teach other subjects and the Committee has indicated clearly that this is the case. So, this great document was a facade in the deception of the community, in particular the migrants, prior to the last election. 
Day by day we see the efforts that are made in respect of this and other matters of social welfare. In Appropriation Bill (No. 3), which was debated earlier this year, we saw that expenditure on part-time instruction under the adult migrant education program was to be cut by $74,000. Expenditure on the child migrant education program was to be cut by $983,400. Also, $419,000 was to be cut from the expenditure on the adult migrant education program. The spending on migrant education programs was reduced by 2 per cent in real terms in this year's Budget. A saving of approximately $4,000 will be made in division 274/30 1 under the item of special investigations of the Schools Commission. One could go on and on and point to the inadequacies of the policies of the Government and its deception. 
When I raised this matter yesterday in the House I asked a question along the lines I have outlined. What did we get from the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs? He said that the shadow spokesman had been here for 17 months and directed a question to me. It has nothing to do with me. He says it has nothing to do with him but it is spelt out chapter and verse in the document which was used to pull the wool over migrants' eyes in the election campaign. How does he explain that? How will he explain to the migrant communities in this country that he treats their interests with scant respect? He can go to all the functions he likes, he can pat children on the head and do all the sorts of things which make him attractive to the infant, but what does he do here? He comes into the House and expands on the deception by failing to stand and be counted when these issues and decisions are taken. He supports them chapter and verse. 
There is one other matter which I think is a crying shame when we consider social welfare requirements. Token advances were made to 2 bodies to be established for the purposes of dispensing social welfare to migrant people in this country. A meagre amount was given to a pilot proposition in Victoria. This project is failing miserably because it is not catering for the requirements of people in that State. What about the people in the outer lying areas? Do they have to travel to Melbourne to take advantage of the service? In Sydney it has not even opened. I should have thought that the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Birney),  who would have a number of migrants in his electorate, would be voicing his opinion about the dispensing of social services to the migrants in this country. How long do we keep up this facade? A group of people have been elected to a body. It is just tokenism. There is no real representation from the people who know something about the education issue. When we run into a problem the Government's theory is that all we should do is set up a committee and then start to talk. The Government talks and talks. When it comes to the crunch, when it comes to standing and being counted on the promises which it has made to the migrants and ethnic groups in this country, nothing is forthcoming. 
The facts to which I have referred are only the thin edge of the wedge. It is horrifying to me to anticipate what will happen in the next Budget. I challenge the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs to tell the ethnic groups what he proposes to do. Will he do anything about the funds provided for adult education and English teaching? Will he fight in the party room? If not will he come into the House and support propositions that the Opposition will be raising to correct the situation created by the Government itself. I think that this issue is terribly important. In the interests of ethnic groups I hope that the facade does not continue and that the Minister will stand and be counted. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 2 1 April 1 977: 
Did he state on 9 March 1977  (Hansard,  page 17) that he had refused a lease for extensions to the Canberra Mosque because of the residential nature of the district. 
2 ) Did he make his decision before the National Capital Development Commission had completed its report of the public meeting which was held on 6 December 1976 to hear the views of local residents on the proposed extensions. 
3 ) Is it a fact that, after investigating parking and other planning aspects of the proposed extension, the NCDC reported to the Department of the Capital Territory that there were no planning objections to the proposal. ( 4 1 When did he notify his reasons in writing. 
5 ) What were the reasons. 
6 ) Do the plans for the extensions include parking facilities for up to 50 cars on the site: if so. would these facilities exceed those provided by any Christian denominations in Canberra on their sites in recent years and at the mosques opened at Lakemba. NSW. in October 1 976. at Preston, Victoria in October 1976 and at Coburg, Victoria, in February 1977. 
I address a question to the Acting Prime Minister. I preface it by reminding him that there is a long-standing tradition in this Parliament of ultimate ministerial responsibility for government policies and their implementation by the Public Service. I ask: Is it true that it was Government policy that school leavers should not be paid unemployment benefit in the last long vacation and that this blanket policy was found to be illegal by the High Court? Does the Government accept that this judgment, which was not appealed by the Crown, places a direct responsibility on the relevant Minister to see that the 35 000 young people who were denied unemployment benefit by this illegal policy have their cases reviewed? Can the Acting Prime Minister assure the House that this review will be undertaken? 
I rise to support this matter of public importance. I was glad to hear the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  accept the fact that this is a very serious problem. It is a serious problem. It is also a serious matter for the 30 000 children who should have been entitled to unemployment benefit. The Minister for Health is now departing from the scene. 
-The facts are that on 23 March 1976, in a joint Press statement issued by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  and the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle),  the Government announced that school leavers were not to be paid unemployment benefit in the school vacation period no matter how hard they tried to find employment and were unsuccessful. That statement reads: 
Unemployment benefit be not paid to school leavers during the long vacation but that benefit be paid from the commencement of the new school year if the students do not then return to school or proceed to university. This procedure will operate from the end of the 1 976 school year. 
The Minister claimed that in previous years school leavers had claimed unemployment benefit and then had gone back to school. Despite repeated questions from the Opposition in the other place the Minister for Social Security has not been able to provide any figures on how  many school leavers had done this in previous years. The Government cannot table any legal advising that its action was justified and it cannot provide any statistics to justify its policy. Once again the Minister for Health is vacating the scene. The Minister for Health also was unable to provide any evidence. So we have had the Minister for Social Security being challenged in the other place to produce statistics and we have had the Minister for Health stand up in this place today and go on with a lot of twaddle but produce no evidence whatsoever. 
The Government's action in relation to unemployment benefit is an example of the welshing of the Government and the total disregard that it has for those people who, unfortunately, find themselves in the situation of being unemployed. This arbitrary and quite callous policy decision was implemented by the Commonwealth Employment Service and the Department of Social Security during the long vacation. Section 7 of the Social Services Act binds the DirectorGeneral of Social Services to act on the direction of the Minister for Social Security. The Minister for Social Security had directed that this policy be implemented. The Government was responsible for its introduction and the Government must accept responsibility for its implications. 
Great play was made by the Minister once again of the fact that the plaintiff had sought an order that she was entitled to the benefit. The judge said in his judgment that he could not give such an order. As a consequence it naturally follows that the Government is not entitled to direct the Director-General. The Government has put him in a straight jacket. It has stood over him. What he is doing is mouthing the policies of the Government. The Government will find it difficult to side step this issue. The community at large and school leavers in particular will be bearing down on the Minister for Social Security and the Minister for Health in this respect. The High Court subsequently found that this blanket policy was contrary to the provisions of the Social Services Act.  His  Honour found that the Director-General should not have taken the Government's policy on unemployment benefits for school leavers into account when determining whether  Ms Karen  Green was eligible for benefits. In other words,  His  Honour found that this policy was illegal, and the Government did not bother to appeal against the decision because it knew that such an appeal was useless. The Solicitor-General had originally advised the Department and the Government that they would lose the case and they did. Having failed in its attempt to bypass Parliament, the Government and the Minister searched around for another reason to deny  Ms Green  and the 35 000 other eligible school leavers their rightful income and support. Last Friday the Director-General of Social Services found that  Ms Green  had not taken reasonable steps to find employment. It is quite clear and concise what has happened. The Government once again has stood over the Director-General to hide its embarassment for the callous and frightful policy it had initiated in the first instance. It decided that  Ms Green  and the 35 000 other eligible school leavers would be pawns in a game of chess. The Director-General in a Press statement said: 
I am not satisfied that by 20 December 1 976 she had taken reasonable steps to obtain work suitable to be undertaken by her. 
I therefore determine that on 20 December 1976 she was not qualified to receive an unemployment benefit. 
What a load of rot.  Ms Green  made extensive efforts to find employment. She first registered for employment with the Commonwealth Employment Service on 27 November 1976, and she was told that no work was available for her on that date and again on 20 December. Evidence was tendered in the High Court that  Ms Green  had made intensive efforts to find employment during this period including repeated visits to 2 private employment agencies. We might wonder what criteria the Director-General used in reaching this decision and what constitutes reasonable efforts to find employment. We might wonder whether these efforts were enough and what else she was expected to do to find employment. There was no way that the Minister for Social Security was going to allow the Director-General out of a straight jacket. He was to carry out the Government policy whether he liked it or not. The truth is that the Government is determined to ignore the High Court judgment and it will not pay these benefits to school leavers no matter what the legality of its actions. Why else would the Government refuse to review the case of 35 000 school leavers who most probably are eligible for benefits? It is the Minister's duty to instruct the Director-General to review these cases. She has the power under section 7 of the Act and she must use it. The Government must stop hiding behind the skirts of the DirectorGeneral and accept its responsibility to set right this disastrous and illegal policy. 
The Opposition has said that it believes that school leavers are entitled to unemployment benefits. They have felt the impact of Government unemployment policies in a disproportionate way. It is bad enough to suffer the frustration of not being able to obtain a first job but it is worse to suffer the indignity of total dependence on others. The Minister for Health, who is at the table, made great play about the unemployment situation under the Labor Government. What is the case today? More people are receiving the unemployment benefit at present than ever before. What is the Government doing in terms of policy? 
That is true. Karen Green has been made a scapegoat for the callous policies of the Government. She had sufficient fortitude to continue to fight her case against crushing odds of Government indifference. She took her case to the High Court which found in her favour. 
The Government's harsh attitude to Karen is characteristic of its general attitude to the unemployed. Indeed, the Government is inhuman and inflexible to all wage earners and those who want to become wage earners. But beyond that the Government flies in the face of the High Court decision and persists with its refusal to pay unemployment benefits. This action can be described only as bloody mindedness. There is no excuse for such behaviour. Clearly the Department did not make an independent decision. It is clear from the Government's statement how the Director-General was expected to interpret the matter, how he was expected to make decisions along these lines. This question of the statement was followed by a buck passing exercise, with the Government shifting whatever blame it could back onto the Department. We heard the Minister in another place go to great lengths in an endeavour to do that. It is clear that Karen satisfied the criteria for receiving the benefit. It is unbelievable that a girl with the tenacity to take her case to the highest court in the land would not have pursued every job opportunity possible. Dismissal of her application on a technicality is a clear extension of the Government's policy of bashing the unemployed. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I rise to add my condolences on the passing of  President  Makarios, a great world figure. Cyprus, to many of us, is a far away country but we must remember that it has played a part in English history and, more importantly, it has given a strand to the Australian character. The contributions of Cypriots need no mention on an occasion such as this. They, like me, regret the passing of such a great man. The British had two contacts with Cyprus. In 1191 Richard the Lionheart conquered Cyprus for 80 days. The second British occupation began in 1878 and lasted for 80 years. The first contact put an end to an independent Cyprus; the second came to an end by an agreement which established an independent Cyprus. Credit for that goes to the man we mourn today. Whatever his detractors may say, the Archbishop proved himself a consummate politician. He presided over the full spectrum of political life, stretching from the  extreme  Right to the extreme Left. 
He refused to repress any political orientation and, for a short time, he paid for his generosity. The main theme of his life was collaboration for the common good. The Christian faith moulded his character and gave him the character we so admired. He was a man of the people; a broadminded, modern man whose experience of life was varied. He always stressed that he was firstly an archbishop and secondly a head of state. That broadmindedness was founded on the cornerstone of what he described as his Christianity. He was born in 1913, the son of a part farmer, part shepherd in the Troodos Mountains. He grew up helping his father in the fields. But he grew up in the shadow of the Orthodox church because near his village he could see the clock tower of Kykko a famous monastery. His uncle was a priest. He helped his uncle prepare the mass and in painting the church. Finally, he became a monk. He was sent to complete his studies at the most famous school in Cyprus, namely, the Pansprian Gymnasium in Nicosia. 

 His Beatitude, the  President,  did not spare himself in the struggle to free the Cypriot people from the yoke of oppression. He was tireless in demanding that the United Nations' decisions on Cyprus be implemented and that the principle contained in those decisions be made the basis of a negotiated settlement. He worked for a formula which would safeguard the independent sovereignty, territorial integrity and nonalignment of the Republic of Cyprus. It was my pleasure to be received by the late  President  on two occasions.  His  strength of character, sharpness of mind and dedication to the cause of a united Cyprus came through in a way which stamped him as a great patriot. I am sure that every Australian and particularly the members of this Parliament will join with me in expressing the view that the cause for which  His  Beatitude lived and for which he gave his life- a just and lasting peace for a united Cyprus based on the resolutions of the United Nations- will be achieved and will be a lasting tribute to his memory. I support the motion moved by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser). 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honourable members standing in their places. 
I rise to support the matter of public importance raised by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis).  It is obvious that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  is unrepentant about the deliberate, outrageous, vile, detestable attack he made on workers in this country, in particular migrant workers. The Minister has claimed that the speech was made to a small group of people in a country town, but in fact copies of the speech were put into the Press boxes in the Press Gallery in Parliament House and therefore it was meant to get the publicity it did. Further, the Minister quoted a statement by  Dr Hearn  as supporting his stand. In the Melbourne .  Sun  on 1 1 August an article appeared under the  headline 'Sinclair gets a blast. Produce facts- expert'. The Minister has not produced any facts today.  His  claims have been biased and unsubstantiated.  Dr Hearn  is quoted as saying, amongst other things: 
All Australians would do themselves a lot more credit if they examined the causes of conflict rather than blame British migrants. 
She is further quoted as saying: 
Australia can ill-afford to fan the flames of racial tension. 
That is what  Dr Hearn  thinks about the Minister's remarks. I will have a few words to say about all these people the Minister has won to his side in a few moments. This is the action of a desperate individual whose long history of vicious union bashing is well known. The depths of degradation to which he and his colleagues will sink in order to take the heat off the Government for its abysmal failure to add up as a government are hard to imagine. Having weakened the economy- deliberately wrecked it- and deliberately created record unemployment levels, they are now callously and deliberately imposing the burden of their inadequacies on the backs of workers- in particular, migrant workers in this country. This phoney attempt to shift the blame from the Government is being exposed day after day by people in the community who are demanding that the Government get on with the job. The outburst by the  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party has brought to the light of day the evil and vicious intent underlying the Government's tactics in this matter. He talks in terms of having the support of individuals in country organisations. But my friend, the honourable member for Gellibrand, referred to  Mr Cassell  who was, until a few days ago, an official of the National Country Party. He made certain remarks in the newspaper  Stock and Land.  I wonder how much support the Government and in particular the Minister is getting from the Cattlemen's Union of Australia which  Mr Cassell  now heads. He said: 
The union has been militant, favouring direct action. ...  Mr Cassell  has said that his union represents 'desperate men' who regard militancy as the best weapon to force government action. 
He said: 'If things are not going well and we do not get a reasonable response to our pleas, we will be forced to be far more aggressive. 
That could mean withholding stock from the market and other forms of direct action*. 
I wonder what category  Mr Cassell  would come into? If he happened to be a British migrant, would he be sought out for special attention? I wonder whether he would be deported. 
To ensure that  Mr Cassell  's statement is regarded as taking the Minister to task about his union bashing, let me quote from a Press release- it is not a comment- signed by Barry Cassell and dated Sunday, 14 August 1977. He talks about Tuesday night's Budget as an opportunity for the Federal Government to reduce the burden on country Australia. He said that to do this, 3 key elements are necessary, including redistribution away from country people of some of the unfair costs of controlling inflation. The third point he makes is that there should be positive policy initiatives to replace negative British and union bashing. What  Mr Cassell  thinks about the actions and the ravings of the Minister is well defined in his statement. The Minister's tactics are a desperate attempt to hoodwink the Australian people; to take the minds of people off the further attack that undoubtedly will be made on the living standards of Australian workers in the Budget to be delivered this evening by the prince of posers, the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch).  The tactics are doomed to failure, however, because the people of this country have had enough of this Government's incompetence and dishonesty.  Mr Sinclair  has not proved his allegations that the British disease, whatever that is, has been imported into Australia, nor has he said who imported it. On the contrary, the figures show the real position. Let me state the position in respect to the working days lost and show how the position deteriorated in 1977. The number of working days lost in 1976 due to industrial action represented 70 per cent of the total figure. In 1975 it was 45 per cent and in 1974 it was 40 per cent. It is interesting to note that this represents less than 1 hour, 57 minutes and 12 seconds, to be precise, for each member of the work force. More working days are lost in Australia due to the common cold.  Mr Sinclair  has not proved his argument because he cannot prove, any more than the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  or any of his Ministers can, that there has been an inordinate amount of industrial unrest in Australia. The Prime Minister cannot prove it because the facts tell a different story, as I have indicated. But it suited  Mr Sinclair  to pick out some phrases that he found temporarily appealing and to voice it about the countryside. It is an old technique of taking a lie or a half truth and repeating it ad nauseam in the hope that some people might find it convenient to believe it.  Mr Sinclair  has certainly managed to flush out the fascists in our society. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! Is the honourable member quoting from material? If not, he should refer to the honourable member as the Minister for Primary Industry. 
It is the old technique of taking a lie or a half truth and repeating it. This has been done by the Deputy Leader of the National Country Party. He thought that the deportation of a few British unionists would solve the problem. But this was not enough for some of his followers. He gathered around him all these elements in the community. One of these followers was interviewed on the television program  This Day Tonight  last week. She thought that deportation was not good enough. This wealthy Sydney dowager, Lady Braddon, thought that the penalty should be something more final. She did not want to say what she meant by that, but plainly she was implying something along the lines of shooting being too good for them. That is the sort of situation that is created by the irresponsible statements of the Minister. 
Migrant workers, in particular British migrant workers, are being sought out for special treatment. They will have the threat of deportation hanging over their heads like the sword of Damocles. This is what is happening. It is designed to create tame cat unions so that they are easy prey for the people who support this Government. The Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  who will follow me in the debate must dissociate himself from the remarks of the Minister for Primary Industry. On the issue of deportation, he has to guarantee migrants in this country that the threat of deportation will not be used as a weapon against individuals. The Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs shakes his head. He has an obligation to do as I suggest. 
-It is not a matter of getting excited. The patronising way in which the Minister answered a question I asked him this afternoon about citizenship is indicative of his attitude. For instance, I nope that the deportation sections of the Immigration Act are not implemented in accordance with the wishes of the  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party. I hope that the Minister will not exercise his discretion in the way he did when dealing with the representations of an Italian worker,  Mr Salemi  who is still under threat of deportation, notwithstanding that three High Court judges indicated that there had been a denial of natural justice and that the other three High Court judges were of the opinion that  Mr Salemi  had been treated unfairly and that the concept of natural justice did not apply in the administration of the Minister's decision under the Immigration Act. The Minister must stand up and be counted. He has to say that justice will apply. In the case of  Mr Salemi.  I wonder whether the Minister can guarantee a reference under the Administrative Decisions (Judicial Review) Act which has been passed but which still has not been proclaimed? I believe it has not been proclaimed because Ministers like the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs want to write into the legislation sections which would not preclude the operation of section 14, of the migration section. I also want a guarantee that this will not happen. The Minister must also stand up and assure migrant workers in this country that this legislation will not be used as a bludgeon to batter them into submission and make them pawns in the game of chess played by the employer organisations represented by honourable members on the government benches. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. In view of the fact that the Government has spent considerable time and taxpayers' money on the Coombs, Bland and Bailey reports, all of which directly relate to the availability of services to migrants and as the Prime Minister is about to announce, for blatant political purposes, yet another inquiry - 
-I rise in this Grievance Day debate to raise a number of matters that relate to the incompetence of this Government and of its allies in Victoria. Huge sums of money are made available to the State governments- I refer now to the Victorian Government in particular- for a whole range of reasons. In the case of the Victorian Government, when that money gets to the point of distribution that is where the skulduggery starts. My colleagues, the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  and the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins),  have referred to some of the deals done during the time that  Mr Vance  Dickie was the Minister of Housing in Victoria. The land buys and illegal deals that went on then had to be seen to be believed. An inquiry will be held, but the matter certainly has not reached that stage yet 
One particular case to which I want to refer is the case in which  Mr Dickie  recommended that the Government buy land from an Adelaide based company, Lensworth Finance Ltd, when it was claimed that, in fact, there were better offers around. The Lensworth company made a cool profit of $ 1.6m in 3 weeks on an option on land at Sunbury, north of Melbourne. The Government made a number of fundamental errors, purposely or otherwise. While people in my electorate are eating the paint off the walls and living in some of the most depressed conditions in which anybody could ever be asked to live, this money is going into the pockets of land dealers and the crooks within those organisations. The Government did not even take the necessary steps to serve notice on the land owners to treat and then to negotiate with them compensation at a value in accordance with the land's current use. At the time the land was agricultural land, but the Victorian Government paid nearly twice its value as agricultural land; it paid for it as residential land. At the same time as the Government was negotiating to buy the land from the Lensworth company at $3.4m, that company allegedly was taking up options to buy the land from the owners for $ 1.8m. A wink is as good as a nod to a blind horse.  Mr Vance  Dickie has been around for a long time; so it could not be said that he is naive. That would seem to me to be a classic example of the skulduggery that has gone on. 
Another instance is when the Urban Land Council bought land at Thomastown that was being developed by Development Underwriting Ltd, which was having a liquidity problem- a problem common to many land dealers. A  Mr Charles  Hider, M.L.C.-a Liberal M.L.C., I might add- is a director of Development Underwriting Ltd. The Urban Land Council purchased land also on Tailors Road, Kealba, which was believed to have been owned by Development Underwriting Ltd or a subsidiary. Both Thomastown and Kealba were inferior locations; there were better locations about. One could be excused for being rather suspicious about this. It just happened that these locations were chosen and the Urban Land Council bailed out the companies or company involved, which had liquidity problems. They were in diabolical circumstances. However, one of their directors happened to be a Liberal M.L.C. Strangely enough, who should come to their assistance and buy this chunk of ground that was not worth the price paid but the Urban Land Council, which is responsible for handling money that is paid in by every taxpayer in this country. 
There are much better programs and much greater areas of need, amongst the migrant groups in particular and amongst the unemployed, on which that money could be better spent instead of paying for the next swimming pool, another day on the golf course, another yacht or a boating expedition by individuals who are none other than land sharks. When one considers the people involved, one might remark that Ned Kelly at least had the decency to wear a mask. 
Another area in which this sort of situation can be clearly pointed to is Geelong. This area clearly involves the Commonwealth Government because, as a growth centre, Geelong relies directly and deliberately on Commonwealth funds. One would have thought that the disbursement of those funds should have been under the direct scrutiny of individuals such as  Mr Dickie,  the Minister of Housing or the Minister of Lands in the Victorian Government- all the individuals who should have been taking the responsibility. But since that time it has become the responsibility of this Government also to ensure that moneys that pass into the hands of those authorities are distributed for the purposes for which they are allocated and do not fill the pockets of land speculators and the crooks I have mentioned. 
Under legislation that was passed by the Victorian Liberal Government land owners in the Geelong region stand to make millions of dollars. Under the legislation- the Geelong Regional Commission Bill- the profits from any rezoning of land for development by the Commission must be paid to the existing land owners. Under those circumstances the land owners at that time stood to receive for each thousand acres thousands of dollars or several millions of dollars more than the existing value of their land. The money would have been provided by public funds allocated to the development of Geelong as a growth centre. It was alleged that the legislation was drawn up by a group of Liberal backbenchers from the Geelong region. The people in the region protested about the situation and alleged- it was later denied- that one of the individuals involved had a vested interest in that legislation being passed by the State Government. How long is this going to go on? 
If the inquiry discloses that it involves, as it no doubt does, particular individuals in the Geelong area as well as money that is allocated through the various councils and authorities in Victoria, which are putting up with this skulduggery, when is the Federal Government going to act? When is the responsible Minister going to ask where this money is going? How is it that companies such as Lensworth Finance Ltd can make enormous profits under the conditions to which I have referred, by negotiating a price which is something like $1.3m higher than the price they are negotiating with the land owners? This was public knowledge because it was challenged at the time. But no action was taken by  Mr Vance  Dickie. All he did was to co-operate in the whole exercise. 
Further to that, we have the case of a son of the  Speaker  of the Victorian Legislative Assembly, aif Ken Wheeler, who sold a farm in the Wodonga district to the Albury-Wodonga Development Corporation, which is sponsored by the Federal Government, the New South Wales Government and the Victorian Government. What happened was that the price paid was greater than the highest bid at auction only a short time before, and after the deal the former owner had his property leased back to him at a low rental. For God's sake, when is this going to cease? It seems to me that the guilty men in Victoria, the colleagues of people who occupy the treasury bench in this Parliament, have to stand up and answer that question. I challenge the responsible Minister to come into this Parliament at some time in the future and give an explanation as to why taxpayers ' money is going down the drain. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-We have just heard the ravings of the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Burr),  who has claimed that the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman),  who sits on his right, is a grouper. The definition of a grouper is a treacherous individual who undermines the trade union movement. That is a case of the pot calling the kettle black. If ever I have seen two individuals who are like peas in a pod, it is those two honourable members. The back benchers in particular have claimed clearly that there might not be much in the Bill but there is 8 per cent in it in an election campaign, and that is the whole resolve of the individual who has just sat down and of his grouper mates on the back bench. In my time in this Parliament I have never heard such a collection of illogical speeches from members on the Government side. Even the two Ministers who have spoken failed to get their lines straight. 
It is interesting to note that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the Minister with the responsibility for the Public Service, did not see fit to introduce the Bill. That was done by the angry ant, the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street),  in a speech so short that one could only draw the conclusion that either he did not know what he was talking about or he was quite deliberately taking a debating point and trying to leave this side of the House floundering because it was unable to see copies of the Bill. Our principal spokesman had only one hour to look at the legislation. Our other speakers had two minutes to comb the fine print and two minutes to decide their attitudes. If that is the standard of this Government, if we are to be treated to a display of schoolboy tricks, then the community will judge the sort of people with whom we are dealing. At the time when the Government goes to the people, they will judge it in its true perspective. 
From the somewhat pathetic displays of the Government side, it has become quite apparent that this Bill was prepared at the time of the strike by the air traffic controllers. On that occasion we heard grave threats from the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  about what the Government might do. Now we have heard from two Ministers that at present there is no intention to use the legislation. They are hopeful, they say, that it will be unnecessary. What nonsense. They are simply spoiling for a fight, and they will get it. As the Minister for Kingsford-Smith nas pointed out, if ever there was going to be - 
-He will be shortly. If ever there was a confrontation situation this is it and the honourable member wherever he comes from who is now one of the Ministers on the front bench and who sold his soul - 
He knows as well as I know that industrial relations in this country have been built up over a long period of time. He knows that the late Commissioner Chambers enunciated the philosophy of looking at both parts of the legislation. He knows that there has never been one dispute or strike resolved by using the back of the axe, and if he had any guts he would stand up and say so. All the pathetic displays we have heard today have been based on the same concept. If the two Ministers who have spoken in this debate had been in contact with the real world they would have learnt the simple lesson that whoever goes looking for a fight will always find one and will generally lose. Those of us who have watched the political process over the years have a sense of regret at the way in which this Government acts. What is missing is the professional approach and technique of a person whom I politically despise but who at least had a bit of finesse about him-  Sir Robert  Menzies. He introduced terrible legislation but always with a flair and he never gave a terrible performance such as we have seen today. Over the years penal provisions were introduced with some sort of sophistication. But this back of the axe method we are now seeing is indicative only of the dictatorship of the individual who controls, as the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  said today, the puppets on the other side of the House. He is also the individual who controls the executive government of this country and he dictates the pace. All this rabble, all the puppets and the Charlie McCarthys - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! I suggest that the honourable member for Melbourne rephrase some of his sentences and restrict his comments. 
-I will do so,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  Right from the start the job has been botched. There was a hurried Party meeting this morning, a deliberately false statement was placed on the Blue Paper by the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair),  there was the leaking of the news to the Melbourne  Herald  before 10 a.m., the leaking of the news to the radio stations, and suddenly the matter has become one of urgency. The guillotine is applied with a cut-off point for debate of 9 p.m., on one of the most crucial issues to come before the House. The Government says that the time will be 9.30 p.m., but to get this matter finalised by 9.30 p.m., surely the gag will have to be applied around 9 p.m. I can say little more than that about the tactics of the Government. I have said before that those tactics resemble schoolboy tactics. Instead of the approaches of the past we are to have this juvenile approach. 
The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations in mealy-mouthed terms failed to mention in his second reading speech that the whole purpose of the Bill was to deal with the postal dispute. He talked about Commonwealth employees. But what has this wizard of industrial relations done? He has dusted off the legislation prepared months ago and suddenly presented it in the Parliament. It is a pity he did not take the trouble to tell the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  that the ploy was to claim that this Bill was to apply to all Federal workers. The Minister for Post and Telecommunications then blew the gaff. He put in the usual painful bit about hoping that the legislation would not be used and then admitted that it was aimed directly at the postal workers. 
What is the theme of the Government's approach? It is that honourable members in this House should turn their face against the principles of the conciliation and arbitration legislation. No honourable member should reject the standards of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and I already have indicated what has happened in the past to the detriment of governments who have endeavoured to destroy the conciliation and arbitration process in this country and in the United Kingdom. They suffered the same fate. There was the Bruce-Page Government in this country and the Heath Government in the United Kingdom, and this Government will suffer the same consequences. Honourable members opposite, who are here like Charlie McCarthys, have a nerve in supporting this Bill, and the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown)  ought to hang his head in shame. I am sure that his father would have dissociated himself from this sort of legislation and the honourable member should stand up and have the guts to do so too. Perhaps the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, provided that he knows himself, should tell the Minister for Post and Telecommunications what conciliation is all about. 
This Bill is just a back door method of reintroducing penal clauses into the Conciliation and 
Arbitration Act as they were during the 1960s. At least during the 1960s penal clauses were inserted in a more sophisticated way but they led to the same disastrous consequences as this confrontation will have. This legislation will not resolve the postal dispute. It wil not resolve any dispute just as it did not resolve disputation during the 1960s.  Mr Speaker,  who was an advocate in the industrial court at the same time as I was, knows that the sophisticated introduction of union bashing and using the back of the axe in industrial relations just does not pay off. The honourable member for Balaclava who is the Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee)  hangs his head and so he should. The penal clauses m 1960s resulted in the gaoling of a union official.  Mr Clarrie  O'Shea from the Tramway Workers Union went to gaol but after that no more fines were paid following litigation in the industrial court. If honourable members think by any stretch of their imagination that these provisions before us will have any more impression on people who have a different concept of industrial relations to the industrial amateurs opposite it seems to me that they are heading for a confrontation which they will lose. 
So far as the Opposition is concerned the Minister for Post and Telecommunications should not be blamed. He is so busy on other activities such as closing down the Australian Broadcasting Commission, dealing with the citizen band radio, helping commercial television to reduce Australian content and other things that go to turn the toil of Australian workers into profits for the cartels and other individuals. Recently we had the brave words of the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott),  the champion of the rule of law against all unfettered administrative decisions. He introduced the Administrative Appeals Tribunal and the ombudsman institution. He is even prouder of his Act called the Administrative Decisions (Judicial Review) Act which is a final cornerstone in preventing unfettered administrative decisions. Unfortunately that Act will never be proclaimed. This Government will continue to bring in Bills like this giving total discretion to anyone and if Government supporters doubt how far the enormous powers contained within this legislation go they should look at clause 13 of the Bill. This power can be delegated down to the foreman on the shop floor who would have total unfettered discretion to suspend and dismiss regardless of any conciliation or arbitration practice. This power can be placed in the hands of anyone. 
I turn now to some clauses of the Bill. In clause 3 wc find definitions. There is a definition of 
Commonwealth authority as one which, incorporated or not, is established for a public purpose under the law of the Commonwealth or a Territory. This legislation can go as far as embracing bodies like the Canberra Showground Trust, and the Government might be inclined to change even its method of working sometimes. Worse still, the legislation could cover the employee of any company in which the Commonwealth has a controlling interest and, although this Bill does not tell us what is a controlling interest, I would not be surprised if that expression meant the same as it does under company law, that is, a lot less than 5 1 per cent of the shareholding. Even a notional shareholding will do. So any company which has any government interest in its shareholding will need to be careful and so will its employees. Its operations could be brought to a halt by the simplest action of any delegate. Then we have the delegation of authority in a most fascist way as well as a definition of 'industrial action' for which three categories are given. The first refers to when work is performed in a way different from that in which it is customarily performed. The safety issue comes up if the work method changes to increase productivity and if one of the bright suggestions is put into operation. In any of these cases there can be suspensions and dismissals. Here, the true intent comes through. It is back to the 19th century attitude towards work in the mines- 'do what you are told regardless of the consequences'. Safety is now at the mercy of any delegate of this power. 
The next provision relates to any ban on accepting or offering for work. I wonder what that means. Does it mean that if someone fails to accept work when he is offered it, the whole of the organisation is to be suspended or dismissed? Finally there is the unauthorised failure to attend for work. The Government cannot congratulate itself on abolishing what might be regarded as a legitimate absence from work if the individual is sick. 
It will now have the power to dismiss anyone at all. 
You are the filthiest fascist I have ever struck in my life. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! 

-I withdraw that statement. Clause 4 is even wider. If I am reading it correctly, if a single Commonwealth employee engages in some industrial action everyone who has taken part will suffer the same fate. Unionists who vote for action and those who fail to vote will all be caught in the net. This is the sort of thing to which this Bill leads in order to take control of all union activities. 
Clause 10 seems to be even wider than ever. It will be possible to retain non-unionists and lay off unionists. If ever we have seen an illustration of supporting scabs, this legislation goes to the very heart of it. That is what the Government, and those individuals who sit on its benches, especially the cow cockies in the corner, is all about. Clause 5 is all about standing people down. As the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  has pointed out, a strike on the waterfront in London or at an airport in New York which delays the mails will enable the standing down of employees in Australia. All that is needed is for the delegate to declare that they cannot be usefully employed or that there is a serious disruption of the functions of the employing authority and the suspensions can take place. That provision is not aimed at striking workers; it is a direct step in the process of union bashing. Anyone stood down receives no pay or, if the delegate is so minded, some amount of pay which is set out in the notice. 
For what purpose has this concept been developed? The Opposition and the Parliament have been deprived of all these questions which should have been asked in an intelligent sense in this Parliament. What dictatorship can anyone point to that would be worse than that? Once again the honourable member for Balaclava hangs his head. So he should. He is a phoney and a traitor to the cause he once believed in. 
I support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam).  I listened very intently to the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter),  the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly)  and the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman)  who made speeches that related to analogies that one would have to be half mad even to accept as having a relationship to the real and dire problems involved in this matter. 
-The honourable members who laugh their heads off, including the honourable member for Higgins, might do well to reflect on part of a resolution passed by a group of church organisations. Referring to 'we' as individuals, it stated: 
We are charged to be caretakers of Creation not only for ourselves, but for future generations. 
I put this part of the resolution to members of the House: 
Even if tonight were the world's last night . . . 
It may be - the decisions we take should be such that future generations would have no cause to curse us. 
That ought to weigh heavily on the shoulders of members of this House. The way in which this Government has rushed in to make a decision, with indecent haste, will stand very much to its detriment in future. I sincerely hope and trust that the course of future events does not bring about terrible and horrific consequences that result from the decisions that the Government has taken. I have heard a great deal about the debates that have ensued on this issue. Let me put it to the House that the debates that have ensued have been in this ivory tower, here in the abstract, pouring words of wisdom over the great unwashed, telling them what they will be committed to in future. The reality of this matter has never reached the stage at which an informed electorate- informed people- could judge for themselves what they wanted to do about the development of this industry in future. We are about to enter a plutonium society. 
If the electors have the honourable member for Higgins to advise them, Christ help them. They will finish up with a darn in their tie, two heads or something or the other. He is about as ill-informed as those whom we ask to accept our decisions- the decisions of parliamentarians, legislators who deem to know all about the plutonium society. I believe that members of this House do not know. If we reflect on the first reactor that produced the bombs that fell on Hiroshima or Nagasaki- those who have seen the result and the terrifying concept of what can develop out of this industry would know- I wonder whether honourable members opposite might have a second thought about the decisions taken, with great haste, in the immediate past and about to be taken this evening when the vote is taken. I worked in the industry. I know something about the isotopes that was not known at the time they were used in industry. There was no protection from radiation for the individuals involved. 
-I will answer that question. The hilarity of the honourable member for Bradfield, who is a complete and utter idiot - 
I will withdraw the remark. 
-I will let others be the judge. 
-That is all you can do. 
-Two or three points ought to be made. Can we say with certainty what results will flow from the mining of uranium? There is no need to disbelieve the reasons for apprehension which have been projected in articles time after time, on which honourable members can reflect and to which they can be referred. Honourable members opposite cannot hope to salve their consciences when they read that 8,000 pounds of uranium was lost in the United States. Surely that relates to the questions of protection and safeguards. 
One could pose the question: Why would we be so anxious to ensure that the waste did not return to Australia if we were convinced that there was no problem? The Government is saying: 'Buy it and take it away- all care, no responsibility. We do not care if it kills people over there, but do not bring it to Australia'. The Government is absolving itself of its obligation to protect individual human beings, wherever they might be. That is something that the Government is not prepared to face up to, but it is something that it must face up to in all conscience. 
Honourable members opposite should ask themselves about the medical consequences of these issues. On the evidence available they can never be satisfied that there is adequate protection against the waste of the plutonium industry. Why are honourable members silent right now? The Fox reports refer to the Atomic Energy Act and state that it cannot be used. They advise against its use. Yet that is the Act under which the Government says it will operate in respect of uranium mining. It is going to use this Act to bludgeon people into submission in respect of mining uranium. We see the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  stating unequivocally that that is what the Government is going to use. The giggler, the honourable member for Bradfield, is at it again. All the poppycock that appears in the statement made to the House by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  clearly indicates that point. That is beyond question. Appeals will be made to the High Court concerning the use of that particular Act for this purpose. 
Have not honourable members opposite enough guts to present appropriate legislation in this House concerning the appropriate penalties which should be provided, so that that measure can be debated in the various arenas? The Government is running away from the issue. Once again, it is proceeding with indecent haste. We have seen the individuals sitting opposite trying to legislate to provide the wherewithal for the people who run them, that is, the mining interests in this community. The Government is providing these interests with an out because it can see what would result from a further debate on the realities of the introduction of this particular measure. 
Another point relates to the so-called bonanza that is going to provide the 'pie in the sky when you die' in the form of jobs for individuals. The fall in demand for nuclear energy in Europe, Japan and the United States is well known. The reality is that throughout the industrialised countries nuclear power programs are being cut back. This is happening for two reasons, the first being that a growing number of citizens are opposed to nuclear power in those countries. I tabled a petition yesterday from 2 1 ,000 signatories who were in opposition to the decisions that have been taken by the Government. In Spain last month 200,000 people turned up at an anti-nuclear rally. In West Germany nearly two million people belonged to anti-nuclear groups. The opposition in Germany has become so important that the Social Democratic Government will soon announce a moratorium on nuclear power station construction. 
Secondly, there is the uneconomic nature of nuclear power. For example, Japan's reactors operated at only 30 per cent efficiency during 1975. After an improvement last year, efficiency was down 31 per cent in the first three months of this year. The reduction in nuclear power programs can be seen in figures illustrating nuclear capacity in the member countries of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development in 1985. 
The claim concerning the jobs that will be provided as a result of the mining of uranium are fallacious. The Government is building up this fallacy as another election gimmick leading up to a general election in May next year. The Government is claiming that this will be the saving grace of the economy. The Government cannot do anything more than that about the economy. It has to have a gimmick. It has to have something because there is nothing in the barrel. It has this great individual, the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch),  who stands up here every day and does a song and dance act, but he can never answer a question on the economy. 
We have heard ridiculous claims by the uranium lobbyists. For instance, on 26 August 
PRESENT UNEMPLOYED 
last the Murdoch Press carried the claim that 500,000 jobs would be created by the uranium mining bonanza. An expansion of the uranium mining industry of that scale would bring profound problems to the manufacturing industries of Melbourne and Sydney. Uranium mining on that scale would produce vast export revenues which compensating imports or revaluation of the dollar would have to insure. If the claims which are being made are true, it would create a great economic problem, but they are completely untrue. They cannot be justified, nor can they be substantiated. 
I draw honourable members' attention to the fact that something like 16.9 per cent of the kids aged between 15 and 19 years who were born overseas are currently unemployed.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I seek leave to have the tables outlining these statistics incorporated in  Hansard. 

 The documents read as follows- 


<graphic href="106131197709073_44_0.jpg"></graphic>

(Source: ABS  Labour Force  May 1977: 9) 

<graphic href="106131197709073_45_1.jpg"></graphic>

-An examination of those tables indicates that by 1981 somewhere in the vicinity of one million jobs will have disappeared. If we project forward to 1981 the current unemployment figures, which would be in real terms nearly half a million people, we can see from this what the situation will be, with the ongoing problem of the unavailability of jobs for kids who will be coming out of schools, if we are not going to do -better than what the uranium industry can do in providing jobs. We will have a permanent pool of unemployed which the Government will have to do something about. 
All the issues of concern are outlined in the proposed amendment to the motion which is before the House. Insufficient safeguards are contained in the measures which have been decided upon by the Government. As I have pointed out already, the  Deputy  Prime Minister has misled the people in terms of how these measures will be introduced. A whole range of jobs will disappear in the future. Time after time scientists, who have a far greater capacity to understand this matter, have outlined the problems that can be envisaged for the immediate future. 
The honourable member for Bradfield, for God's sake, talked about an individual walking in front of the motor car when it first found its way on to the Australian market to ensure that people understood that it presented some dangers. He compared a vehicle that runs off the road- and that is that- with the development of nuclear energy whereby isotopes have been developed over a period of time, some of them previously unknown isotopes that could have terrible and horrific consequences without proper technological advances to satisfy the safety requirements of this country. What a comparison! 
If we are going to sell lethal weapons, surely we have to place ourselves in a position of responsibility. This debate has taken place with indecent haste. It is not a question of whether we are going to sell our mineral resources for the benefit of honourable members opposite to try to retain them in government, because they are not going to remain in that position. The consequences to human beings, both here and overseas, will be horrific. If the Government makes this decision to mine uranium it will regret it. 
-Today I wish to raise a matter of importance, not just to people in my electorate, but to every ethnic group in our community. In fact, it is a matter of importance to every Australian for we have a Minister in this Government who is pursuing a vendetta against one man, one Italian migrant who is serving his fellow Italians. Why is he pursuing this vendetta? He is doing it at the behest of a few members of the Italian community who are highly placed in the Liberal Party of Australia. 
Let me briefly outline what has happened in relation to Ignazio Salemi. He came to this country to assist FILEF, an organisation which might be likened to the Australian Council of Trade Unions. He came as a social worker, mainly to assist migrant Italian workers. He came on a temporary basis and when it was ap- parent that his work was unfinished he applied to ave his visa extended. This Government, with this Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar),  were not having any of that. They declared an amnesty for people who were in the country illegally.  Mr Salemi  asked to be treated on the same basis as those who were here illegally. 
Then we saw the technicalities creep in. The Minister, or perhaps his stooges in his Department, said that  Mr Salemi  was not eligible for treatment under the amnesty because he was here legally. Since then the High Court of Australia has criticised the actions of the Government; so has the Ombudsman. But what is the result? Last Friday the Minister signed a deportation order. 
I have presented several petitions to this House relating to  Mr Salemi-  petitions which contained some 20,000, 30,000 or 40,000 signatures of Italians in the community. Because of that support I want today to spell out the full details of the actions which have been taken. I want to do that so the ethnic groups of the community can see what this Government is prepared to do. This Minister had the effrontery to say the other day that the real problem of migrants was 'emotional poverty'. Never mind all those other problems; it is emotional poverty which the migrant suffers according to him. The Minister suffers from poverty of the mind. He shows a lack of understanding of ordinary principles of fair play, correct conduct and natural justice. 
Let me give the facts about  Mr Salemi.  He came to Australia first in September 1973 to participate in the first migrant workers' conference. He came because the committee of FILEF in Melbourne had asked him in his role as editor of a monthly publication entitled  Emigrazione,  published by FILEF in Rome. He was later asked to return to Australia for a certain period to assist in establishing a welfare office for the Italian communities in the areas of Coburg and Brunswick and also to establish a newspaper in the Italian language so that these people would be assisted in their integration into Australia society. Above all, they were to be assisted by being informed of the many rights which their new country afforded them. 
So in February 1974  Mr Salemi  came back to Australia and helped to establish a welfare office in Coburg. The newspaper  Nuovo Paese  was established in May 1974. In the area of Coburg and Brunswick there is a very large ethnic population. They came to the centre in their hundreds. They came with all their problems- with applications for pensions, insurance and workers compensation problems, unemployment and sickness benefits problems, rent problems, hire purchase problems, educational problems, problems with income tax returns and applications for Housing Commission homes. They came because at that centre there were people who could speak their language and who could understand their problems. They developed a pride in the centre for it was a free welfare agency which they had established themselves. 
Even when the Labor Government, in cooperation with the State Government, started the north west one-stop welfare shop, commonly known as NOW, they continued to throng to the FILEF welfare centre. Perhaps it was for reasons of trust, perhaps it was for ease of communication, perhaps it was because they had a pride in their own efforts; but it worked. Co-ordinating it all was Ingazio Salemi. He has the journalistic touch to express things properly in the newspaper. He is multilingual, able to speak Italian, Spanish, Hungarian, French and English at least. He is the link between many of the groups. He is the real communicator between the migrant community in that area and their rights in the Australian community. 
So successful has been his work that FILEF activities grew and grew in Melbourne. Branches have been formed in Queensland, New South Wales, South Australia and the Australian Capital Territory. Through it all the Italian community has begged him to stay. Well, most of them have begged him to stay. Of course, there are a few wealthy Italians who do not want him to stay. They do not want someone in their midst who is able to explain the rights of a worker to a worker. They have spoken to their colleagues in the Liberal Party. ' Get rid of this man', they said and, for good measure, they added: 'He is a communist'. One of these people approached me when the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  was Minister for Labor and Immigration and asked me to see what I could do about getting  Mr Salemi  out of the country because he was a communist, not because of the work he was doing. 
Lest it be thought that I am making this up, let me assure the House that that very proposition was put to me personally by influential Italians who sought my aid. I know that when I say this I shall receive another very irate letter from Lady Braddon in Sydney, to whom I must apologise for having the temerity to refer to her as a wealthy old dowager. At her request I withdraw the term 'wealthy'. But I venture to suggest that membership of the Italian Communist Party is hardly something which makes a man stand out in Italian society. After all, that Party is very close to being the ruling party in that country. 
What if  Mr Salemi  is a member of the Communist Party? Is that good warrant for banishing him from this country? Have we banned communists? The Minister may think so. If that is so, he has a remedy. Section 14 of the Migration Act enables him to order the deportation of anyone who preaches the communist doctrine. Of course, there is one problem for the Minister and his Department: That section gives a person a right of appeal to a commissioner who is a judge of a court. Over the years all sorts of attempts have been made to develop a proper system of appeals in deportation cases. 
The sort of argument that is being put up can easily be seen to be puny when one looks at the report of the committee on administrative discretions. What happened as a result of the presentaton of that report? Appeals are now being made in some deportation cases under sections 12 and 13 of the Migration Act by people who have been convicted of specified crimes within a specified time of their arrival in this country. So there is a right of appeal for people who have committed criminal acts. There is a right of appeal against deportation by the Minister on the grounds of being a communist. But there is no appeal for  Mr Salemi.  He is a social worker. The Minister hides behind technicalities, including the claim that there are plenty of journalists in Australia. What a load of tripe! 
Let me trace the history of events. On 25 January 1976, flushed with success at being admitted to the Ministry- perhaps he will be the next to go- the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs announced an amnesty. Everyone who was an over-stayed visitor would be granted resident status unless he failed to meet normal standards of health and good character or if he had a serious criminal record. Salemi applied for the amnesty. He was told that he was not eligible because he had not entered as a visitor. That was incorrect, and the Chief Justice of the High Court of Australia described it as being an untenable reason. 
After making three separate applications,  Mr Salemi  's application was heard by a Full Bench of the High Court of Australia on 1 1 May 1977. Three judges were of the opinion that  Mr Salemi  had been denied natural justice; the other three judges said that he had been unfairly treated but that the concept of natural justice did not apply in the administration of the Minister's decision under the Migration Act. Even in the light of that glaring criticism the Minister persisted and ordered  Mr Salemi  to leave the country.  His  case was taken to the Ombudsman. The Ombudsman cannot investigate the actions of Ministers. He did investigate the departmental action and said that the fact that the Department did not advise the Minister of the implications of the High Court judgment was 'unreasonable', that it was unfortunate' that the Department did not ask  Mr Salemi  for particulars, and that the Department was 'wrong'? So here we have three statements by the Ombudsman to the effect that the actions of the Minister's advisers were unreasonable, unfortunate and wrong. The High Court was critical, and the end result of all that was that the Minister proceeded and issued a deportation order. 
When addressing a cultural studies conference in Goulburn last week the Minister said: 
We have largely failed in the past to take adequate account of the non-economic factors which understandably mean so much to the quality of life of members of our ethnic communities, and which could, and should, add so much to the quality of life of Australians generally. 
I suggest that in this case the Minister has demonstrated that failure. It is past the time for there to be a proper system of appeals. We have had the window dressing of the Administrative Decisions (Judicial Proceedings) Act, which has never been proclaimed, which probably never will be proclaimed now that the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  has received his reward, and which might allow such an appeal. We have provision for appeals for migrants convicted of crimes. We have a system, which is never used, for migrants who are alleged to be communists.  Mr Salemi  might be a communist. He is not being dealt with as one; he is being dealt with as a victim of the Minister. It is still not too late for the Minister to do the correct thing- to act like a Minister who has some responsibility for the ethnic communities. Let him withdraw the deportation order. Let him grant resident status. Let justice be done. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-This Budget will be remembered all right but it will be remembered not for the reasons that the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  outlined. It will be remembered as the Budget that brought down this incompetent and disgraceful Government. The address just delivered by the  Deputy  Prime Minister will be remembered as something that contained a lot of rubbish, rhetoric galore, but nothing that you could eat. 
I would like to refer to the sorry plight of migrants in Australia. It is a sad reflection of the attitude of Liberal governments to migrants over 25 years. Unfortunately for migrants in the postwar boom, they have been served by a Labor administration for only three years. The only concerted effort to update and provide migrant services and to attack migrant needs in a meaningful way occurred during those three years. Already in the 21 dark months since this Government took office many of those innovations have been destroyed. The closure of 3ZZ for blatant political right-wing purposessomething that the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Peter Johnson)  would know all about -is a classic example of the conservatives' paternalistic approach to ethnic minorities. That approach is perpetrated in this Budget. In almost every area of spending beneficial to migrants, allocations not only have failed to keep abreast of inflation but also have fallen behind their often inadequate 1976-77 figure. 
This is a national tragedy because migrants form a huge percentage of the lower income work force in Australia. Indeed, that is the very reason they were brought here. They are the hardest hit group in the economic recession induced by conservative incompetence. The policy of cutting inflation at the expense of wages and employment, which is failing anyway, hits most the people on lower incomes, either through depreciating their take-home pay or eliminating it altogether. Low income earners are incapable of providing a financial backup to tide them through survival on the miserable dole this Government pays its unemployed victims. 
Last night I made a speech about uranium and during it I had incorporated in  Hansard  some figures relating to youth unemployment. I invite honourable members on both sides of the House to reflect on them because about 16.9 per cent of people between the ages of 15 and 19 years who were bom out of Australia, almost one in five persons, are on the dole or unemployed and not getting the dole. They have to fall back on social welfare if they can get it. But once again we find that there are cuts in the very areas which may give some benefit to these people. They are caught in a vicious circle created by a heartless government which is determined to make the working people of this country pay for the grave problems of the boss 's system. If company profits rise sensationally honourable members sitting on the Government side believe they have achieved economic wonders. They choose to ignore the hundreds of thousands of victims at the far end of the scale. 
For a start, migrant education services have been cut by six per cent- to $ 10.2m- on last year's Budget. Child migrant education programs have been reduced by $130,000. There are no funds at all for interpreter translator services. The overall reduction in real terms will adversely affect bilingual education course development which is so necesary if migrants are to retain a proportion of their cultural heritage. I need go no further than my own electorate to find primary and secondary schools suffering drastically from the ceilings placed on spending this year by the State Government as a direct flow-on from Federal cuts. 
Small classes are a necessity in the multicultural inner urban schools and these are the most threatened facility as a result of the spending cuts. The opportunities for young children to survive, by putting their backsides on two stools at once, in the desperate economic climate they face are being severely limited by this Government's education policy. At these schools migrants are amongst the worst victims. Fitzroy High School, for instance, which has a growing number of Lebanese students enrolled, has no Lebanese speaking staff member. This is an incredible deficiency and it is creating grave problems for these students. Teachers tell me that all inner urban schools suffer from a twoyear gap in the reading level. Students in second form, for example, are two years behind their comparative level. They see problems created by poor migrant education facilities as one of the factors contributing to this state of affairs. 
Outside my electorate, I believe, the problems facing migrant students are being exacerbated by the demographic trend of migrant families to move out of inner suburbia or not to settle there as they traditionally did. This is due to the impact of inflation on property values. They are moving to Lalor and Deer Park. In many cases schools in these areas are even more poorly catered for in migrant education needs than schools in inner suburbia where the State Government at least has realised the problem in recent years and has taken some steps to improve it. That Government has not even come to realise fully the impact of this demographic change in the new outer migrant areas. Even when this realisation comes about it will take many years to achieve positive results because of the continuing cutback in funds from the Federal Government. 
The lack of funds for the interpreter/ translator course is to the findings of the Commission of Inquiry into Poverty which recommended interpreter training at tertiary level and the establishment of a national council of interpreting and translating. This inquiry was established under the Labor Government when there was government concern about the plight, the needs, and the interests of migrants in this country. Had that concerned Government survived these recommendations would be operative today. Migrant translating and interpreter services would be operating under government sponsorship. Tertiary courses would be a part of our education system. But under this Government not one cent has been allocated for these courses. The Commission of Inquiry into Poverty need not have been held. The same inquiry urged State departments to establish centres where adolescent arrivals could participate in full time intensive courses preparatory to entering secondary education facilities, apprenticeship schemes or part time training courses. The cutback in Government spending will ensure that these recommendations will not be adopted. 
So much for the pious determination of this socalled Government to look at the needs of the under-privileged in the community. All the Government can come up with is a range of further inquiries into migrant services. We have an inquiry, for God 's sake, into youth unemployment. We have had schemes related to the problems of youth, for Christ's sake, which will take another 6 months to eventuate and by that time the people will have a darn in their tie and nothing to eat. They will never be employed if the trend continues. At the same time the sons and daughters of the elite will receive even more elitist educational opportunities thanks to the conservative attitude that the rich ought to become richer and the poor ought to become poorer. Compare the facilities at Geelong Grammar with those at Merrylands High School. The Press recently published a photograph of a migrant teacher at that high school attempting to cope with a class of 40. 
Funds for welfare migrant facilities and welfare rights services have been reduced by 12 per cent in real terms from a miserable $800,000 last year to an even more miserable $750,000 this year. What an example of this Government's lack of concern for the poor, the unemployedthe victims of its policies. If migrants were a business grouping and not just a body of industrial cannon fodder in the eyes of those on the Government benches they would be receiving special grants in aid, special industry assistance, allowances, special capital improvement grants, all to ensure their economic survival at the taxpayers' expense. But migrants are not a business grouping. For being what they are, the hapless victims of this system, they must pay an even greater price because those services which make life a little easier for them have been further reduced. 
Let us look at migrant housing. Funds to the States for this service last year were $500,000. This year they are $300,000, a 45 per cent reduction in real terms. Obviously the Government regards the depression of migrant conditions as more important than boosting the ailing construction industry. Once again Government action is contrary to the recommendations of the Commission of Inquiry into Poverty. Promoting inquiries is not now and never will be necessary because the information is there already. We urge the Government to grant extensive government assistance to migrants in housing and welfare areas. In respect of housing and hire purchase the Commission of Inquiry said that the Government should set up a scheme to provide interest-free loans as settlement loans to unassisted migrants for basic household purchases without the need for them to enter crippling hire purchase agreements. 
-This little tinpot solicitor from Eden-Monaro, who would not get a feed in the small debts court and will not be here after the next election, yaps on the back bench. 
-From time to time the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs has indicated that the migration program is administered to ensure that migrants do not add to the number of people unemployed or take jobs from qualified Australian residents. Can the Minister explain why the May 1977 Labour Force Survey has found unemployment amongst migrants arriving between January 1976 and May 1977 to be at a level of 15.4 per cent for males and 22.4 per cent for females? With reference to the administrative procedures purporting to prevent such a situation, can the Minister indicate how the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs ensures that a migrant recruited to help to fill a vacancy in, say, Perth will go to Perth rather than to Sydney or elsewhere; how the Department ensures that no Australian worker is available to fill the vacancy in question; and in what circumstances the Department would recommend retraining an unemployed Austraiian rather than go to the expensive and time consuming effort of recruiting a migrant overseas? Will the Government release the list of jobs classified as in short supply, which is supposed to guide the recruitment procedures of the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Defence. Does the Minister recall authorising two VIP round trips on 28 July to enable the Prime Minister's wife to enjoy a night at the opera? Was it correctly reported that the Minister was highly irritated by the fact that the Prime Minister should ask him to approve the flight, which cost over $2,000? 
I am disappointed that such a negative statement should be made at this time. The study took seven years and cost the taxpayers of this country $39,000. As has been indicated, it took longer than the Second World War to produce the report. I agree with the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  that it is inadequate. It seems to me that $500 a page is an extraordinary amount of money to pay for such a report. However, I think the statements in the document will be of some use in the important debate which ought to ensue over the whole concept of population policy. I think the Minister has rubbished the paper because some aspects of it are rather unpalatable to him. Whilst I agree that the report has certain deficiencies I think we should nave the grace to inject tables into the report if it is to be left somewhere to be examined. I think it ought not to be just left somewhere to be examined. To give some finishing touches to the report and to reasonably expect it to be a document worthy of its cost, we ought to add something to it. I ask that a table which I have shown to the Minister be included in  Hansard. 
I rise in this debate on the estimates for the Department of the Treasury to raise a number of issues concerned with -the question of communication. In particular I refer to the appropriation for printing, binding and distribution of papers, which appears on page 7 of Appropriation Bill (No. 1) under subdivision 2 item 03, for both this House and the Senate. The range of communications that has suffered as a result of this Government's Budget strategy goes to the very areas of my responsibility as spokeman for the Oppositionsuch areas as bilingual education, the education of migrant women, the Public Service and migrant services generally. There is one other point which I would like to put to the Government and which I think is of major concern. For some time I have been concerned as to the means whereby my researches into the various problems facing a member may be facilitated. Looking at the estimates and comparing them with the situation which arose last year, one realises that there is obviously something wrong with a system which makes economies in the very areas where priority should be given- that is, the right of members to have information available to them. If a member is to deal with the problems of his own electorate, and more particularly those problems which are near and dear to his heart, the facilities ought to be made available to him. 
Looking further into the estimates I see that the same thing has happened in relation to the printing of Acts of the Parliament. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  -Order! I wonder whether the honourable member would mind telling me what estimates he is talking about. 
-I am talking about the Treasury estimates. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- On the cost of publications? 
-The costs of publications and the general costs of communication. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Is the honourable member sure that he is not talking about the estimates for the Parliament? 
No; I am referring to the general question of costs. I raised this matter with one of the senior officers of the House and he directed me along the lines on which I am speaking. I am talking in terms of general costs. I want to make it clear that, in what I am about to say, I make no reflection on the officers of the Table Office. In fact this afternoon I received from them some very sound advice for which I am very grateful. They are ever helpful. I am sure that all honourable members will agree with that. If an honourable member wants a paper it is produced as quickly as possible. But we are not always near the Table Office. When we are in our electorates we are supported by researchers who are not in the Parliament, and we need the information. 
Let me quote some figures. I am referring again to the question of costs. Last year $500,000 was allocated for the printing, binding and distribution of Senate papers. I am referring to specific areas of costs which may not appear here, but once again this goes to the point that I am making. Last year only about $276,000 was expended. For this House last year $1,001,000 was allocated, but only $654,000 was expended. This year the estimate is $1,006,200. For the printing of Acts and regulations- a matter to which this House will shortly be turning its attentionlast year $1,088,000 was allocated. I am not dealing specifically with that allocation here, but I want to get to a point that ought to concern the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown)  who shakes his head and looks rather concerned that I might be talking about the wrong appropriation. The fact is that this goes to the question of human civil liberties, which ought to be very much his concern. 
When we look at page 14 of the Appropriation Bill we find that the amounts for the  Gazette  and other publications, which show what this Government has done, were all spent last year and that greater amounts are to be spent this year. I do not think it is necessary to remind honourable members of the flow of paper which crosses their desks, but one of the prime concerns is that we should have available the information as to what the Parliament has done and what the Parliament is doing. That situation is not coming about. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  I am sorry to interrupt the honourable gentlemen, but page 7 relates to the estimates for the Parliament and page 14 relates to the estimates for the Department of Administrative Services. They are the precise items that the honourable member is debating. As he knows, we are not dealing with those estimates now. He is running a little late. If he could tie in his remarks with the estimates with which we are dealing, which are the estimates for the Department of the Treasury and the Department of Finance and the Advance to the Treasurer, he would make life a little easier for me in ruling him in order. 
I certainly crave your indulgence,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  and I am sure that you have been more than tolerant. The very issue is this: One Bill, the Administrative Decisions (Judicial Review) Bill, passed through both Houses during the previous session, in about June this year. This Act has not yet been proclaimed. This might well be due to restrictions and lower staff levels which flow from the allocations by the Treasurer. But I point to that as an example of what occurs when there are restrictions within these areas. Restrictions of that nature affect issues such as civil liberties and deportation. One case in particular which has been debated in this House time and time again is the famous Salemi case. If that Act, which passed through both Houses of Parliament in June this year, had been proclaimed an appeal would have been made under the provisions of that Act. Had that Act been proclaimed and had the restrictions not occurred, under normal circumstances we as individuals- I make no secret of the fact that I was involved- who have taken steps to protect the interests of a citizen, whether he is an Italian citizen - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! With regret I shall have to warn the honourable member that if he does not return to the estimates under discussion I shall have to ask him to resume his seat. 
I have made my point,  Mr Deputy Chairman.  Thank you for your indulgence. The real issue of restrictions, as the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  has pointed out- I adopt his submission on this occasion - 
-I might well be Little  Sir Echo,  but the honourable member would not even be capable of carrying out that exercise. He has had too many games of rugby without any headgear. The point I wish to make is that we believe that the allocation has been underestimated. It goes to the point of the general policy of the Government, which is to restrict public expenditure to the detriment of the individuals concerned. 
-Melbourne is the third largest Greek speaking city in the world. I mention that fact not to bore the House with one of the most quoted figures in Australia, but simply to bring it to the Government's attention. No matter how many times the figure has been quoted, it has not been quoted often enough to register with the Government. In the third largest Greek speaking city in the world there is a migrant service welfare section eroding away in the Department of Social Security. There are five workers in the head office at the Commonwealth Centre, and guess which major language none of them speaks? Greek. Correct the first time. I take back what I said earlier. I think the figures have registered with the Government, but I think the Government simply does not care about migrants. 
I raise today this matter of public importance to condemn the Government for its failure to provide migrant services and its cutbacks of the services already existing. The two specific matters to which I wish to refer are the migrant services welfare section and the migrant English classes conducted at the Church of All Nations in Carlton, in my electorate. The cases simply exemplify the Government's lack of concern. Migrants are aware that actions speak louder than words, and the only period of real action in migrant services was m the 1972-75 era of a compassionate government. The Australian Labor Party cares about migrants. The post-war immigration boom was begun under a Labor government but unfortunately for the thousands and thousands of migrants, services fell very quickly under a government that did nothing for them for 23 years. Now, as in so many areas, the massive leaps made in the three years of Labor Government are being slashed to ineffective tokens. 
Migrants are in an unfortunate position when it comes to dealing with this Government. In the main, they are working people brought here for just that purpose. The industrial cannon-fodder aspect of conservative governments over the years has used them to feed the assembly lines in the sweat shops of those big business friends whose lackeys members opposite are. If big business faced problems comparative to those faced by migrants this Government would pour millions of dollars into alleviating those problems. The migrants are workers and are Labor voters at that. Labor voters and workers are concentrated generally in safe Labor seats. The Government thinks that because they are in that situation they can be ignored. The day of reckoning is about to arrive. 
The migrant services section is a classic example. Migrant welfare courses were begun under the Labor Government and proved extremely successful. They provided officers who were able to handle migrant problems, and it gave those officers a feeling of job satisfaction. Now, not even two years later staff morale is at an all time low. 
In retrospect, the Labor Administration may have made one mistake. In 1974 we transferred the section from the Department of Labor and Immigration to the Department of Social Security. That was all right when there were two Ministers who were genuinely sympathetic to the problem. We felt that the transfer would eliminate several bureaucratic problems. In retrospect, because of the circumstances of the change of government, it has created several problems. Now the section is the victim of a tug of war between two Ministers, neither of whom cares one iota about the issues. They are involved in a power struggle within their party. We know who is winning. For some reason the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  carries far more weight in her party than does the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar),  whose performance is causing some concern even in his own ranks. To cause concern in his ranks takes massive degrees of incompetence. We know who else is losing in this tug of war- the working class migrants whose welfare has been long forgotten. 
The situation is frustrating staff to the point of desperation. The section has been divided into three sub-sections- intake, outreach and settlement. The intake sub-section operates with five workers at the Commonwealth Centre in Victoria. The outreach sub-section has 1 1 workers spread over offices in Coburg, Port Melbourne, Prahran, South Melbourne, Springvale and Oakleigh. The settlement sub-section has seven workers within migrant hostels, concentrating almost exclusively on Timorese and IndoChinese refugees. Despite what the Minister for Social Security says, staff numbers have not been maintained to meet needs under this Government. Whenever the Minister for Social Security and the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic affairs are challenged they quote figures for the whole branch rather than for the migrant welfare section. Staff are concerned that the sub-sections operate independently; that there is no overlay, interchange of skills or interchange of staff languages. 
There is also concern among trained migrant welfare staff about new staff replacements. Trained people are being transferred to noncasework jobs, while many staff members who are meeting migrants have no training. When vacancies exist the Department is using the section to place workers displaced through cutbacks in areas such as the Australian Assistance Plan. This is no reflection upon the new replacements who are doing the best they can in the circumstances. It is a reflection on the Government in reiterating its disregard for migrants by placing their welfare in the hands of unqualified staff. For instance, the migrant services outreach program has been taken from a competent migrant welfare officer and placed in the hands of a woman with no casework or community work experience with migrants. She has not even had an apprenticeship but she has been placed in a supervisory, co-ordinating role. This womanthe fault does not lie with her- has no linguistic skills, no experience of working directly or indirectly with migrants and no direct knowledge of the politics and problems associated with ethnic community work.  Her  supervisory experience is limited. This situation is unfair both to the woman herself and to the other staff. It can do nothing to convince the staff that the Government cares about the work they are doing. 
Some time ago the Department moved the section from the Commonwealth Centre to ISO Lonsdale Street, against strong staff opposition. Not only was it moved to 1 50 Lonsdale Street; it was moved to the eighteenth floor of 150 Lonsdale Street. As the staff predicted, clients dropped off. When the Department realised that the client decrease was drastic it transferred the section back to the Commonwealth Centre. What a waste of time, resources and efficiency! Unfortunately, the section now is housed in very poor conditions. The 'anything will do for the migrants' attitude of the Government again predominates. There are seven settlement officers working with the Timorese and Indo-Chinese in the hostels and only 16 intake and outreach workers for the whole of Melbourne- for the whole of the State, in fact. The position of the senior social worker has been made redundant. Will that position be replaced? Sub-section supervisors have no responsibility or authority. Staff decisions are made with little or no consultation with the sub-section supervisors. There are totally disproportionate numbers in supervising, co-ordinating and planning compared with those providing a direct service to migrants. 
The staff are concerned, and I am concerned, at the long list of problems. As there is a greater influx of clients to migrant welfare there is a decrease in welfare personnel and services are impaired. The departmental machinery gives migrants a feeling that there is a reduction in services. There is no consultation in the decisionmaking processes of planning and delivery of services. Migrants need an easily identifiable and accessible focal point. Providing the service in autonomous sub-sections or from different points of view creates confusion and difficulty. This is reflected in the ideological conflicts over the direction the branch ought to be taking. It has not been aided by the turnover of five assistant directors in 18 months. It is reflected in the section's channelisation into the benefits and pensions issue of welfare, rather than the integration and settlement areas which are the section's responsibility. Middle management has tended to disregard complaints, considering them as personality clashes rather than problems arising from genuine concern about the disintegration of the services themselves. This is apart from concern about the amounts of money which have been set aside for social welfare. I shall deal with that later, when speaking on the departmental estimates. 
I come to my second point. On Monday morning my office received a call from  Mrs Nina  Janich who lives within my electorate at Carlton.  Mrs Janich  was most disturbed. She had been to the Church of All Nations in Carlton for her regular English language lesson and had been told that all classes would cease in two weeks; that Government funding had been withdrawn.  Mrs Janich  speaks good English. She went to the classes to learn grammar and writing. She pointed out that the classes are invaluable to many migrants who cannot speak English at all. The classes were started in the late 1960s by the Church under funding from philanthropic sources such as the Myer Foundation and the Buckland Trust. However, these bodies concentrate on funding programs at the initial stages and the Church approached the Labor Federal Government for support in 1973. We provided funds for the program which now includes extensive teaching aids and equipment, a full time teacher seconded from the Victorian Department of Education and three part time teachers. In a concentrated migrant area, on the doorstep of a large Housing Commission high rise development, the service has been more than invaluable. Last Friday the Church was told by the Victorian Department that the funds would cease in two weeks. What a disaster it will be for migrants in inner Melbourne if this established service is allowed to die. 
This indicates the Government's attitude to migrants. Government finance reports in recent years have outlined time and again necessary government action in migrant services. Translation, interpreter and language training facilities have been seen as essentials. This year funds for all three have been dropped. Not only has the Government chosen to ignore the recommendations before it; it also has cold-bloodedly and calculatingly dismantled those services which exist. It cannot use the recently established Galbally inquiry as an excuse. That inquiry will discover nothing the Government does not already know or have before it. It is simply a front to dismantle the Good Neighbour Council. The Government should have the guts to come out and say so. I do not mind what the Government's policy is, provided it comes out and says what it is and lets the people judge it on its merits. The Galbally inquiry is a farce. One can reflect on the recent newspaper article by Isabel Lukas which outlined the deficiencies and the gimmickry of this inquiry. Professor Encel was to carry out a similar inquiry early in 1976 at a very low cost to the community, but the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs sacked him. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)There is no substance in the point of order. 
-That was a frivolous point of order. It is about time you got out of your little box. You are not interested in migrants. I am referring to the honourable member for St George. 
I rise to speak to the estimates for the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. Due to the fact that time is limited, I should like to refer to three particular areas which come within the responsibility of the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  to illustrate the intolerable neglect, once again, of this Government which is endeavouring to dupe migrant communities in this country into believing that the Government is acting m their interests. Having failed, the Government is carrying out an outrageous campaign of deceit and deception to which I will refer a little later. Migrants are the most savagely affected group, apart from Aborigines, in Australia and are particularly affected by this unemployment crisis. It is a telling reflection of this Government's attitude to them that this Budget- in particular, the estimates for this Department- has done nothing about alleviating their plight. I make this point because it was not mentioned in the Estimates. It is exaggerated by the Government's dated policy of considering immigration in a compartmentalised capsule divorced from all those policy areas affecting it. I say this because this morning I raised a question directly relevant to this matter. When speaking in the debate on a matter of public importance I did not elect that the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs should answer the debate. I simply referred to migrant services. All the Minister could add was that it was not part of his portfolio so he could not be expected to answer questions and be questioned about an issue that is of vital concern to migrants in this country. 
In a tug-of-war with the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs the Department of Social Security won out. The Department has got itself into a situation in which the migrant welfare section of the Department is a rank failure. It ought to be investigated. I put it to the Minister that he ought to take responsibility of answering to this House about the intention of his Department. Why is the Department in that state of affairs? Why is the Department so disjointed in the areas of education, legal aid and so on? A disgraceful situation has arisen. If the ethnic affairs section of the Department means anything, it ought to be a watch dog. It ought to be adopting the recommendations contained in the Bailey report, the report of the health and welfare task force and other reports which talk about cohesive services that need to be coordinated in the interests of migrants in general. 
The third area to which I wish to refer relates to migrant services. I refer again to the 12 per cent cut, from $800,000 to $750,000, for migrant services. This matter is involved in the buckpassing which revolves around the two departments. When we start to question one department about a matter we are blithely told that it is the responsibility of the other department. The agencies which are taking the brunt of the problem are being told this every day of the week. 
I want to add to what the Minister said this morning. He referred to a migrant English teaching service at the Church of All Nations. He informed the House that the number in the classes at that school was nine. For the information of the Minister I point out that on an average there are 146 in the class, sometimes more and sometimes less. There is one full time teacher and three part time teachers. If the information which the Minister has been given is wrong then I think he ought to take to task the person who gave it to him. It is a crying shame that people who are struggling to do a job under these circumstances are placed in that situation. 
In relation to the specific item in the appropriation which relates to migrant publicity, where is the $lm, as I understand it, for the propaganda campaign? I know that an additional $39,178 has been provided. But where will the $lm come from? It certainly does not appear in the appropriation. We require some explanation of that matter. We have gone through the exercise about the provision for the Melbourne Migrant Resource Centre. We are making great play of the Sydney Migrant Resource Centre, for God 's sake, but it has never got off the ground. It is pie in the sky when you die. We have been given some limp, weak excuse about looking for a building during that period. This is leading migrants up the garden path once again. This centre has not been achieved at all. This is a suggestion which has never reached fruition. 
Once again I want to talk about the office of the Commissioner for Community Relations. The activities of the Government from the time it took office have been directed towards getting rid of Grassby or, alternatively, of getting the Office into an area where he would be suppressed so that he could not carry out his role of providing protection against racial discrimination. The Office has been relegated to the windy halls of the Attorney-General's Department. The Act should be administered in an Ombudsman-type way. It should have somebody at its head who will not be talked down by tin pot lawyers like we have on the Government backbench. One would not want them to defend one in the small debt's court. If the Office gets into that area there will be a bonanza for lawyers. Individuals will be discriminated against. They will be put on the merry-go-round and discriminated against until the case is resolved. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)-The  honourable member has been all over the countryside for the last seven minutes. I cannot establish how any remark he has made is applicable to the Estimates. I ask him to relate his remarks to the Estimates or I shall have to ask him to resume his seat. 
-The last three matters I put to the Committee, with due respect, relate to division 342 which refers directly to the Office of the Commissioner for Community Relations. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- I see. I apologise. 
-Yes. You should not be so anxious to be effective. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Will the honourable member get on with his speech. 
-Yes. Translation services is another matter to which I refer. There is a need not just to maintain the status quo but to increase the translation services because they are required by the community. There is one official Spanish translator in the Department. When any technical interpretation or translation is needed the Department relies on individuals who are not competent. I refer to the area of health. I hope that the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  will take up this aspect. Let us look at the number of translators who are available in the medical and mental hygiene departments for the purposes of carrying out what is absolutely essential according to the best of medical knowledge and advice. The ladies who sweep the floor in some of the general hospitals are being asked to translate. It is an absolute disgrace. Representatives of CO.AS.IT. in Melbourne have put it to me that they are concerned about the situation where migrants are involved. 
For one moment I will refer to the ethnic affairs section of the Department. I am sure that is contained in the Estimates,  Mr Deputy Chairman.  That section was referred to by the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  this morning. It is some sort of a joke. Up to 18 months ago it had a letterhead and three people. It then developed to dizzy heights with a number of people who did not have their task laid out until after they had applied for the jobs. Further to that, I refer to the waste of money that is being expended by the Government on the Galbally inquiry. No fewer than 30 references and reports on migrant needs are available to the Minister. People have been knocking on doors to carry out a further review. The Galbally inquiry is a farce. I would like the Minister to give some explanation as to how the expenditure is justified. 
The DEPUTY  CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
Is the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs aware that the Honourable Franco Foschi, on behalf of the Italian Government, requested the Australian Charge d 'Affaires in Rome, or another senior officer, to call on him in order to discuss the deportation of Ignazio Salemi? Was a request made that in the interest of Italian-Australian friendship the deportation order be withdrawn and the case reexamined in the light of the fact that the action taken is regarded as offensive to the Italian community in Australia and having regard to the value of  Mr Salemi  's work in the Italian community on behalf of the Federation of Italian Labourers, Emigrants and Families? 
-We have just listened to the swan song of the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman). His  title 'Mike the mouth' is so apt. I will leave it to honourable members to draw their own conclusions from that description. I move to the estimates. 
The honourable member cannot read, so I am one up on him, am I not? I would like to concentrate for a moment on the estimates for the Department of Productivity. The performance of this Government in an industrial sense is lamentable. Its closure of the shipbuilding industry has left 600 tradesmen unemployed in Newcastle. There has been less money for the Prices Justification Tribunal. We hear all sorts of screams and belly-aching from the neo-fascists opposite about union bashing, but when we start talking about the involvement of the people who control them and investigating those people it is a horse of a different colour. In the present Victorian power dispute the Federal Government has stood over the Victorian Government and precluded any proper solution. The Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee)  knows as well as I do that the only way - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  The honourable member for Melbourne is very much on the ball because the question before the Chair is the estimates for the Department of Productivity, and that is what he is speaking to. 
The objection has been taken because honourable members opposite do not want to hear what I am saying. The very basis of any settlement of the Victorian dispute is conciliation, which is the prime concern of anybody who knows something about industrial relations. I concede that the Minister for Productivity does know about industrial relations. I also hope that he would concede also that the State Electricity Commission dispute has gone on periodically since 1959 under the same circumstances, reaching the same heights as at the moment. The only way it was ever resolved in the past was by conciliation. I challenge the Minister, who knows something about the matter, to deny that that is the fact. What I am saying is that honourable members opposite go to great lengths to bash unions or to attempt to bludgeon them into submission, but when it comes to the Prices Justification Tribunal putting the corporations under the hammer and putting them to the test the money is cut. They are not prepared to apply the same sort of judgment or the same sort of rule to those who run their side of the Parliament, those who run the Government. 
As the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  has said, the Department of Productivity is a non-entity. It was established to appease the Minister. It is not necessary. Its functions should come under the broader concept of other departments. It has been a waste of resources. If there were a role that it should have been carrying out, the Minister would know something about the many reports of its failure in the subject of techniques and technology required for the future. I recall very vividly a seminar I attended in Canberra during the 1960s. The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch),  who was then Minister for Labour and National Service, also attended. We went through one week of protracted considerations of the very problems that pointed up the fact that we did not have enough tradesmen. We did not have the capacity in the public sector. The private sector did not take the responsibility of providing people with training in the techniques in industry that would be required into the 1 970s and the 1 980s. The then government over one decade did absolutely nothing about it. The loss of techniques to industry at this time is on the Government's shoulders. The deterioration in the training capacity of individuals for industry and commerce resulted, in effect, from the failure of the then government, the very same people who are now sitting on the government benches in this chamber. They had the answer to the question in their hands but they did nothing at all about it. Therefore, the 
Government is responsible for the lack of techniques and technology that we are experiencing at the moment. Then there is the contradiction of the shutting down of the shipbuilding yards. There are about 600 tradesmen out of work with no prospects for the future. 
If the honourable member has enough guts he should go up there and tell them that. The very fact that they do not have work shows the incompetence of the Government and its failure to add up what is required. In other areas money is being spent to appease the individuals who are trying to buy their seats. I am afraid that the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  and all the oncers from Tasmania will not be here after the next election - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Martin)Order!  The honourable member for Denison will resume his seat. It is not a point of order to try to destroy the speaking time of another honourable member. It must be a valid point of order. What is your valid point of order? 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  The honourable member for Melbourne is speaking to the estimates. He has mentioned the Department of Industry and Commerce and the Department of Productivity. Whilst he stays within those lines he is in order. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- That is not a point of order. It is a point for debate. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  -The honourable member for Denison will resume his seat. It is a point for debate. It is not a point of order. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  The honourable member has not named you, the honourable member for Denison, as attempting to buy your seat. He was speaking in general terms. I do not uphold the point of order. After the honourable member for Melbourne has spoken it is competent for the honourable member for Denison to make a personal explanation as to whether or not he is buying his seat. 
The Labor Party sees two areas where the departments would be separated. The Labor Party sees tourism and consumer affairs as separate entities, separate industries, that require specific and direct consideration. There is 4.5 per cent of the work force employed in the area of tourism and it justifies consideration. That would be a positive contribution. Instead the Government's contribution was to find a warm seat for a person who represented employers very favourably and well. He was rewarded by being given the seat of Balaclava and then a seat on the front bench that did not exist in the first place. It will be seen from an examination of the job creation position that only 470,000 additional jobs were created in the period from 1971 to 1976. As I have indicated to the honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Shipton)-  I do not know whether he has the intelligence to realise this- if one takes that to its logical conclusion it can be seen that there will be a diminution of 900,000 jobs by 1981. What is the Government going to do about it? 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member's time has expired. Does the honourable member for Denison wish to make a personal explanation? 
He is out of place. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! If the honourable member for Denison takes his proper place in the chamber I will then listen to his personal explanation. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  It would appear that the honourable member for Denison feels that the honourable member for Melbourne said that he bought his seat in this chamber. If the honourable member for Melbourne did, in fact, say that - 
It might be true but I did not say it. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  If the honourable member for Melbourne maintains that he did not say it I am in a situation where I cannot honestly ask the honourable member to withdraw it. I call the Minister for Productivity. 
I oppose the legislation. I join with my colleagues in expressing disappointment and revulsion at the indecent haste in which this legislation has been introduced into this House. As the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  indicated- and this is realised by many people- the Government's action has been exposed as a cheap political gimmick which puts at risk the future of thousands of men, women and children not only in the Latrobe Valley but also throughout Victoria because of the spin-off effects that the dispute is having in other industries. 
No industrial dispute can be won by hitting someone over the head with the back of an axe. All one receives in return is a similar blow.  Mr Polites,  the top employers' advocate in this country, who is sitting in the gallery of the House at the moment, indicated during a speech he made today at the National Press Club that this issue will not be solved by tampering with the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. He well knows, and anybody with any industrial experience whatsoever well knows, that any attempt to tear down the trade union structure, to turn it into a tame cat organisation, and to reduce its potence, will succeed only in watering it down to the point where we have either control outside the wishes of the properly elected leadership or leadership that is not acting in the best interests of the unionists. Disputes will not be resolved if unions are treated in this way. History proves that not one dispute has been resolved in this way. This tyrannical, oppressive and unjust legislationthose are its implications for the trade union movement- does not go one iota along the line towards resolving the dispute in Victoria or, for that matter, any other industrial dispute that may arise now, in the short term or in the long run. Any attempt to destroy the arbitration systemand this legislation goes a long way towards making that the fundamental questionhas resulted in the government concerned incurring the wrath of the electors. The Bruce Page government in this country and the Heath government in the United Kingdom tried to do this but they felt the wrath of the electors and were defeated. Ultimately this legislation, will backfire on the Government because in the final analysis there is always a valid reason behind a decision to strike. People may strike because they believe they have suffered an injustice. To batter them into submission does not deter them one iota from the belief that their case is right. 
The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  claims that the Government has a mandate to introduce legislation which will create a haven for scabs and eat away at the foundations of the trade union movement. The Minister seeks to protect individuals who have been set up or who set out to destroy trade union organisations. The legislation is designed to reduce industrial organisations to tame cat affairs. The conciliation and arbitration area as we know it is complex and the electors would not know how industrial relations ought to be run in this country unless the industrial system and all related factors were explained to them in detail. Therefore I believe that the Government has no mandate and it is idiotic for the Minister to claim that it has. This legislation has been introduced as a cheap political gimmick that has been planned for months and months to develop a climate in which an election can be held. The legislation has been introduced to entice people's minds from the economic mismanagement of this country and to shroud economic matters in mystery. 
I refer next to some questions that were raised in the Minister's second reading speech. It is claimed that there has been proper consultation. But the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the peak councils rejected the policy and the philosophy inherent in the Government's proposition. The employee representatives were told that the workers should have no fears about the industrial Relations Bureau. Having spent almost a lifetime in the industrial movement, I know that propositions that are claimed to be new and revolutionary are in fact not in that category. They have been around since Adam was a child. Protection in relation to union ballots has existed ever since the conciliation and arbitration legislation was just enacted. There may be some revolutionary and sophisticated alterations but, once again, they are only gimmicks used by the Minister. The real thrust of this legislation is to be found in the terminology that the Minister used in such a glib way when reading his second reading speech. He said: 
Such situations demand that action be taken. It is paramount that unions recognise their obligations and the legitimate interest of the Australian community. 
In effect he said that the Government has an absolute right to ensure that the unions recognise their obligations. All that means is that the Government will move to a situation in which it will attempt to bring troops into the Latrobe Valley. It will attempt to encourage scabs to carry out the bidding of those who are associated with the policies of the Government. It seems to me that, unless something positive is done to protect us from such action in the current dispute, which is a glaring example of what I am saying, the Government will be encouraging and inciting the shedding of blood on the streets in the Latrobe Valley. 
To add weight to what I am saying, let me point out that 2,500 members against 20 members voted to continue the dispute. These 2,500 people know why they are in this dispute situation. They know that there is a variation of about $20 a week between their salary and like classifications in the State Electricity Commission. The merits of their case have never been heard. The tight guidelines laid down within the framework of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission have restricted the aspects of their claims that can be raised. The review now being carried out by Commissioner Mansini, who has been especially assigned the task, relates to other aspects that could have been considered in the first instance. But what happened? The Federal Government stood over Hamer. Hamer, in turn, stood over the State Electricity Commission and there were no objective negotiations to have examined the anomalies that existed within the classification framework of the SEC. Therefore when we talk about conciliation and arbitration, what this legislation means is a compulsory arbitration system. There is no room for conciliation. The Government should throw off the shroud of respectability it seeks to give it. The Government wants to have every case arbitrated upon within the strict narrow guidelines that control the overall wage structure. The room in which to move, which could have been used in this issue affecting the SEC, was never used. Therefore, the hearing that was held the other day was a farce. It has been proved to be a farce because Commissioner Mansini has now been appointed to examine those anomalies. This will go a long way towards resolving the dispute but the Government does not want to resolve this dispute. It wants to pour petrol on the flames to ensure that there is a dispute so that on 3 December or 10 December it can hold an election on a law and order issue which is a complete and utter phoney. 
The Government talks about responsibility. I repeat that the legislation provides a haven for scabs. I refer to a comment by Clarence Darrow in his autobiography. He was one of the greatest lawyers of all time who really fought for the underdog. He said: 
The strike-breaker occupies in the industrial world a position precisely analogous to that of the renegade and traitor. He represents a type of man universally condemned in any other sphere of human activity. He sells himself for less than the 30 pieces of silver, but too often lacks the grace which caused Iscariot to go and hang himself. He commits the unpardonable sin of betraying his fellows. He purloins that to which he has no claim and is the one stumbling block in the path of the wage earner. The attempt to make him respectable reflects discredit upon those engaged in '.t. 
It reflects on the Government because the Government is encouraging the strike breaker to move into the Latrobe Valley. The natural reaction of people who have been in dispute, as the honourable member for Hotham said, is to be enraged at the treatment they receive. When we talk about responsibility, lo and behold the speakers on the other side of the House say that people who undertake responsible positions such as the people with a finger on the switch of the electricity supply, have a responsibility to the community. I put it to the Minister that the community has a responsibility to them. If their position is exaggerated or placed in jeopardy and they are not permitted in the normal course of events to take whatever action is available to them, when they have voted overwhelmingly to take that action, then it is up the Government to ensure that that which is enshrined in the legislation will ensure that they receive that to which they are justly entitled. That is not to be. People in these classifications receive $20 or $30 a week less than that enjoyed by people in like classifications in private enterprise. How does the Government believe those people are going to react? The Government ought to ensure that the conciliatory wing of the Act works in such a way that they will not go through eight months of frustration, as they nave done in this case, trying to discuss their claims but with the co-ordinating committee of the State Parliament rejecting their advances and refusing to discuss their claims in a proper way and purely and simply duck-shoving it, playing a straight bet and waiting for the axe to fall. 
I spent many years in the industrial court and I know something about it. Lawyers like the  Speaker  of this House made a small fortune as advocates for the employers. Day after day they took unions into the industrial court, and under sections 109 and 1 1 1 had them fined and finally having a trade union official gaoled. The sins of the trade union officials were that they stood up for the union members they represented and carried out the duties of the democratically elected positions they occupied. So far as trade unions are concerned, once the Government destroys that conciliatory section of the Act and puts in the hands of the employers the right to neglect and reject any area of conciliation, the end result will be confrontation. The honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  outlined the various aspects of the Bill. It does not have one redeeming feature.  Mr George  Polites, top national employers' advocate, and the representatives of the Chamber of Manufactures with whom I have spoken individually have indicated that so far as they are concerned they are quite capable of handling their own position. 
The Prices Justification Tribunal is a toothless tiger. If the Government is going to control that which affects wage claims by workers, if it is fair dinkum at all, it would not be reducing the amount of money that is involved in the activities of the Prices Justification Tribunal. Instead it would be increasing it. It would be ensuring that the cost structure which forces wage claims by workers throughout the length and breadth of this country was kept to a minimum. The representatives and lackeys of the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd and all the vested interests in this country sit on the other side of the House. This whole reaction and response is to the wailings of individuals of that type. It is all very well to talk about the freedom of the individual if your name is Baillieu, for instance and you have never had to worry about the next pay packet, the next meal or the next pair of shoes for the kids. But if you are a migrant worker in Fitzroy slaving all day over a machine in some sweat shop in Fitzroy in oppressive conditions for the privilege of taking home a miserably inadequate wage, freedom of the individual means absolutely nothing or very little. 
Despite what the Government and business apologists say, there is little scope for the individual to rise above the economic mire that exists in this country. If we could all set up businesses and use those favourite euphemisms initiative' and 'enterprise' we would all be bosses and there would be no workers and the system would then be exposed. What a load of clap trap. Workers' wages have been eroded by the phoney proposition that was put to the electorate prior to the election that this Government would support wage indexation. It was not in Government for two minutes before it doublecrossed the workers. One of the issues that caused the Latrobe Valley dispute is their wage structure. They had an over-award payment for some 20 months. It remained stagnant for that period of time when costs rose by something like 20 per cent. If the Government is going to take the responsibility of controlling workers' wages, the only commodity the worker can sell, by way of oppressive legislation such as this, it will not win in the final analysis. I sincerely hope and trust that the trade union movement shows a bit of guts and stands up and fights to the finish. 
This legislation will never be effective. The Government is putting into legalism what it tries to do by standing over trade unions for the purpose of creating a political gimmick that is so blatant it is a joke and will never convince the electorate that the Government is fair dinkum. That is the rock on which it will perish. I put it to the Government that if it had an ounce of decency at all it would have taken steps to put its house in order before coming along with this load of tripe, this gimmick. It should have shown its bona fides to the trade union movement and the peak councils. 
It is going to destroy the consultation that has taken place, because no doubt those organisations will withdraw from further consultations. They have said that they do not believe in what is contained in this legislation. If they do withdraw from further consultations, it is on the Government's head. What the Government has done is to confront the unions deliberately. It has confronted all sections of the organised industrial movement. It has done nothing to try to control prices. It has run away from that problem. It is an apology for a government. Now it adds this legislation to its misdemeanours. The legislation is a fraud. The position the Government has taken is phoney. It will not convince the electors one iota. Whether the Government goes to the electors on 3 December, 10 December or at any time in the future it will be defeated. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Is the Minister for Health aware of the growing incidence of glue sniffing among young people m the country, m particular among Aborigines in the inner suburban areas of the major cities? Will he acknowledge that this habit leads to tragic permanent brain damage and violent criminal acts being carried out by people while under the effects of the fumes given off by this substance? Will he take steps to investigate the possibility of eliminating the ingredient that is the cause of the problem or any other steps that will deter young people from wrecking their lives by indulging in the habit? Will he request the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation to investigate the possibilities of introducing a further ingredient that would make that act an impossibility? 
-My contribution to the debate on the estimates for the Attorney-General's Department relates to two factors. One relates to the deception of the Government in respect of Bills and issues such as human rights. The second relates to the quality of the judiciary which presides over courts, particularly in the Australian Capital Territory, and the necessity for justice to be done not only in the passing of sentence on persons who are found guilty but in respect of persons who are charged and kept in custody for months waiting for those charges to be heard. 
We on this side of the chamber have become accustomed to a long series of Bills from the Government which turn out to be simply elaborate window-dressing and which do not achieve anything. One of the first signs of the deception to which I referred was the insertion of a section in the Human Rights Commission Act which provided that the law would come into force on a date to be proclaimed. I want the Committee to remember those words. Those dates of proclamation always seem to be a long way off. The Acts are held in reserve, as it were, for a suitable public relations exercise. The Government can then take the credit for initiating far-reaching and proper legislation, without actually doing anything about it. If, and only if, another embarassment arises does the Government take the final step of proclaiming the law. When the finished product is far from the stated intention the deception is even worse. 
I refer to one Bill that passed both Houses in June- the Administrative Decisions (Judicial Review) Bill. It passed both the House of Representatives and the Senate during June of this year. It has not yet been proclaimed. That position is much better than the position in regard to the Human Rights Commission Bill. The Commission has not yet hit the light of day. That is only the first step of course. What can happen after that is that the destiny of the Commission, which is set up by a very fine Bill, is enshrined in the Administrative Decisions (Judicial Review) Bill. It was a credit to the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  that the Bill allowed some area of appeal, particularly on issues in which I have been involved during the last 12 months in regard to the antiquated migration Act. At last some relief, some joy, has been given to a person who had been treated badly, and who now has recourse to the courts of this country to argue the merits of his case. He is no longer at the mercy of an individual- the Minister- who has great power over a deportee in such circumstances. 
I point out that this Bill is a famous piece of window-dressing and is an example of grandstanding. On the fundamental position in regard to an area of appeal in relation to human rights the Government grandstands, gets the legislation through, makes a great song and dance about it, passes one Bill through both Houses, then proceeds not to proclaim it. It has not been proclaimed to this day. What has happened to the Human Rights Commission Bill? The whole thing was a farce. As one proceeds to read the clauses of it one finds that they give the next way out. Instead of the Government putting its position on the line by introducing legislation that had been promised and that had been drafted, it is going to the people without that legislation being proclaimed. 
I turn to the second point that I want to raise, and that is the quality of the judiciary. I want to deal with both ends of the spectrum. The first one deals with people who are charged and left rotting in gaols for lengthy periods because we do not have sufficient judges to hear their cases. Recently the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  announced the appointment of  Mr Justice  Fox as an ambassador at large. There is a lack of judges in the Australian Capital Territory. This prompted  Senator Ryan  to ask this question of the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack): 
I ask the Attorney-General whether he is aware of the hardship and injustice arising from long delays currently experienced by liugants in the Australian Capital Territory Su- g rente Court. Does he know, for example, that as of 17 ictober 1977, 75 civil cases were ready for hearing but had not been given a hearing date in that Court? Does he know that persons have spent up to four months in custody before being brought to trial? what steps has he taken, or will he take, to amend the Australian Capital Territory Supreme Court Act . . . 

 Senator Durack replied: 
I do not dispute the statistics quoted by the honourable senator . . . there is certainly delay. 
He went on to say that the problem had been brought about by a combination of factors, one in particular being that the Chief Judge of the Supreme Court,  Mr Justice  Fox, had been acting for a considerable period in the Ranger inquiry. It was stated by the Prime Minister, who issued the Press release about  Mr Justice  Fox, that two new judges would be appointed in the Australian Capital Territory. The Attorney-General said that one of the existing judges,  Mr Justice  Joske, would postpone his retirement for three months and that it would take time to find a replacement for  Mr Justice  Fox. The Bill appointing  Mr Justice  Fox as ambassador makes provision for preserving his status, whether he resigns or not. If he does not resign there will be no room for an extra judge without amendment of the Australian Capital Territory Supreme Court Act. Unless another judge is appointed the people referred to in  Senator Ryan's  question will be in precisely the same situation as they are now. 
Recently the Australian Capital Territory Supreme Court Act was changed. Instead of requiring that a person appointed as judge should have practised law for at least five years, it now requires only that he should have had his name on the roll for five years. What does that mean? Does that mean that if there are people in the Attorney-General's Department whom the Government wants to move sideways for some reason or other can be made a judge of the Family Court? Are there any grounds for believing that they are adequately equipped to become judges or can suddenly emerge as people capable of carrying out a judicial role in society if they are moved out of their present area? Surely the analogy is a surgeon who claims to be an expert after he has passed his course. Any appointment to the bench has to be a practical man. He has to be someone who has practised in the area in which he is to operate. It is a tragedy to think that people who put themselves at the mercy of the courts could appear before someone not suitably qualified. The Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Staley)  is not paying any attention to me. He is more interested in discussing with an honourable member who will not be here after the election something that is probably irrelevant to what we are talking about now. 
The Australian Capital Territory Supreme Court enjoys a high reputation. That reputation is diminishing because of the intolerable delays that have occurred, as I have indicated. The Attorney-General's answer to  Senator Ryan  indicates one more broken promise by the Prime Minister. It is not good enough to suggest that the situation will be corrected by one of the existing judges postponing his retirement. That will simply prevent the situation from becoming even worse. I think it will become worse. I hope that the Attorney-General acts swiftly to make a new appointment and to preserve the level of esteem in which the Court is held in the Australian Capital Territory. I hope that the new appointee will be appointed also to the Federal Court, as are all other judges of the territorial courts. That means that the selection should be a person who could take his place on the Supreme Court of any State in Australia with pride and be accepted by the legal profession and the people who will be at his mercy. I would not want to see the Australian Capital Territory Supreme Court downgraded by the introduction of a judge of a lesser status than all the other territorial Supreme Court judges. 
Whilst I recognise the difficulties that face the Attorney-General in finding someone of the necessary calibre, that difficulty does not seem to present any reason why the Australian Capital Territory Supreme Court Act should not be amended to provide for two judges as promised by the Prime Minister. There should not be a long delay in appointing top-line practising lawyers to nil these important posts. It is simply not good enough when persons can be in custody for over four months before they are brought to trial. It is disgusting and degrading. It is another reason why the people will reject these individuals who have broken promises galore. This is another classic example. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Jarman)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
I take up the points raised by the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  and other speakers from this side of the House with regard to special purposes. The Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson),  in talking to this particular issue, raised the question how the ethnic groups had been consulted in regard to ethnic broadcasting and the ethnic media generally. The claim the Minister made is entirely false. The issue concerning radio station 3ZZ is a classic example. That was done against the interests, the feelings and the express desires of the ethnic communities in general. They rejected the concept. So far as they were concerned, it took away from them any reference to them in terms of programming. Instead of the ethnic communities having duly elected representatives, there would be some sort of control from the group concerned which was not essentially an ethnic group. It was an advantage for any group in the community for the purpose of expressing its own wishes in the way it so desired. 
The honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman),  who is here for only another two or three days and who will disappear then from the scene, is as devoid of knowledge on ethnic communication as is a frog is of feathers. Fancy giving the Minister the opportunity to prescribe what programs will be shown on any section of the media. Look at the performance of the Government. What about the million dollar fraud that has been perpetrated on the electors of this country. Every five minutes we see the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  on television big-noting himself like the angry ant, bolting as though he knows something about industrial relations, with electors' money being spent for the purpose of - 

 Honourable members interjecting- 

The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Jarman)Before  I hear the point of order, I point out to the honourable member for Henry and other members sitting near him that I will not tolerate that sort of outrageous outburst. I call the honourable member for Bendigo to state the point of order. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  I ask the honourable member for Melbourne to direct his remarks to clause 1 8 of the Bill. 

 -Mr Deputy Chairman, your attitude is to be commended at all times. This is another illustration of that. With regard to relevance, what I am referring to is the ability to introduce programs into the media. I am looking at the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. He would have a bonanza. Any individual in this chamber who has the talents of the Minister- I must commend him for the way he comes across- would have a bonanza on television putting up propaganda for the purpose of his own electorate image and the image of his  party. The danger of the provisions of clause 18 is that many aspects of them ought to be condemned. As far as I am concerned two points fell from the Minister's Ups in this debate. The first was his mention of consultation with ethnic groups. It is farce. It has not happened and if any honourable member would like to take time to consult the ethnic groups as to what they really want, a vasdy different principle would be applied not only in this instance but over the whole of the media. 
I am sure you do. The honourable member for Canberra yesterday called Commonwealth car drivers a heap of pumpkins. I do not think he would have the guts to say it to their faces outside. 

 -Mr Deputy Chairman - 
That the question be now put: 

<graphic href="107131197711031_67_5_4_P.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="107131197711031_67_5_2_A.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="107131197711031_67_5_1_A.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="107131197711031_67_5_3_N.jpg"></graphic>

Question so resolved in the affirmative. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 19 to 27-by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 23 March 1977: 
1 ) What steps is he taking to ensure that the recommendations made in the United Nations Conference habitat of June 1976 are being implemented so far as they relate to consultation with people rather than the imposition of the decisions of officials. 
Will he take up with his colleague the Minister for the Capital Territory the need to have the widest possible views sought as to the development of a multi-purpose recreational faculty at the Canberra showgrounds, and have that development carried out in consultation with interested bodies. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 19 October 1977: 
1 ) How many persons were registered as unemployed in Commonwealth Employment Service offices covering the Electoral Division of (a) LaTrobe, (b) Isaacs, (c) Holt, (d) Hotham and (e) Henry at the end of (i) August 1975, (ii) August 1976 and (iii) August 1977. 
What percentage of those registered was (a) male, (b) female, (c) under 2 1 years of age and (d) 2 1 years of age and over. 
What were the principal work categories of the persons registered as unemployed. 
-Can the Minister for the Capital Territory confirm a news report on Radio 2CA yesterday morning that there would be a review of the National Capital Development Commission's role? If so, will the review be merely another exercise in procrastination, with yet another endless government inquiry, or will it report in a reasonable time, which may overcome many of the criticisms, especially of planning and bureaucratic bungling, presently being levelled at the Commission? Will the review investigate transferring at least part of the Commission's responsibilities to the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to raise a matter this evening that I suppose one could regard as probably the worst example of double standards that one could imagine. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has continually belly-ached in this House about the necessity to cut back on public spending. The tighten-the-belt philosophy applies only to wage and salary earners in this community. The extravagance of members of the Government and people with whom they are closely associated is blatantly flaunted in the face of those who suffer as a result of the policy strategies of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)-  those who are unemployed and those who live in fear of being the next ones to be thrown on the scrap heap. 
The example to which I refer occurred on the weekend commencing 1 1 February this year.  Mrs Fraser,  on behalf of a  Mr Don  Burrows, requested a Commonwealth driver to drive a Volvo, a private car, to Adelaide. The vehicle carried a number of musical instruments and proceeded to Adelaide after being fuelled at government expense. The driver was instructed to stay with the vehicle at all times because of the value, for God 's sake, of the musical instruments. The driver was, of course, entitled to be paid. He was paid double time for the two days taken to get to the city and travelling time during that period. The driver was flown back to Canberra on the Monday where he picked up a Commonwealth car and proceeded to drive, for Christ's sake, the Prime Minister's butler to Bowral to attend, I presume, to the tender needs of the Prime Minister. 
The whole issue is this: We are told that the real villans in the piece are those who earn their livelihood in wages or salaries when there is a tragic shortage of cars for bush nurses in the Northern Territory because there is a lack of funds and a lack of available transport. Women's refuges are being forced to close. Women's health centres and services are being reduced clearly and unequivocally. The indication is that there will be a 20 per cent cut in the services in the Australian Capital Territory itself for the purpose of giving effect to the philosophy of the Government benches. Individuals in this House such as the honourable member for EdenMonaro  (Mr Sainsbury)  talk about the parasite syndrome. All they can suggest is that reforms might be a burden on the taxpayer. 
What is more a burden on the taxpayer than this flagrant breach of the responsibility of a department? It is the responsibility of either the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet or the Depanment of Administrative Services to tell this House just who is  Mr Don  Burrows. Who gave  Mrs Fraser  the right to have a driver carry out the delivery of the car and musical instruments in those circumstances? Who authorised the petrol charges to be part of government expense? Why was the butler not transferred in a different way? It seems to me that there are double standards. The Prime Minister has now entered the chamber. I charge him with the allegations I have put to the House tonight. He has an obligation to do one of two things. He should stand up and refute the allegations or, if they are true, be prepared to carry out an investigation of the circumstances in which his Department or the Department of Administrative Services was able to carry out the procedures I have spelt out in the allegations I have made this evening. 
-I take up the last point the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  made. He alleged that the amendment is based on the Australian Capital Territory. That claim is erroneous. What it does is to point up the problems being created by the decisions being taken in the way in which they have been taken or will be taken by the Government in passing this legislation and not giving effect to the amendment. The decisions which are given effect in this legislation prejudice the future if the principle of consultation which the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  outlined is not carried out. I claim it is not being carried out in this instance. 
I shall refer to the history of the legislation to state the basis of what needs to be done in the future and the justification for and the value of our amendment. The Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory in its December 1974 report spelt out clearly and unequivocally the confusion and the problems involving the financial arrangements in the Australian Capital Territory, as well as events that could occur in the period leading up to self-government. It did so in order that the people of the Australian Capital Territory would not enter into selfgovernment sight unseen. It spelt out the absolute necessity for consultation to take place. We submit that there is every justification to set aside this matter which has been going on for some considerable time. The Government seems to be acting with indecent haste in trying to pass such legislation without its being part of the package deal, if that is the correct terminology, to be taken up by the people in the Australian Capital Territory at the time when self-government becomes a reality. The report of the Joint Committee speaks for itself. I think there is sufficient evidence on pages 56 and 57 in section 190 of page 50- section 190 is headed 'Criticisms of These Accounts'- to show that in that report the issues to which I have made reference are facts of life. 
As I would like to give an opportunity to my colleague, the honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry)  to contribute to this debate I move on 

<graphic href="108131197803075_24_0.jpg"></graphic>

The document refers to the States and the Australian Capital Territory and sets out under various headings such things as taxation, financing items and income from enterprises. It lays out the clear picture of the Australian Capital Territory vis-a-vis the States. The gap to which reference has been made is the shortfall, as I have indicated, between expenditure and the amount of revenue collected by the Australian Capital Territory and the various States. The Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly has set up a select committee on self-government. It has gone into this matter and conducted a typical Grants Commission type exercise. It argues that the figures contained in the original document of the Minister were wrong. It says that the per capita gap for the Australian Capital Territory was $696, for New South Wales $420 and for Tasmania $704. An erroneous picture was painted at the time because to the next area that ought to be raised. I refer to the Staley proposals- that is, proposals of the former Minister for the Capital Territory now the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. They are outlined in  Hansard  of 15 September 1977. He referred to the gap between local expenditure and revenues collected in the States and showed the differences and the deficiencies that existed in Tasmania and other areas. The Minister tabled a paper entitled 'Proposals for the Constitutional Development of the Australian Capital Territory'. The paper was not printed. The assessments in that paper clearly establish once again the obligation of this Government to defer this matter for further consideration. As I will show in a few moments, that paper was clearly wrong and prejudicial to the people of the Australian Capital Territory. I seek leave to have a document incorporated in  Hansard.  The Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt),  who is at the table, has given permission for it to be incorporated. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- if the conclusions based on those figures are correct they highlight the fact that the information which the Minister gave was wrong. 
If the honourable member relates my remarks to the Minister and the type of individual he is it is quite easy to realise how he could make the mistake. Either that is the case or the Minister has been misled by public servants who have undertaken an exercise wrongly. The Government will hold the people of the Australian Capital Territory to ransom. It is nonsense to say that the Australian Capital Territory will move to self-government in such a way that everybody will be confident of what will be done and will have been able to assess the situation. The Government is trying to get them to buy a pig in a poke. The Government is also adding insult to injury by adding the effects of this legislation to the commitment of the people in the 

<graphic href="108131197803075_24_0.jpg"></graphic>

Territory without properly examining its ramifications. 
As I pointed out, the gap between the total expenditure in the States and the total local-type reserves collected in those places is a matter of conjecture. I comment on only one section of the argument. I think it has been probably spelt out clearly and unequivocally in documentation that has been presented time and time again that Canberra is the only Australian city- it is one of the few cities in the world- which is not founded for some reason of natural commercial advantage. The community is small and the Territory has limited natural resources for future commercial exploitation. The planning philosophy emphasises dispersed residential areas, large amounts of open space and extensive land use. The high standard of operation and maintenance is influenced by the National Capital image and determined by decisions of the Commonwealth Government, not by the ratepayers, and is influenced by the tourist showcase need. The principal industry- the Commonwealth Government and the Public Service- is not taxable or ratable. The Commonwealth does not pay rates on any of the land it occupies or reserves. It does not pay such taxes as payroll tax, stamp duty or motor registration. The Commonwealth Government does not pay rates in other parts of Australia. The Constitution bars the imposition of taxes on the Commonwealth by the Australian States. 
A whole range of problems has to be genuinely discussed between the Minister responsible and the representatives of the people of the Territory. Therefore the amendment is of great value in allowing these things to be taken into account. My colleague, the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis),  pointed up to the fact that an anomaly exists between local government authorities and a complex in Campbelltown. Comparisons can be drawn. Why the indecent haste? Why does the Government have to rush in at this time? Why is it not prepared to set aside time for consideration of the matter? 
The other point I raise relates to financial arrangements. The previous Minister for the Capital Territory said that consultation would take place. Proper and adequate consultation has not occurred. That being the case the picture is not as rosy as that painted by the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  who suggested that it was only a matter of a question being asked by the people of Canberra and answered by the Government. I assure him it is not. The schedule refers to the Australian Capital Territory but we certainly do not know where that will finish. What will be the next issue involved? Will it relate to other areas of concern for the people in the Northern Territory? Will it simply be once again this Government displaying its scant respect for the people of this Territory and other local areas by running roughshod over them. There is no necessity for haste. The issue has been outstanding for some time. The relevant ordinance has certain implications in it. It probably has not been tested to its fullest extent. 
The run up to self-government is farcical. I understand that a telephonic vote was taken and there was an overwhelming indication that people did not want self-government. Why would they want self-government? Why would they vote for self-government when they would have self-government sight unseen if this Bill is any example. It seems to me that all the work of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory and the consistent raising of matters by members from the Legislative Assembly have been wasted. The Minister for Health, who is sitting at the table, and some of his colleagues were part of a unanimous decision calling on the Government to set this matter aside, not to rush in with indecent haste, to consult with them and to show that this could be one of the things within the whole financial arrangement that would lead to self-government in the Territory. 
I think we have established a case that cannot be argued against. Last evening the Legislative Assembly unanimously voted for the principle that is in the amendment. It seems to me that the previous Minister for the Capital Territory either purposely, or alternatively because of advice, misled the House on the correct position of per capita grants. The present investigations of this select committee of the Legislative Assembly have indicated also that if the Australian Capital Territory gained self-government it would not be in worse position than Tasmania and that it would almost maintain the status quo, as it were, in the application of rates and the like. In justice and equity, this is another argument which supports the Opposition's stand that the amendment ought to be carried. 
I state finally that I think the amendment does not present an outrageous suggestion to the Government. But it is obvious that the amendment will be treated with scant respect- the same scant respect with which this Government treats the people of the Australian Capital Territory and the people of other local authorities when it is considering their destiny and future. If selfgovernment means anything the Government must come clean in respect to this matter. It must tell the people of the Australian Capital Territory what is before them. They must know the burden and what they  will have to  pay. What is the price they will pay for self-government? We are not objecting so much to the legislation itself in the overall sense. What we are saying is that this matter will affect the future financial position of the Australian Capital Territory. It ought to be considered in the light of the financial arrangements to be entered into finally with the people of the Territory so that they can lead up to selfgovernment and truly have it as a right, not to confront the impost of the burden that this Government is prepared to put upon them without any redress or consultation. 
I rise to speak in the Address-in-Reply to the GovernorGeneral's Speech. The post of GovernorGeneral has never been one renowned for its occupancy by men of radical or even mildly progressive bent. In that sense  Sir Zelman  Cowen is a good choice as he maintains the tradition of conservatism and reaction for which the post is known. However, I suggest that on 2 1 February even  Sir Zelman  must have been embarrassed by the conservatism and the stodginess of the program thrust before him to read to this Parliament. I suggest that the conservatism and stodginess are understandable when one looks at the author of this unimaginative and restricting program. I refer this evening to several disturbing aspects of that program. Firstly, at the general level, it offers little hope to the ordinary Australian in the years ahead. It admits that the Government does not intend to attack unemployment by stating: 
My Government rejects the notion that there can be a trade-off between inflation and unemployment. 
I will return to that matter in more detail, but remaining on the general level that statement, combined with the continued refusal of this Government to revitalise the economy through the public sector, its continued determination to clamp down on any movement aimed at improving life styles in this country, its insistence that the workers and wage earners of Australia must pay the cost of our economic crisis, the sheer pall over any growth, the sheer lack of any excitement or any feeling of national pride or development generated by this Speech, indicate a general feeling of inertia and boredom in our society. But worse than that, there are undertones of direct repression and jackbootery tucked away among the euphemisms poured out by the Governor-General. The Government's deep concern about the outbursts of violence and its commitment to what effectively means an expansion of the spy functions of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation pose severe and real threats to the civil liberties of many honest Australians active in movements which do not please the Government's philosophy of big business making profits at all costs. I would like to make a point about the clamp down on terrorism, the tightening of security and the unprecedented use of troops in Sydney and Bowral in recent weeks. 
I will explain that in a moment. What happened last week in this Parliament is indicative of the same syndrome. There is something strange about the Sydney bombing. Its timing, for instance, could not have been more perfect for the Government. In the weeks immediately preceding the explosion there had been two significant events affecting the spy forces in this country. The first was the now wellknown sacking of the South Australian Police Commissioner who placed himself above the Government only to be, perhaps as an afterthought, subservient to the Governor-General whom he thought was a great guy who would not possibly resort to those tactics. This occurred after a report from an acting judge in that State indicated that the Commissioner had misled Parliament over the affairs of the State's special branch. The report found that the special branch kept files on people active in almost any progressive force in the State; from peace movements to the women's movement and to conservationists simply trying to save the environment. All of these people were branded as saboteurs and traitors by the special branch. There were even files on all Labor parliamentarians but, appropriately, very few conservative politicians even rated a mention. 
It is understandable, of course, that anybody in a progressive movement ought to be mentioned on these files. The special branches and the whole security network, including the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation, the Joint Intelligence Organisation and even the Australian Security Intelligence Service exist purely to preserve the status quo. That status quo, very simply, is a selfish, every person for himself system that ensures that a small minority of Australians and international business people make millions of dollars at the expense of the majority. Conservation movements threaten the system and income by urging controls over the amount of waste and rubbish industry can spew into the air, our rivers, our oceans and our earth. Industry and conservative governments see these controls in only one way: They threaten the profits of big business. 
That is why the Government attacks the antiuranium lobby and why police have been used against it. Uranium presents one of the greatest threats the world has faced. It represents a genuine threat to our very existence. But honourable members opposite and their mining friends simply want the profits today and hang the consequences for future generations. The hypocrisy of this attitude is spelled out in their attitude to uranium waste. When the present Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  was asked whether we would bring the uranium waste back to Australia, he said: 'Oh, not on your life '. As far as the Government is concerned, it is all care and no responsibility. That is why this Government attacks all the worthwhile areas of activity in this country. There is no morality displayed on the part of honourable members opposite, nor is there any morality in the mining lobby. In particular, no morality is shown by honourable members who sit on the front bench of this Government. They use euphemistic terms like 'responsibility' and the 'national good' to hide their real intentions. But to ensure that their real intentions are not thwarted, they surround themselves with spies and security bodies. They feel themselves theatened when those bodies are challenged or threatened, when the presumed right of the police and spies to tap the telephone of anybody they please or to keep files on anybody they please, is challenged. 
The honourable member who represents that great electorate that  Sir John  Gorton represented for some considerable time laughs. But he would not know the first thing about security. He has never been a member of a union in his life. He has never suffered the repression that unionists suffer in their attempts to represent the people they are elected to represent. They are not like the honourable member; they were not born with a silver spoon in the mouth and know no other way of life. I feel a little sorry for the honourable member, actually. To make matters worse, it was discovered that the leader of the New South Wales Opposition, a man known for many years for his arch reactionary views, was exposed as being involved in planning a newspaper which aimed to undermine the progressive forces in this country. Its format was presumably the age-old one of putting the most conservative arguments with a dash of small '1' liberalism. Honourable members can see what has happened to the small '1' liberals in this Parliament. They all finish up with darns in their ties or alternatively they struggle on an issue to gain a once only seat in the Senate. That is what has happened to  Mr Chipp  and to other people who even lauded themselves as small '1' liberals. I do not believe that they ever were. In the wake of the sensations, with the whole security network feeling somewhat insecure and probably feeling itself under the microscope from the Press, although in reality the Press analysis was little better than a scratchy monocle, with the conservative governments and conservative oppositions of this country worried about what dirty linen might come out in the wash, with business disturbed that one of its strongest supporters was under attack, the Sydney bombing got them off the hook. I am not for one moment suggesting that the person who was responsible for such an outrage is not despicable and ought not to run the course of what is justly coming to him. But I am referring to the antagonism of the philosophy of honourable members opposite, a philosophy that presses people into desperate situations, particularly hunting the unemployed, the dole bludger syndrome and the parasite syndrome- all expounded by the parasites on the Government back benches. 
There is also this nurturing of people's feelings. For instance, I refer to the so-called power of the media at the moment that governs the issue of so-called public opinion polls. Public opinion polls now guide the opinion of individuals and do not ask for it. Public opinion polls condition people to accept the fact that the use of troops in the interests of the security of this country will be the order of the day. They will be brought out to deal with workers who have the audacity to stand up for what they believe is right. It is also a conditioning of the people to understand that an unemployment rate of 5 per cent, 6 per cent or 7 per cent is not an unreasonable situation in the development of the capitalist society at this point in time. Of course, it is not. The former Treasurer, the honourable member for Flinders  (Mr Lynch),  got his fingers caught in the old Jewish piano. He was the man who presented Budgets in previous years. When he was really caught in the difficult situation in which he found himself, the old Prime Minister dropped him like a hot potato. He must have something on the Prime Minister because he is back on the front bench. Honourable members can rest assured that he has not heard the last of that. 
I submit that the minds of the people are being conditioned by the very thing that we look to in order to present an unbiased view of what might be happening in regard to the news in this country. I suspect that whoever planted the bomb may not have known the rubbish bin was collected at 1.30 a.m. I hasten to say that individuals may be sick in mind. The unfortunate part about it is that really we do not know and probably might never know in fact who did it. So we must not point the finger at terrorists or people who are sick. Excuses can be offered. It is unfortunate that people have suffered. We all feel for the families of the two garbage men and the constable who have died. But surely it is a poor political gimmick to use those sorts of situations effectively to put before the House a reason to bring out the troops at the drop of a hat. 
The Prime Minister effectively declared martial law, whether he likes to call it that or not. It is a rose by any other name. The implications for civil liberties and human rights in this country are frightening. When the Prime Minister can call out the troops at his whim, how far are we from the pro-Western terror regimes such as those in Chile, Indonesia, Malaysia - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! I ask the honourable member for Higgins to cease interjecting. 
The honourable member cannot help himself,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  Interjecting comes naturally to him. How far is Australia from the pro- Western terror regimes of Chile, Indonesia, Malaysia, Singapore and other countries which curtail human rights ruthlessly? The economic policies outlined by the GovernorGeneral are also disturbing. I have mentioned already the non-commitment to attack unemployment. It seems to me that honourable members opposite, in particular the Prime Minister, treat this Parliament with scant respect. The Prime Minister is prepared in an adjournment debate to tell a deliberate lie in the House. I charge him with telling a deliberate lie. I will go on - 
-Firstly, I wish to say that I genuinely commiserate with the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  who unfortunately paid the penalty of being honest and just. I wish him well in the future. I think that the way he has been treated is disgraceful. The Governor-General's Speech is almost a repeat performance of what we have learned to expect from speeches written for the person who unfortunately has to present such drivel at the opening of Parliament. The Governor-General's Speech contains the same hypocrisy almost word for word as that contained in  Her  Majesty's Speech delivered in 1977. 
You are, most definitely. You are a real smart Alec and you will not be here after the next election. I have mentioned on other occasions the conservatism, lack of imagination and sheer blandness of the Speech to this Parliament. I rise to support the amendment to the Address-in-Reply because it is timely to include those words moved in the amendment by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis).  Without the amendment, the whole thing is baseless and useless. The Speech was depressing and, stripped of its euphemistic grandness and its attempts to describe grandly the most unimaginative legislative and administrative program, it means the perpetration of an economic crisis and the Government's determination that wage and salary earners- millions of Australians- will pay the price of recovery, if the economy is to recover in the foreseeable future from the deep trough in which this Government has put it. The Government has adopted an immoral policy geared to assist only those few Australians and overseas friends of the Government and the Liberal Party whose raison d'etre is solely to increase profits regardless. It is a successful policy for the Government's friends who are making increasing profits while the real purchasing power of wages and salaries is declining alarmingly. According to this Government it is not declining fast enough. 
Tonight I do not wish to speak specifically about those working people suffering intolerable wage injustice and therefore injustice in declining living standards. Despite their problems- I do not wish to under-emphasise them- there is a group of people in our society living under even worse conditions. A solid core of homeless men and women are suffering unnecessary hardship because of the refusal of this Government to cater for their fundamental needs. In a time of government sponsored unemployment the Government's responsibility to these people ought to increase. Naturally, with a government insensitive enough to human needs to create record unemployment, nothing has been done for the homeless. The cruel attack on the youth in the Government's unemployment policy has resulted in an alarming increase in young homeless. 
Statistics from a Melbourne institution for homeless persons verified this increase. The Salvation Army has taken out figures for the Gill accommodation centre, a traditional centre for homeless men. The figures show an increase of almost 7 per cent in the past year of residents in the 18 to 25-year age group. The group of 18 to 25-year olds represented 18.85 per cent of the total, compared to 1 1.8 per cent in the previous 12-month period. Even more alarming is that in the breakdown of age groups, the 21 to 25-year old age group was the second highest of any age group. The highest group, with 12.83 per cent of the population, was the 46 to 50-year olds. In those groups, divided into 5 -year blocks up to 60 years and over, the 2 1 to 25-year old figure becomes frightening. The second highest group, with 11.67 per cent, were in this age group. A staggering 7.18 per cent were in the 20 years and under group. This was higher than the 56 years and over age group. 
The social trauma to which this massive increase in young homeless can be attributed is the unemployment rate. In my electorate, where by its very nature the unemployment rate is high, the youth rate was about 21 per cent of the total at the end of February. At the Collingwood office 2,344 persons were registered as unemployed and 506 of those were juniors. The junior males and junior females were almost evenly divided at 251 and 255 respectively. I will touch upon the significance of the junior female figures presently. The number of unemployed young people registered and the hidden numbers of unregistered juniors in the community represent a major social catastrophe. That catastrophe now is reflected in the numbers of youth in the homeless, both male and female. The Gill figures reveal the situation only with regard to males but in the past few weeks a project conducted by four Melbourne students under the control of a professional social worker entitled 'A Study of Homeless Women in Melbourne' has unveiled a crisis in Melbourne that the nature of the homeless women problem generally has hidden from society. 
This happens for two reasons. One is the lack of facilities for homeless women, by comparison with the limited facilities available for men, and the second is the tendency of women to make accommodation their prime concern. In other words, many women who could be classified homeless live in dingy, filthy rooms on which they spend all their minimal incomes or live in de facto relationships, mostly in squalid conditions simply to guarantee a roof for themselves. The study makes revealing and depressing reading as it uncovers a major social problem about which the authorities are doing virtually nothing. Since the establishment of a homeless persons' section within the Federal Depanment of Social Security there has been some activity in the area for men, but women have received limited assistance. This is no reflection upon the staff* in that section but it does reflect the difficulties inherent in the problem. 
One of the disturbing aspects of the study is that a number of women, or girls in this case, who were interviewed were as young as 1 5 years of age. They had been in a homeless situation for some time, alternating between rooms, State hostels, church establishments and de facto relationships. They had drink or drug problems, often had babies or were pregnant, and had a most depressing and pessimistic view of their lives and their futures. Two 15-year olds said they wanted to die or wished they had never been born. Yet the greatest need these people saw for homeless girls and women was flats or community houses where they could establish personal or general relationships. These are areas for which the Government ought to be providing an answer, instead of going on with all the drivel contained in the Governor-General's Speech. The existing State and church establishments do not serve their needs. They are seen as structured and too disciplined and often the homeless people cannot relate to do-gooders whom they feel have no genuine sympathy or rapport with their problems or life style. 
Last year I supported an application by the Salvation Army in my electorate for a Commonwealth Youth Support scheme grant of about $25,000 to assist homeless male and female youth. The Salvation Army is acutely aware of the problem because of its first hand contact with it on a day to day basis, although I suspect its contact is far more with males. Its submission does not discriminate sexually and would provide assistance for all homeless youth contacted by the scheme. The money provided under the grant will be used by the Salvation Army for an employment training scheme. However, through Army funds and possibly a homeless persons' grant, accommodation would be envisaged also under the scheme. One aspect of the high rate of unemployed youth passing through the Gill home and places like it is the effect that such an establishment must have on young people. 
The Salvation Army points out that young people are forced to these places because of an unemployment crisis. They are not alcoholics and Skid Row homeless per se. Certainly, some have alcohol problems but this is a result rather than the cause. However, their problems bring them in contact with what could be described as an exacerbation of the problem by virtue of the type of people with whom they are in contact in the circumstances in which they find themselves. That is a serious consideration, especially for a government which has created a course of economic policies designed to assist only those people at the opposite end of the social scale to those I am discussing today. This Government has increased the numbers of young homeless seeking accommodation at the appropriate home or living in dingy rooms with empty cupboards and tragic futures. It is this Government's responsibility to assist the victims of its cruel, deliberate policies of making working and non-working people of Australia pay for the ills of an economic system over which they have no control. 
The Salvation Army program aims at assisting the less fortunate of these victims. Briefly, it is an outreach workers program. I point to one area of the difficulty. One would not need to have much imagination or to spend much time in electorates such as Melbourne in areas which are isolated by virtue of their geographic position to see that that problem can be multiplied tenfold in certain other circumstances. The attacks that Government supporters, particularly Ministers, have made go only one way. Their whole attitude constitutes a deliberate program of union bashing. The destinies of the individuals to whom I have referred and others are left to the whim of the marketplace. The Government feels that everything will right itself in time. But it seems to me that the problem is not going away. The policies that were spelt out in  Her  Majesty's Speech on the occasion of the opening of the previous Parliament and what has been spelt out on this occasion have not supplied the answer. The situation is getting worse. What a one-way traffic it is. I refer to the Minister for Home Affairs  (Mr Ellicott).  There is a problem on Christmas Island in which the Government euphemistically refers to the people . . . 
They are termed regionally engaged employees. The Minister should go there and face the magistrate. He is trying to avoid having a summons served on him for breaching the agreement. 
Why do you not tell the Minister to stop interjecting? 
-That is all right. You keep writing on your little piece of paper and I will talk about your failure to look after the individuals who need your assistance. 
The Minister pontificates about what is happening in Canberra. 
What you have done in this case- 
You will have to face up to the problem because it is your fault it has gone this far. In outbursts from the other side we hear the cry: 'Go to arbitration; accept the umpire's decision'. I have referred previously to a Chinese lass who has been underpaid. There was a breach of an agreement. Pressure was put on the magistrate so that a summons would not be served on the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Ellicott).  I ask the Minister why does he not go over to Christmas Island and fix the problem there. 
The Minister talks about Canberra bashing and big notes himself before the people of Canberra by referring to the politicians in other States. I should mention that the people he described as Canberra bashers were the Joh Bjelke-Petersens and others who take that sort of attitude. The people who really are bashing the people of Canberra and the Australian Capital Territory are those who are enforcing the policies which were spelt out in the Governor-General 's Speech. The situation cannot be corrected by the flowery words of the Minister for the Capital Territory nor by the presentation of a Speech such as we heard at the opening of the Parliament. 
The Opposition's amendment sets out a positive program and spells out clearly that the Government has failed to deal adequately with the record level of unemployment. We keep hearing about declining inflation, however minor and temporary it may be, but the dole queues are extending, people on the poverty line are getting poorer and those in the unfortunate position of being discriminated against are being subjected to even more discrimination. There is only one solution at this time and that is for the Government to accept the amendment. At least by doing so it will be facing up to the fact that it has failed dismally. If the Government had any decency it would resign and go to the people. It would learn how they have fared in the few months it has been in office since the last election. The amendment adds the only decent comments to appear in the motion for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply and ought to be carried. 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Capital Territory in his capacity as Minister for Home Affairs. Is he aware of the formulation of a plan for the evacuation of Christmas Island which would reduce the population to 120 persons? Did the Minister's Department initiate this development or was the plan initiated solely by the Christmas Island Administration? 
Honourable members opposite might laugh, but this matter is very important to the people of Christmas Island. 
There ought to be an excavation for you. I am talking about an evacuation of Christmas Island. Is the Minister aware - 
I should like to say at the outset that the Opposition welcomes the statement by the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley),  although it does have some disagreement on points of detail. I know that the Minister has complied with the notification requirements in relation to the presentation of ministerial statements but I think that he would readily agree that the philosophical statement and the details laid down in the guidelines for planning are somewhat complex and may well need some consideration at some later time. Once again the philosophy on any of these propositions is very good. The Government is to be commended for the way in which these propositions have been presented. They are very appealing to the Opposition. However, it is the implementation of that philosophy in line with the guidelines with which we are particularly concerned. This statement is refreshing in its frank approach to broadcasting in Australia after two years of vacillation and ad hoc decisionmalting by the previous Minister. 
The issues and principles are set out in the statement. Page 4 of the statement mentions the: 
. complex and dynamic society in which we live requires considerable flexibility in the planning process, to ensure effective response to changing needs. 
I think this is necessarily a very fine principle but once again it needs to be implemented and applied if the whole philosophy on broadcasting is to mean anything. On the same page of the statement reference is made to the very nature of the public broadcasting sector which makes close involvement between public broadcasters and the communities they hope to serve. Reference is made also to Aboriginal communities and broadcasters of Christian programs. The Opposition hopes that ethnic communities particularly are to be included. I note that they did not rate a mention in the statement, but I am sure that that is only an oversight. 
I am assured by the Minister that it was an oversight. The Minister, in his general observations at the beginning of the statement, rightly emphasised three points which are particularly relevant to the somewhat unique broadcasting structure in Australia: Firstly, the fact that the airwaves are a limited public resource; secondly, the need for government involvement as the ultimate arbiter in relation to the use and development of that resource; and, thirdly, the need for a definition of the philosophy of broadcasting in Australia. The Parliament will be aware that only recently the General Manager of the Australian Broadcasting Commission,  Mr Duckmanton,  called for a statement on broadcasting philosophy. For years an attempt at philosophy has been expressed in terms of a need for adequate and comprehensive programming' or more recently in the words of the Broadcasting Tribunal report 'a need for an Australian look'. In fact a number of important statements by bodies such as the Green inquiry into broadcasting were ignored until this statement in which the Minister started to take them up. Members of the Opposition need an opportunity to examine in detail the statement and the results of that inquiry and to comment on those matters. The Opposition welcomes the opportunity which Parliament has both now and, as promised, in future to discuss the whole philosophy of broadcasting. The technology, the expertise and initiatives with regard to public broadcasting have been available for a number of years in order to develop a vigorous and viable public broadcasting sector. 
The Public Broadcasting Association of Australia is a well-informed and responsible organisation whose initiatives hitherto have been frustrated. The Minister's discussion of the guidelines with the Public Broadcasting Association is an example of how the Government and the Parliament can co-operate constructively with community organisations. Ethnic community organisations ought to avail themselves and do avail themselves of the procedures outlined by the Minister. That is a fair example of what can be done. 
Two events seem to have motivated the Government's new initiatives in relation to public broadcasting. The first was the initiative of  President  Carter in supporting the already active and virile public broadcasting movement in America which led the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to dispatch  Mr Westerway  of the Postal and Telecommunications Department to America late last year to study these developments. It was a totally necessary visit. The second event was the appointment of a new Minister who seems to be at least prepared, on the basis of the present statement, to grapple with the problems. While there will be, undoubtedly, disputation about the detailed implementation of the public broadcasting policy, the statement of the Minister promises that that development at least will now take place. 
The Opposition is convinced that it will be in the interest of all sections of the Australian community. As I indicated at the outset, we believe that some of the points of detail- once again we can lay out the principles, how they should apply and what may well be the working effect of the procedures in the future- need to be considered. Other honourable members wish to participate in this debate. I have been given an assurance by the Minister for the Capital Territory that honourable members will be afforded an opportunity to speak in this debate at a later stage. Therefore I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I do. 
My attention has been drawn to a newspaper article contained in the  Daily Telegraph  of Friday, 5 May, under the name of Leigh Bottrell. The major heading is 'Today' and the sub-heading is 'Blow to prestige'. The article reads: 
An exchange of rude notes between the National Country Party's  Mr Steve  Lusher and Labor's  Mr Ted  Innes in Federal Parliament does little to enhance the standing of our national legislative body. 
The pair are among the more fiery of the people's representatives and are not known to see eye-to-eye on anything. 
But note-passing which ends in one inquiring of the other if he'd like a punch in the face surely takes their animosity too far. 
I join with my parliamentary colleague the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher)  in stating categorically that the article is a complete fabrication. I have never at any time corresponded with the honourable gentleman on any matter or received any note from him, rude or otherwise, across the chamber. I have not sent one. It is a malicious and totally untrue article, typical of some of the reporting by the Press, in particular by the Murdoch group. I should inform the House also that I have initiated legal proceedings in respect of this article in order to protect my reputation and in an endeavour to have people in this Parliament protected against such slanderous reporting. 
-We readily agree that the document tabled by the Minister for Home Affairs  (Mr Ellicott)  outlining the Government's policy on Norfolk Island, ought to be tabled for the information of honourable members. Whilst acknowledging some aspects of the move to partial self-government for the Island, the Opposition is highly critical of the delay in implementing the recommendations of the Royal Commission which was headed by  Mr Justice  Nimmo. Its report was presented to the Governor-General,  Sir John  Kerr, on 1 5 October 1976. So there has been a delay of some 17 months during which time a lot of lobbying has been going on by influential people from the Island for a certain course to be taken. Also during that time the wealthy tax dodgers and exploiters and some of the parasites have continued to enjoy a bonanza at the expense of the Australian taxpayers and the indigenous people on the Island. 
On page 8 of the statement by the Minister, it is indicated that the basic principles contained in the Nimmo report have been implemented. Not only is this misleading, but it is also quite untrue. The report, if objectively read, clearly sets out principles which, if applied to the situation on the Island, would go a long way towards setting people on the road to proper self-determination as part of Australia, snaring the responsibilities and also reaping the benefits of being part of our great country. This would eliminate the exploitation and the tax-dodging by these so-called paper companies, companies which simply carry out paper transactions for the purpose of tax evasion. They are saving millions of dollars a year by that process. Page 232 of the report contains a table setting out company accounts and volume of money transactions for Norfolk Island. On page 233 of the report, estimates of tax lost to Australia are clearly spelt out. I might add that we see in the Commonwealth Trading Bank accounts for Norfolk Island, some $15,581,400 was transacted in 1975, while in the Bank of New South Wales accounts, the amount was $65,559,000. So we can see the method of  evasion that was carried out by a number of companies on the Island. 
-I will tell the honourable member how they are doing it. An individual called Elton Douglas Foote set up a triangular arrangement between a company registered on Norfolk Island, a company in Hong Kong which manufactured a detergent called Swipe and a buffer company between them and the outlet in Japan. By that arrangement they avoided taxation in three countries. All they did was transfer the money from the company in Hong Kong to Norfolk Island. The honourable member for Canberra has been to Norfolk Island big-noting himself. He wants a slice of the action. He wants to represent the place. Of course there are many other aspects of such cases and tax dodges about which my friend, the honourable member for Canberra would be well aware. 
The statement talks about a feasibility study. That must be some sort of a joke. On pages 3 and 4 of the statement there is talk of the procedures for the feasibility study and the guidelines that would be discussed with the Council itself. Unless we have a royal commission into the activities of these companies to which I have referred, where will the Government get the authority to investigate such activities? Surely if the Government is going to take any action- surely it is the Government's obligation to take that actionthen clearly it has to understand what the situation is all about. After all, the Nimmo inquiry carried out such an investigation. It carried out a feasibility study. An examination of the report provides plenty of material for the Government to act on but it has not done so. The report of  Sir John  Nimmo was an excellent one. It is to the credit of the learned judge. He applied himself and carried out the investigation that produced such a fine result. The principle contained in the report that has not been implemented by virtue of the statement is that the plight of people of Pitcairn Island- less than half the population, those who are genuine Pitcairners- those on the lower spoke of fortune's wheel has been completely ignored. The Government's policy outlined in the statement comes down heavily on the side of the exploiters, one of whom I have pointed out here this afternoon. 
There were some 74 recommendations in the report. The Government has sacrificed the value of those recommendations at the altar of the money people manipulating the situation at the moment. The companies registered are contained on pages 23 1 and 253. Those companies have risen in number since 1975, when the inquiry took place and when there was a drop in the number of those companies involved, to somewhere in the vicinity of 981. A reference to the report will clarify the number. From that point onwards there has been a gradual increase back to about the 1 974 level. This may well have been encouraged by the Minister for Home Affairs  (Mr Ellicott)  who is at the table. I hasten to say that I am not criticising him for acting in his professional capacity. It must have given great heart to the people who are the moneyed interests on Norfolk Island. He and another Queen's Counsel prepared an opinion, which was reported in the  Canberra Times  in a book review by Frank Cranston under the heading Action Seems Close on This Political Hot Potato. The review goes on to say that the Council on the Island thinks that it is a very astute legal opinion. The article then states: 
Prepared by two eminent Sydney Queen's Counsel in August, 197S, the advice gave significant encouragement to islanders who believed they were threatened by the intentions of the then-Labor Government toward their tiny Pacific paradise. 
. . although the Commonwealth Parliament has legal power under Section 122 of the Constitution to impose taxes or other imposts on the people of Norfolk Island for whatever purpose it thinks fit, to do so could well be in breach of a well-entrenched constitutional convention. 
This in our view is a further very significant matter to be taken into account in relation to the future constitutional relationship between Australia and Norfolk Island', the learned counsel said. 
The point I am making is that that concept is enshrined in the statement. What are we doing? What actions are we going to take to prevent the sorts of things to which I have made reference? What has the Taxation Department done over that period since Barwick announced the situation? It has done absolutely nothing. It has not stopped at that point. Taxation evasion in respect of stamp duty and death duties must be costing the Commonwealth Government and the States hundreds of millions of dollars a year. As I indicated, the Government has done nothing. By the look of it, it does not appear that it will be doing anything at all. 
I acknowledge the fact that in part of the statement there is reference to some measure of self government. However, I repeat that the basic principles of the Nimmo report have been completely ignored. Is there a stated intention of doing anything else about it? If there is not, the Minister might tell us what the Government is prepared to do about it. He might inform the House why up to this time the Taxation Department has not moved. As I said, the statement is heavily biased on the side of the wealthy and  those vested interests on the Island. It allows the continued exploitation of those people who are properly the descendants of the Pitcairn Islanders. They have been exploited in more ways than one. They have been kidded into selling their property for a song. Now that the landholdings have been subdivided they are that expensive that the people in that situation cannot buy them at all. So it goes on. At this point for the purpose of providing information I seek the incorporation in  Hansard  of answers given by  Senator Withers  to questions in another place. I have spoken to the Minister on this matter. 
Leave granted. 

 The documents read as follows- 

-It is the old, old story: Why didn't you do it? The Nimmo report has been out for 17 months but not one action has been taken. You have just sidestepped the issue and followed the pattern of your own opinion. That is what you did. 
I have read the Nimmo report. It is about time that you read it. Not only should you read it, but the 74 recommendations and the principles spelt out in them would achieve all the aims to which I have made reference. We are a party to international covenants on social welfare and the like. The Nimmo report spells it out chapter and verse. What have we done about that? The pensioners on the Island, by grace and favour, for God's sake, were getting before the Nimmo inquiry $10 a week to live on or to exist on. Later, it became $20. The point I am making is that a whole range of recommendations have been completely and utterly ignored. What do we see in the statement? Lip service is paid by the Minister to the recommendations and the principles clearly spelt out in the report. We call on the Government not just simply to talk in terms of a so-called self-determination, which means very, very little in many respects. It ought to concentrate clearly on the other issues, prevent this tax evasion and do the job for which it has been elected. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder! The honourable member's time has expired. 

-I pick up the point made by the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  in concluding his speech. The Government is so paranoid about the sacred cow of inflation that it clearly sets aside the issue of unemployment and the way in which people who find themselves in that situation live. The current circumstances of the economy have influenced that action. The Government has no real feeling for people who are unemployed. We hear only huffing and puffing from it. The Opposition has indicated clearly that it has no faith in the legislation. If the legislation were set on its proper course, if the Government were serious about getting the grass roots of this problem and looking at the issue of unemployment, its effects, and the rationalisation of industry together with the co-ordination of education programs for the purpose of achieving rationalisation side by side with retraining, and if the legislation had the scope to deal with population policies, the size and shape of population for the future and where those policies fit in with the immigration program and the availability of employment, we would - 
This is his maiden speech. All we hear from him are interjections - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar) Order! The honourable member for Melbourne will resume his seat. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications which refers to the issue of television viewers' licences. I refer the Minister to two answers given on the subject, one by himself to my colleague the honourable member for Fraser, and another answer given in another place by  Senator Carrick  to  Senator Melzer.  The last answer was given as late as 2 May 1978 when  Senator Carrick,  on behalf of the Minister, categorically denied that television licences were being prepared in order to be introduced. I ask the Minister to verify or to deny the answer given to  Senator Melzer.  If he cannot do so and if it is a fact that television licences are being printed and are about to be introduced, will he inform the House of the cost of a licence and why the Government continues to mislead the people of Australia by going back on its undertakings? 
I would like to say at the outset that the honourable member for Berowra  (Dr Edwards)  astounds me. He has continued the deception and deceit that was exposed in what the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  said in his speech to the Sydney Chamber of Commerce at the Wentworth Hotel. The honourable member for Berowra has exchanged his mortarboard for 30 pieces of silver, hawking his capacity as an academic around to the highest bidder. 
-It is quite true. The honourable member can be sure about that. I shall enlarge on what I said about deceit and deception. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  this morning during Question Time went to great lengths to quote one aspect of the speech of the Leader of the Opposition who said that any government can bring in inflation quickly by almost any amount that it cares to name. But the Prime Minister did not go on and quote the next two lines.  Mr Hayden  went on to say: 'All that had to be decided was a social and economic cost.' That is the crunch decision. The Government and all those little puppets on the back bench- incidentally, it is quite clear that the honourable member for Berowra will never make the front bench because he has not made it now so he never will- ignore the major thrust of the argument. According to the thrust of the argument of the Government in its successive submissions to national wage cases, real wages overhang is now running at about 10 per cent. The thrust of it argument supported continuing requests for nil wage indexation flow-on. That means that real wages should be reduced by 10 per cent. That is around $18 a week. Yet over the past two years real wages have been effectively reduced by over $ 1 2 a week. So that is the justice that the honourable member for Berowra speaks about. I shall explain a little later how honourable members on the Government side support taxation dodges that are going on every day of the week on Norfolk Island. I shall refer to the detail in one moment. 
I shall refer to another aspect of the policies of the Government. Today we heard the impassioned speech by the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt).  The effect of the Budget on those who can ill afford it is seen in that speech. About 800,000 social security recipients, people receiving unemployment and sickness benefits, single parents and many age pensioners will now have to pay doctors who can no longer bulk-bill. This is the result of the attitude of the Government. In the light of this great sacred cow of the market place and its mad bent and tired endeavours to reduce inflation at all costs, who will be the sufferer? Of course, it will be the pensioners. The saving is something like $24m in a total cost of $3,000m which is less than one per cent. That is the amount of money that the Prime Minister has used on VIP aircraft. We have to get our priorities right. So VIP aircraft mean more to the Government than do the recipients of social security benefits who need medical attention and who will be placed in the situation of now having to pay. Now our silent friends on the back benches on the Government side should tell the pensioners in their electorates about this matter. 
The honourable member would not know. The only speeches that the honourable member for Hotham makes in this place are interjections. He would not know the first thing about the matter. I challenge him to read the speech if he can. If he would like to spend the time a little later I shall explain to him how the pensioners will suffer under the scheme. Other areas are attacked by the policies of the Government because of the philosophy that flows through the Budget strategy. Cruel attacks are made on the young. The unemployment policy has resulted in alarming increases in the young homeless in my electorate. Statistics from Melbourne institutions for homeless men verify this increase. The Salvation Army has taken out figures for the Gill accommodation centre, a traditional Melbourne centre for homeless men. They show an increase of almost 7 per cent in the past year for residents in the 18 to 25 years age group. Eighteen to 25 year olds represent 18.85 per cent of the total population, compared with 1 1.86 per cent in the previous 12-month period. Even more alarming is the fact that, in the breakdown of age groups, the 2 1 to 25 year old group was the second highest of any age group. The highest group, with 12.83 per cent of the population, was the 46 to 50 year olds. The age groups are divided into five year blocks, going up to 60 years and over. The 21 to 25 year old figure is frightening. The second highest group- 11.67 per cent- were in this age block. A staggering 7.18 per cent were 20 years of age and under. This was higher than the group of 56 years and over. 
The tragedy of this, of course, is that young girls are forced into prostitution, forced into areas where they cannot hold up their heads, purely and simply to keep a roof over their head. We see the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Roger Johnston)  hang his head. He ought to hang his head, because bis Government is responsible for this situation. He sheds crocodile tears in his electorate. 
In fact, he is laughing, as the honourable member for Robertson has said. The one social trauma to which this massive increase in young homeless can be attributed is the youth unemployment rate. In my electorate where, by its nature the unemployment rate is high anyway, the youth unemployment rate is about 2 1 per cent of the total as at the end of February. At the Collingwood office there were 2,344 registered unemployed and 506 of these were juniors. Junior males and junior females were almost evenly divided at 25 1 and 255 respectively. The number of unemployed young people registered, and the number of unregistered juniors hidden in the community, represents a major social catastrophe. I feel sorry for people who laugh at those sorts of things in the House. 
I turn for one moment to an area which I think shows the mad desire of the Government. This is indicative of its attitude in relation to providing facilities for the people it represents, such as private enterprise people, pensioners, the unemployed and others. They are sacrificed at the altar of those who make profits. A serious matter that is causing concern to the Opposition relates to workers employed by the Government, by the 
Australian Postal Commission and by the Australian Telecommunications Commission. The honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier)  who is trying to interject can go back and talk to the people in the telecommunications area. There is a growing concern at the encroachment of private enterprise into what has traditionally been a government enterprise responsibility. I believe the legality of many of these encroachments ought to be challenged. The legality of many of these encroachments has never been challenged, because people in the departments have been stood over to see that they do not challenge. 
It is a further indictment of the Government that it has failed to prosecute breaches of its own laws. I shall say more about that a little later. I prefer simply to indicate that a further cause of concern among these people is that they can see their traditional service slipping into private hands. This is not a sweeping statement, particularly given developments in the telecommunications area. People who do not see the Government using its laws to prosecute or to at least test possible breaches of the Postal Services Act and the Telecommunications Act are concerned. This is yet another reflection of the Government's commitment to the sacred rights of free enterprise taking precedence over all, particularly over lucrative areas of public enterprise. 
It is common knowledge that the Postal Commission intends to increase postal charges in the next Budget. There will be increased postal charges shortly. There is no doubt about that. The Commission will argue that as it operates on a user-pays basis it must increase the charges to meet consumer price index increases. I happened to read a so-called confidential document that appeared on my desk. It lays out clearly and unequivocally what will happen. However, the Commission's estimated profitability for the year 1978-79 does not justify these increases. It estimates that its standard letter profit this year will be $8. 8m. It estimates a surplus for almost every service used by the ordinary family person. The major loss will come from registered publications, which it estimates will lose $ 1 3 . 8m. If the user-pays principle is to apply, the rates for this service ought to increase. The user ought to pay. But I do not believe that ordinary household mail users ought to subsidise those who send registered publications. Estimated losses on postal services are almost $5.5m. This would justify increases in those rates. The great danger is that the Commission will make the ordinary user meet the estimated losses. Whilst the Government continues to hand over the more lucrative areas of mail deliveries and telegram deliveries in the metropolitan area, of course the user-pays principle goes down the drain. 
Members of the National Country Party, who are conspicuous by their absence tonight, ought to be examining this question very closely. There is not one National Country Party representative in this chamber. If the user-pays principle applies and companies such as Thomas Nationwide Transport and other companies are going to deliver the mail only in the areas where they can rip off the cream, how much will the people in the outlying areas be charged for the same mail services? Where will the money for those services come from? It will not come from the senders of registered mail; it will come from ordinary consumers, such as the people sitting around this chamber tonight, who will pay more for their mail deliveries. If that is not true, I challenge the Minister for Post and Telecommunications to tell us in this House this evening, tomorrow or at some other time that postal charges will not increase. 
No, that was in regard to television licences. I am not sure whether he has been informed. If he is as well informed as some of the front bench members in this House those who have television receivers should not be lulled into a false sense of security. I believe it is more likely that the Telecom commissioners,' at much inconvenience to themselves, might induce the Government to introduce licences for people who have television sets. So far as the reference to postal charges is concerned, that challenge stands on its own two feet, and the Minister for Post and Telecommunications has a responsibility to answer the challenge. 
I turn to another area of deception and deceit by this Government. Recently the Minister for Home Affairs  (Mr Ellicott)  presented in this House a document relating to Norfolk Island. I stress that I am not challenging him for giving a professional opinion as a Queen's Counsel. Far be it from me to do that. It happened that the Minister coincidentally gave an opinion to the Norfolk Island Council about the problems associated with taxation laws applying to the Island and some constitutional difficulties involved. Of course when the opinion was given to the Council it thought the opinion was great because it reflected the Council's opinion. The Council took great heart from the opinion. On the evening the statement was delivered I cited a  Mr Foote,  an individual who was a resident of Australia with a registered company on Norfolk 
Island. He set up a triangular company arrangement between Japan, Hong Kong and Norfolk Island. By manipulation the company on Norfolk Island had a detergent called Swipe manufactured in Hong Kong and distributed by a company in Japan which was the outlet. The money was transferred back to Norfolk Island.  Mr Foote  of course dodged tax in three countriesJapan, Hong Kong and Australia. Yet government supporters want to put in gaol hapless individuals who for all sorts of reasons have not put in tax returns for three years. I am challenging the Government now to tell us what it is going to do about the individual to whom I have made reference. In a few moments I intend to put another guy in the net. 
The Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  is not in the chamber now. I challenge him to explain why, when the Commissioner of Taxation in Australia decided to investigate tax dodges on Norfolk Island, either he or the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers)  vetoed the investigation. This was done immediately prior to the statement being made by the Minister for Home Affairs. 
If you washed your ears out, you would do better. The next instance of tax evasion to which I should like to refer is in fact a scandal. Ned Kelly had the decency to wear a mask, and  Mrs Kelly  would not have allowed her children to play with these people. A family in Victoria named Bloom is involved with the Portmans company which is about to take over or has already taken over Buckleys and Nunn Ltd. The company made $1.3m profit which was channelled through Bona Vista Enterprises- something the Queensland people would know all about- to Norfolk Island. This was carried out by one  Mr Maher.  The money was then disbursed, and the income was offset against the losses. On 3 1 March 1 978 a cheque for $30m on an account with the Commercial Bank of Australia Ltd in Victoria was channelled to Norfolk Island through two trust companies, one of which was called Cascade Charitable Trust, whose beneficiaries are the New South Wales State Cancer Council and the Royal New South Wales Institute for Deaf and Blind Children. Lo and behold, the $30m was drawn out on the same day and transferred to a trust fund. Coincidentally, it had the same beneficiaries in which  Mr Bloom  had some great interest. I challenge the Treasurer to answer whether there was $30m- I am assured that there was- and, if that is the case, why this matter has not been investigated till now and why steps have not been taken to head off this unbelievable challenge. 
-I will deal with that matter. The honourable member said that the Government has taken steps to eradicate such things. The people who will be affected by this little joke - 
Somebody else read it and is quite wrapped up in it. I can assure the honourable member of that. An advertisement appeared in the  National Times  for the week ending 20 May 1978. It stated: 
Do You Pay Too Much Tax? 
The Small Business Letter is one of the few journals which regularly reports how to reduce tax. 
Every new subscriber receives a free reprint of tax articles which shows: 
I shall go through the features in a moment.  Mr Maher  must have written this or was aided and abetted by some of the people on the other side of the House who are interested. The advertisement continued: 
How to legally delay paying tax; 
Why trusts are still viable; 
How to get all the benefits from internal superannuation in the first few years; 
How to make money set aside for long service leave a current tax deduction; 
Details of a $6,000 investment which can give a $12,000 immediately provisional tax deduction; 
How to avoid death duties; 
How to reduce tax through a Hong Kong subsidiary; 
How to considerably reduce company tax; 
Ways of reducing personal tax; and 
Gives names and addresses of people who can implement such schemes. 
It is a bit of a joke, is it not? On the one hand there is this great clamour to tighten the belt provided it is only the workers and the pensioners and those on the lowest spoke of the wheel of fortune who tighten the belt. What about the arch criminals who are carrying out the sort of scheme to which I have made reference? There is not one murmur from the back bench now. I challenge the Treasurer to answer why he has not acted and investigated the Portmans situation. Why did he stop the tax investigators going to Norfolk Island? That was vetoed specifically by either the Minister for Administrative Services or the Treasurer himself. That is what the question is all about. Why does he not own up to his responsibilities? 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I move: 
That this House is of the opinion that there is a need for maintenance of public ownership and control of all broadband communication facilities, including satellite and cable systems, to ensure equitable use in the best interests of the Australian people. 
Action should be taken by the Government to prevent private enterprise moving into the lucrative markets now operated by Telecom Australia. I have indicated this time and again in speeches I have made. I believe that the Government ought to have a look at the issue. One major company is already operating what could be interpreted as an alternative telegram service. The Government ought to be using the existing regulations or, if necessary, should tighten the legislation to prevent the practice that is now emerging. Private enterprise is also moving increasingly into the Australian Postal Commission area, particularly in mail transport in the country districts. 
The announcement of a record Telecom interim profit just recently started a further scramble of companies to try to enter this lucrative area. A company operating in the telegram delivery area operates a central switchboard. Drivers circulate throughout the metropolitan areas, and I ask honourable members to mark the words 'metropolitan areas'. The drivers receive over their radios messages that are taken at the central switchboard. The drivers deliver the messages, sealed, to the recipients. At present the service is provided for business customers. It is the thin end of the wedge. The practice certainly appears to be a breach of the Postal and Telecommunications Act. I suspect lawyers could spend weeks making themselves rich arguing for and against if a test case were launched. It is necessary for the Government to reaffirm the spirit of the law. The delivery of postal and telecommunication services cannot be duplicated by private enterprise. The Government should enforce that law either through the existing Act or by amending the Act to remove any loopholes. 
It is clear that a breach of the law is taking place, whichever way the Act is interpreted, but surely the delivery of postal services should be equitable. It should be available to people in the far flung areas of Australia. The people who live in these remote areas should not be prejudiced by the more lucrative areas being serviced by companies which are willing to rip off the profits. Last night I put forward to the House information that came to me regarding what might happen in this area. The Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  readily answered a question concerning the introduction of television viewers licences yesterday. I would like him to answer a similar question. Is it anticipated that postal service charges for letter delivery will be increased by the Government in the near future? 
That this House is of the opinion that there is a need for maintenance of public ownership and control of all broadband communication facilities, including satellite and cable systems, to ensure equitable use in the best interests of the Australian people. 
The honourable member has not in fact addressed himself to this matter but has raised matters which relate to a different motion to be raised on another day. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 31 May 1978: 
Has his attention been drawn to allegations of tax avoidance schemes involving trust funds on Norfolk Island which have been made in newspaper articles and in the House, and in particular, to the claim that a sum of $30 million was sent by cheque from the CBA Bank at Bourke Street, Melbourne on 30 March 1978, to a trust account on Norfolk Island and returned from the island on the same day for the purpose of tax avoidance. 
If so, has he investigated the particular transaction referred to in part ( 1 ) and will he inform the House of the details. 
3 ) If he has not had the matter investigated will he do so and report to the House. 
Was the initiative of the Taxation Commissioner to send a team of tax investigators to Norfolk Island vetoed; if so, why and by which Minister. 

 -Mr Speaker, I claim to have been misrepresented. 
Yesterday it was suggested by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner),  as Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, in answer to a question from the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier),  that my office facilities may have been used improperly. I am the sponsor and convenor of the Medibank Action Coalition, which includes people such as Councillor Healy, social workers from Collingwood and Fitzroy and my electorate secretary, Glenys Stradijot. The honourable member and the Minister should have been aware, or could easily have checked, that Councillor Healy is my research assistant employed full time in my office. As such I authorised Councillor Healy to contact local government bodies. I also authorised the correspondence. T ask the Minister and the honourable member for Bendigo to withdraw their reflections on me pursuant to Standing Order 76. 
All imputations of improper motives and all personal reflections on Members shall be considered highly disorderly. 
At the time the question was asked I did ask for it to be withdrawn. It was a question seeking information. The honourable gentleman has now given an explanation. I do not propose to pursue the matter under Standing Order 76. There is an allegation and a refutation, and the facts can be judged by the House. 
-We have heard for the first time in the whole dispute the individual who ought to have carried most of the responsibility; that is the Minister at the table, the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley).  He has not done so. He is the phantom of the opera. All we have heard from the very beginning of this dispute is the angry ant and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  blasting the union at every course. One would think that this dispute started in the last two or three months. Anybody who has followed the developments in the field of technological change, whether in the telecommunications industry or any other industry, would readily know that the development of techniques in the postal and telecommunications area has been going on since 1970. There have been dramatic changes. The organisations which represent the unionists in this industry have, in fact, complied with many requests and joined in objective negotiations in order to facilitate the introduction and development of new techniques and to adapt themselves to handling the new equipment. 
Further to that, these organisations have never rejected new technology. On the contrary, they have met in consultation. They have developed training programs to meet the requirements of changing technology. At the end of the trail their reward will be redundancy. Their jobs either will simply disappear - 
The honourable member is not capable of listening. He is too thick in the head. If he listens he might understand clearly what the dispute is all about. These people will lose their jobs either because the jobs will disappear or, alternatively, because of the introduction of a sophisticated type of equipment that threatens the civil liberties of people in this country. Individuals who condemn the union do not understand clearly the ramifications of this equipment in the hands of certain people. 
Let us hark back to the reasons for the mad desire to introduce this equipment. I repeat that Telecom organisations have co-operated. This has been readily accepted by the Telecom commissioners, who have agreed with me in consultations I have had with them. The pressure started in 1 976 when the Government of the day, the present Government, forced Telecom out on to the open market to obtain loans to capitalise the industry. That being the case, the end result is that the industry must become more capitalintensive. In that process, this equipment is being rushed into service. In effect it has not been, as it ought to be, submitted to the scrutiny of public debate. It should not simply be a matter of Telecom's determining, with the assistance and the endorsement of the Government, that it will introduce equipment which has such wide ramifications. Telecom made that decision itself. 
What goes to the very heart of this dispute is not all this poppycock that the Prime Minister and the Minister for Post and Telecommunications have been going on about. It is people struggling for survival. Instead of the Minister and the Prime Minister proceeding to describe everything that the union has done as bad, and everything that Telecom has done as good, they ought to have a look inward, at themselves. Right from the commencement of the latter part of the dispute,  Mr Justice  Gaudron and Commissioner Clarkson have taken the Government to task for standing over, for deliberately goading, the telecommunications commissioners into action that has been inflammatory and has driven these individuals, concerned as they are about their employment, into taking the action that they have. A conciliatory attitude was never taken by the Government. The co-ordinating committee has been at the back of every move that has been made. Commissioner Clarkson indicated this. Is the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, who has just re-entered the House, calling him a liar? If that is what he believes, why does he not say so? The Minister has a responsibility too. I wonder whether he has read the Act itself? He has a responsibility if he is going to direct the commissioners to do certain things. 
Of course not: The Minister has directed them through the co-ordinating committee. He did not have the courage to come out and do so himself. He has uttered not one word throughout this dispute. He has stood there like little  Sir Echo  and minded his own business. Now the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  stands up here and blasphemes the organisations, gets stuck into the unions, and pushes them into the position in which they find themselves today. Despite the facade put up by the Prime Minister in stating the reasons for this dispute what the unions are arguing about is the need for development upwards from the lower grades, by being given the opportunity to obtain the necessary training, and to progress through the structure in the Department itself. That is primarily the reason why this series of negotiations went before the Commissioner. He urged Telecom to negotiate around those questions. There is also the fact that the changes in classification, to Telecom technician and Telecom technical officer, eliminated the possibility of anyone who was a tradesman proceeding past that point. 
It is not a question of its being arbitrated. In the early stages these matters were referred to the parties by Commissioner Clarkson, but they have never got off the ground. Telecom demanded that the threshhold question be that within the structure itself limitations should be placed on these individuals who had served their entire working life in the organisation. 
-So far as the structure is concerned, it is a threshhold question that the organisation should be assured that people will move through the structure. That threshhold question has never been answered, yet the Minister talks about arbitration. The basic dispute is the concern for the thousands of jobs of which I have made mention- the skills of the people concerned and their future. It is not only their jobs that they are concerned about. They will be deskilled. They will be placed in a situation in which 90 per cent of the positions, in that area of Telecom operations, will disappear. 
It is all right for the telecommunications commissioners to say: 'But nobody is going to get the sack; nobody is going to be put off. You can eke your working life out dusting the resistors or the relays'. At the end of the track 90 per cent of those jobs will have disappeared. In fact, at present it takes about 1.3 man hours per line per year to maintain the telephone service. On completion of the first stage that requirement will be reduced to 0.6 man hours. By the end of stage two, the figure will be 0.1 man hours. That is a devastating reduction. Those figures are most disturbing to the work force. It is not just a question of putting their whole faith in arbitration. It goes a lot further than that. The Government, the organised industrial movement and the Minister are the people involved in ensuring that jobs are available. The figure quoted by the Minister for Sports and Recreation in Victoria,  Mr Brian  Dixon, supported by figures that I have quoted over the last two years in this Parliament, show that by the end of 1 984 in the vicinity of 2 million jobs will have to be found. That is a horrifying concept for young people coming out of schools, or tradesmen who have trained themselves to a peak within the electronic industry or in a similar calling- to find that they may never be given an opportunity to work. And that is just the beginning of it. If we extend our examination to the proposed satellite system we see that the whole job outlook for the future becomes devastating. One has only to consider the future of data processing, what might happen in communications and the broadcasting system in general, and the way in which computerised data can be transmitted by satellite. That involves getting rid of people, in their thousands, in the clerical arena. I have in mind such things as employment in banks. This whole question goes to the point of job protection. Whichever way the Government twists and turns, all the penal clauses in the world, all the back-of-the-axe philosophy by the Government, will not resolve this dispute. 
The general secretary of the organisation, to his credit, said: 'If you gaol all the union officials in the ATEA, that is too bad. You might get away with it for a few of the individuals, but you are not going to hide yourself away from the principles involved in this dispute'. There are two sides to every dispute, but right from the outset we have had the silence of the Minister and the impetuosity of the Government in forcing penal legislation on to Telecom itself, calling on it to introduce a bans clause, which was rejected by  Mr Justice  Gaudron, who described it as inflammatory. 
The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations could not care less whether 100,000, 200,000 or half a million people are unemployed. Just the single exercise of trying to disguise the level of the Budget in 1976 forced Telecom, in the first instance, to do this. Publications that have been circulated by that organisation spell out the various areas under investigation. If the Government were doing the right thing it would be taking the initiative with the industrial centres of authority in this country, through the Commission, with the ATEA and other interested organisations, to sit down and see what will be the ramifications of the introduction of computerisation. But it is not interested in that; it is interested in destroying the power of the organisation that stands in its way and refuses to do its bidding in the telecommunications industry. That is what it is all about and it does not start in the telecommunications industry. 
To my way of thinking this is the most important industrial dispute we have had in this country for decades. More power to the arm of union members if they are going to defend their jobs. The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, who is sitting at the table, was born with a silver spoon in his mouth. He will never be in trouble financially; nor will the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. But their deathly silence - 
The honourable member ought to be without a job. He made the grade only by default. This dispute is really about job availability. The unions have been more than tolerant. Since 1970 they have gone to great lengths to try to work out a formula. They are not modern day Luddites. They welcome the introduction of technology. But they object to the fact that instead of the tradesmen who over a period have been trained for the purpose of repairing and maintaining these areas there will be one individual at a point in a central area who will go along and change a card, brush a relay or do some such menial task to put the equipment back into operation. What has been introduced so far as the organisation is concerned? Any backoftheaxe philosophy would achieve the same result. We will not stand by and allow the Government to get away with this hypocrisy. It forced Telecom into a situation and is now going to use Telecom as a political weapon against the workers in the trade union movement. 
-The matter I would like to raise this evening relates to the national communications satellite system. I raise this matter because in Opposition we have learned to expect inquiries that are initiated by the Government to go on and on. Such an inquiry is generally initiated by an individual who has a vested interest in the matter. A committee or task force is generally set up for the purpose of achieving a particular objective or making a particular decision. When the report on the inquiry is prepared it is sometimes used by the Government, after consultation with people in the industry concerned, to predetermine what will happen as a result of the presentation of the report. That was the case with the Green report on broadcasting. I think that the task force that was set up on 22 September of last year by the then Minister for Post and Telecommunications, who is presently the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson)  - 
Yes, he is a Liberal Minister. He set up a task force to inquire into broadcasting. I feel that the same fate awaits the report of the task force that was set up at the behest of  Mr K.  Packer, the Managing Director of Television Corporation Ltd and the owner of TCN9-GTV9 television network. The task force was set up to advise the Government as to whether a national communications satellite system was a viable proposition and how such a system could be controlled if it were introduced and what would be the area of its operation as well as who should control the satellite. In effect, it involved not only whether the system should be introduced but also whether the Australian Telecommunications Commission should be the lone carrier or whether the submission made by Packer should be supported by the Government, as they are traditionally, to ensure that as much as possible is handed over to private enterprise. 
Mike the Mouth keeps nattering away. The honourable member for Denison has a penchant for opening his mouth and letting the wind blow his tongue about. It has got him in trouble with the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  If the honourable member wants to know anything about the satellite system he should settle down and listen. The report of this inquiry is in the hands of the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley).  The complaint I raise is that it is going to be there for another four weeks. The task force was to have reported in May of this year. It was set up in haste. It was duchessed all over America by the RCA organisation, which initiated the first submission, through Packer, for the setting up of the system so that Packer could then become the lone operator or controller of that system. 
This evening we had a great debate about telecommunications technicians. This satellite system should not be introduced without a general debate on the implications of it- not the profit motive exclusively, but also the social implications of unemployment and the incursion into civil liberties by individuals who, in the event of the introduction of the new Telecom system plus the satellite, will be able to sit in a room in 
Australia and listen to any telephone conversation in this country. It seems to me that other judgments and values have to be applied in the event of the introduction of systems such as that. It is not good enough for the Minister to sit on the report for four weeks. It should be presented to this House for debate. It should not be used solely for the purpose of enabling the Government to present legislation to support the people who control it. I refer to the Murdocks and the other people who control the Government. That is not good enough. That report should be the subject of discussion and debate in this Parliament. Honourable members on both sides of the House should be ensuring that that situation prevails in the final analysis. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! It being 1 1 p.m., the debate is interrupted, the House stands adjourned until Tuesday, 12 September next, at 2.15 p.m., unless  Mr Speaker  shall by telegram or letter addressed to each member of the House fix an alternative day or hour of meeting. 
-The honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Roger Johnston)  who has just spoken and those honourable members from the Government side who preceded him, particularly the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  highlighted the difference in philosophy between the Government and the Opposition. The speeches of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  and the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis),  who is the shadow Treasurer, have put to rest the arguments of the Government in this deceitful Budget. All the election promises referred to by my colleagues in this Budget debate have torn asunder the hypocrisy with which the Government fought the last election campaign. I will not spend a great deal of time pursuing each of the issues dealt with by the honourable member for Gellibrand and the Leader of the Opposition. 
The real summation of this Budget has been recorded outside this House. Despite what the Prime Minister says, the workers, the unionists and the unemployed of this country are protesting in the streets, and will continue to do so. While they are protesting the share prices on national and international stock markets are rocketing. This is indicative of the treatment that business has received at the hands of this Government. That is what this Budget is all about. It is the most blatantly pro-business Budget in my memory and certainly the most insensitive. The poorest, the neediest, the most deprived sections of this community have been the hardest hit. Perhaps the most cynical move, although there are several outstanding contenders for this award, was that at a time of record unemployment and in a Budget deliberately designed to increase unemployment- the Treasurer admitted that at Question Time this afternoon- the only Public Service staff ceiling increase was in the Department of Social Security. More inspectors are needed to seek out the so-called 'dole bludgers '. 
The Budget's other major contribution to the existing unemployed was to freeze the unemployment benefit at its miserable inadequate level and to offer not one job creation scheme. The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  has come into this House time and again and talked all the rubbish about the place in respect of teaching young people under the Community Youth Support scheme, which is referred to as CYSS. He says that schemes such as this one are doing something for the young unemployed. What these schemes are doing is to train more adequately people for jobs that are not there. The Government has continued to offer a few training schemes, primarily aimed at the youth, as its contribution to the major crisis facing our people and our economic and social structure. However, the Government differentiates between two levels of the youth. It offers employers a subsidy to employ a certain section of the youth. However, people in the age bracket of 18 years to 21 years or 22 years are not being employed by employers because it is more economic to employ younger people who are being subsidised and then to put them off after six months and put on someone else. Providing a few funds for amateurs to train inadequately a handful of unemployed youth to be slightly more adequately equipped unemployed is just simply no answer. A cursory calculation of these schemes in my electorate of Melbourne indicates they are reaching 0.7 per cent of the youth unemployed and that only 0. 1 per cent of youth unemployed are finding jobs after attending these schemes. 
One only has to go to the courts in Melbourne on any day to see the effect that unemployment is having on our youth. I attended the court to give some evidence on behalf of an Aboriginal lad who had been unemployed. This lad was so frustrated and so embarrassed about bludging off his pensioner mother that he resorted to getting the money for himself. In doing so he bought a oneway ticket to the penitentiary.  His  fate is the fate of a number of other young people in my electorate. I have referred before to young girls who have to sell themselves on the streets of Melbourne in order to get enough money to put a  roof over their heads. The blame for this rests on the head of the Prime Minister and every individual who sits on the Government side of the House. 
Because of the difficulty in gathering absolutely accurate figures I would not like to be held to the absolute accuracy of the calculations made in respect of employment training schemes. However, the difference would be marginal. Even if the calculations are out by a full percentage point their impact is devastating and is a sad indictment of this Government's sole contribution to the unemployed. 
I would like to concentrate for a few minutes on another group of unemployed and potential unemployed who rated little more than an indirect mention in the statements attached to the Budget Speech, and not one word in the Budget itself Despite the Government's failure to recognise them in the Budget, the Telecom technicians recently in conflict with the Australian Telecommunications Commission are involved in the most important industrial dispute in Australian history. AH we have heard from the Government is a lot of mumbo-jumbo. The Prime Minister has paid lip service to this matter. The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations came into the House on the Thursday of the last sitting week and said that the Telecom technicians would not win. He said that they could not win, despite the fact that they had an answerable case that showed that they were engaged in a life and death struggle for their future employment. He said that they would be battered into submission. Like all the prophecies made by the Government this one went down the drain. The dispute was all over bar the shouting after reasonable men got together on the Sunday and talked out their problems. The only way in which industrial disputes will be resolved is when the issues are thoughtfully analysed. All that the Government could do about that dispute was to pour oil on troubled waters. However, it turned out to be petrol which ignited and inflamed the situation to such an extent that  Deputy President  Justice Gaudron and Commissioner Clarkson took the Government to task because of its attitude. 
What is required in these matters? The Government should not come in with a big axe when there is a dispute in which people are struggling to preserve the future of their jobs. The  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions has called for a national meeting of all parties concerned- the employers, the unions and the Government, for what it is worth- for the purpose of setting guidelines. We do not want a bureaucratic hassle between the leaders of the few departments involved in a interdepartmental inquiry because the relevant information to which I will refer in a few moments would not be available to such an inquiry. The Government has decided to do away with certain statistics that were being gathered by the Australian Bureau of Statistics. This information would have provided the base for a proper and intelligent analysis of the situation. All the Government has done has been to set up a interdepartmental inquiry. I asked the Minister for Home Affairs and Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Ellicott),  when he was sitting at the table, for permission to incorporate in  Hansard  an article by Julianne Schultz entitled 'Dearth of statistics hampers technological changes survey' which appeared in the  Australian Financial Review  of 6 September 1978. The article sets out clearly just where the dearth of information lies. The article states: 
The 1971 census was the first time since 1947 that work force information was collected, and although further information was sought in the 1 976 census, this information is unlikely to be processed and released until some time next year, three years later. 
Yet we are referring the question of technological change to some interdepartmental inquiry. What will this inquiry do? The members of the inquiry will sit down, drink cups of tea and exchange pleasantries over a period and come up with precisely nothing. That is not the only area in which statistics have been buried or discontinued. The foreign ownership and control of Australian industry series has been terminated by the Australian Bureau of Statistics. The job vacancy surveys by the Austraiian Bureau of Statistics have been terminated. The only job vacancy statistics available from the Government are in the Commonwealth Employment Service series on registered vacancies which the Government itself concedes is inadequate for many purposes. If we refer to the Senate  Hansard  of 22 August 1978, at pages 227 and 228, to the question asked and the answer given by two knowledgeable senators,  Senator Missen  and  Senator Carrick,  it will be revealed that that is a fact of life. 
We are now having to pay for the Government's idiotic decision- this was referred to in the article by Julianne Schultz- not to proceed, for economic reasons, with the processing of work force information from the 1976 census. There is no greater economic reason than that the people who are unemployed are looking to the Government for a lead as to what will happen in the future. The youth of this country who are coming out of school are looking to their futures and to where they will be situated in the jumble for jobs that are not there. Even though the census cost millions of dollars to conduct, the Government's failure to process the statistics means that the census is rapidly acquiring the status of being of historical interest only and of no practical use. The Government's money has simply gone down the drain. This Government is behaving like the rulers of any banana republic. It is parading the information which shows it up in a good light and it is burying the rest. This continues day after day. We have heard the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  kidding himself. He says that there is a light at the end of the tunnel. That is beautiful but the unemployed, who find themselves in dire straits because of the Government's policy, cannot eat a light at the end of a tunnel. 
I should like to refer briefly to some of the specific matters involved in the Telecom dispute. Despite the Government's failure to recognise it in the Budget, the Telecom technicians recently indicated quite clearly in conflict with the Australian Telecommunications Commission- I pointed this out earlier- that they were involved in the most important industrial dispute of this decade. They have probably set the pattern for people in the future. They represent hundreds of thousands of workers whose jobs and futures are in jeopardy through computerisation and technological development. Another stage is being developed. I am referring to the satellite communication system.  Mr Kerry  Packer put pressure on the Government and what did the Government do? It jumped to attention and set up a task force to collect all the phoney information about the place. It was only because of the pressure brought to bear by the Opposition that the Government extended the life of that task force to enable it to carry out inquiries. That report, as I said the other evening, is in the hands of the Minister. God knows when it will hit the light of day, if it does hit the light of day. Will it suffer the same fate as the Green report? Will the workers, in consultation with their employersthe masters who dominate them- come out and set in train the policies that will flow from a satellite being controlled by private enterprise in this country? One transponder in a satellite can communicate in a matter of seconds some 64 million pieces of data. That is what one transponder can reflect. What about the jobs of individuals who are involved in the data processing? 
This is not a figment of my imagination. It is absolute fact. It ill behoves the Government to try to bury such a report. The only way in which we can really come to grips with the problems associated with involvement in technological change is to set up such an inquiry. We should not set up such an inquiry in such a way that only departmental chiefs are involved. I do not know whether such people would be capable in this field. I am not reflecting on their capacities as individuals but if they do not have the wherewithal they will not be able to produce the necessary result. It has to be a government inquiry. People should be able to work on it full time, for 12 months if necessary, to accumulate the statistical information that will guide this Parliament and other organisations when making decisions so that such decisions are in the best interests of the work force in the future. 
I should like to refer to another aspect of the Telecom dispute which, once again, reflects on the policies of the Government. I am sorry that the Minister for Home Affairs has left the table but perhaps I will have a chance on Thursday to deal with that particular subject. One issue I should like to raise is that the Budget made no mention of the fact that two years ago Telecom was allowed $2 15m as an interest bearing advance from the Budget. This in itself was a decline on advances of previous years. The point I am making is that Telecom was forced out into the open market, as were a number of other government instrumentalities. One such instrumentality in the Australian Capital Territory was placed in this position. The end result of that, of course, is that the interest has to be repaid. The industry has to become more capital intensive. Telecom's processes and its plans for the future had to take a dramatic turn. I put it to the House that the future of technology has to be examined in an intelligent way. The statistics relevant to each of the areas to which I have made reference have to be examined. Unfortunately, my time has expired. A Budget of deception and deceit has been revealed and the answers rest in our hands. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Falconer)  adjourned. 
I crave the indulgence of the House. I sought leave to have an article by Julianne Schultz incorporated in  Hansard  but the question was not put to the House. I referred the matter to the Minister. I now ask for leave to incorporate in  Hansard  the article to which I have referred. 
Leave granted. 
-I doubt that I have ever seen so short a Bill with such momentous consequences put before this House. It is doubtful that a Bill with such dangerous potential has ever received such a blase approach as that of the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Ellicott),  who delivered his second reading speech in 22 1 words. Most of the speech was a rehash of the wording of the Bill and it made no attempt to convey to the House the reasons behind this important and far-reaching change to the financial undertakings of the Australian Capital Territory Electricity Authority. Put simply, the Bill means that the Government is opting out of its responsiblity to supply loan funds to the Authority and is forcing the Authority onto the open loan market, with a government guarantee for repayment of the open market loans. For those reasons, the Opposition opposes the Bill. 
We do oppose it. The Government has a responsiblity, and I will explain precisely why the Opposition opposes the Bill. The Minister for the Capital Territory laughs and says: 'Come on! '. He thinks we are doing this just as an exercise, but that is not so. This is another fiddle - 
-That is all right. You might not have the power to borrow, but the Budget fiddle is involved in this philosophy. The Minister is laughing his head off. He went to the Government asking it to retain its responsibility to provide certain funds to the Authority to make up the difference between borrowings and the Authority's capacity within the tariff area. He asked for 10 per cent, but that was not on. He was told by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  that nothing was on and that any funding the Authority gained was going to be through its own resources. The Authority was going to get nothing from the Federal Government, and that raises a number of points that I would like to make in relation to the whole question of the Australian Capital Territory. 
The second reading speech might have been expected to spell out the reasons for the policy change in this area because for a period of time the Federal Government did provide certain funds out of Consolidated Revenue. It is the Opposition's view that the Minister had a responsibility in his second reading speech to go further than 221 words of regurgitation which told us nothing. We thought he would have explained why the Government was abandoning its responsibility to supply these funds at comparatively low interest rates, based on the overseas loan market to which the Government has access. Alas, we are left to surmise, and our surmising leads us to suspect that the move is another in the Government's restrictive economic policies aimed at reducing the Federal deficit. It is literally that because it is just a fiddle of what was provided in the first instance. The Government is forcing bodies such as the Electricity Authority to go to the loan raising area and pay interest rates which will eventually find their way to the people in the form of increased tariffs over a period of time. 
The Australian Telecommunications Commission was placed in precisely the same position, and what did that lead to? The capitalising of its operations led to a situation where Telecom had to go to the open market. Over a period covered by at least two Budgets it found itself in a situation where it had to compete in the international fund raising area. The Government ensured that two things would happen. First of all, Telecom will never again have any connection with the internal structure of the Government's Budget. It was thrown on its own resources as an individual commission raising its own funds. The result was that Telecom was placed clearly in a position where it had to become capital intensive, and capital intensive it became. It raised funds and had to pay interest rates. Arising from that, computerisation became an issue surrounding the recent Telecom dispute, not specifically because of that decision but arising from it, and the Telecom commissioners took the action that they did. 
The Australian Capital Territory Electricity Authority is being placed in precisely the same position. The Minister at the table sits there blithely saying: 'What a stupid thing to raise.' Yet he has placed the people of the Australian Capital Territory, and particularly the people directly involved in Canberra, in a situation involving self-management and financial responsibility, and the price they pay for selfmanagement is directly involved. This is just another fiddle in the Budget. The honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem)  sits in his seat with a self-satisfied smile like Robinson McHugh, who used to poison people. The honourable member should add up for the people of Canberra and tell them what selfgovernment will cost. 
No, I support it very strongly, but the honourable member is against it. Nobody would go to the point of supporting a referendum on the basis of the document which was distributed during October last year. Nobody could support self-government on that basis because one would have to be a Philadelphia lawyer to work out what the document literally means about self-government. I challenge the honourable member for Canberra and the Minister for the Capital Terrtory, who is discussing something with one of his advisers, looking very learned, to ask the people why they are suspicious about the self-government proposal. They are suspicious. A referendum will never be carried. I think the honourable member for Canberra will support me in that suggestion. It is such a vague concept and the people of Canberra are apprehensive about the cost of selfgovernment. The cost of self-government has to be clarified to the point where it is not an issue. 
Self-government must be the right of every individual Australian. It cannot be left to a referendum. But it is not a right if we superimpose the matter of cost. The cost will not be clearly set out in the way in which it was set out by the previous Minister for the Capital Territory. The cost has to be set out clearly and unequivocally. The matter of the Australian Capital Territory Electricity Authority is another issue. The costs involved in self-government for the Australian Capital Territory self-government are relevant to this legislation. The Minister, who is still consulting his adviser, in 221 words disposed of his responsibility in this matter. 
So here we have a very serious problem. When we talk about self-government for the Australian Capital Territory we are talking about Canberra as the company town. The Government ought to ensure that the people of Canberra do not undertake that financial responsibility and buy a pig in a poke? It is a shame and a sham to put a referendum about self-government to the people of Canberra if the Government will not spell out clearly and unequivocally how it will overcome this issue of cost. The cost will multiply because of the legislation which is before the House tonight. This is a clear example of what the Government is all about. The Bill superimposes on Canberra the cost of supplying electricity to this institution and to all the institutions for which the Minister has responsibility. 
That is what we expect from the Minister. He has a sanctimonious view about institutions. He says that he would put me in one. I would have thought that we would both be in an institution together. If we were both in an institution arguing the issue of self-government in relation to financial responsibility I know who would come out clean. It would be I and not the Minister. I am sorry that the Minister's sanctimonious approach has reached that level and that he has made that observation. But I return to the issue involved. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 14 March 1978: 
Will the open planning principles referred to in  Telecom 2000  be adopted before Telecom's future technological changes which will involve massive restructuring of careers. 
Is the Common User Data Network purchased in 1969 reduced to a single customer service about to be dismantled except in Melbourne; if so, have technical and supply problems been responsible for its non-acceptance by the public. 
Did customers and staff become so exasperated with years of destructive and delaying automated mail handling in Sydney that decentralised handling is now being adopted. 
Is ARE II technology being planned with little provision for taking advantage of prior world experience on ironing out technical problems. 
Of the 100,000 lines in the world, are 12,000 located in relatively quiet exchanges in Australia. 
Has Telecom any experience of the contemplated highly centralised Exchange Maintenance Centre. 
7 ) Was the introduction of the cross-bar switching system an investment similar in size to that planned for ARE II in terms of changing money values and subscriber numbers. 
8 ) What was the actual capital and retraining cost. 
Is existing cross-bar equipment economically serviceable for 20 years on average; if not, why not. 
What evaluation studies have been made of modification of cross-bar equipment to provide the facilities most in demand and most desired by Telecom users. 
What have these studies cost (a) before and (b) since the decision to consider ARE II as an alternative. 
What were the (a) projected, (b) actual and (c) estimated savings in introducing the cross-bar system during the latest period for which figures are available. 
Did Telecom inform the Australian Telecommunications Employees Association (ATEA) two years ago, that field trials were being undertaken to test the many aspects of SPC and ARE II conversion. 
Was the decision to convert 73 per cent of the Telecom network by 1982 made (a) 3 months before the first field trial started and (b) 12 months before the second trial. 
Was information on these trials given reluctantly to ATEA; if so, after what interval of time. 
Has Telecom produced evidence to the ATEA to support their estimate that (a) there will be 600 less technical positions in telephone exchanges by 1983 and (b) many exchanges will become unstaffed. 
Do man-hours per station figures of ARE II, S x S and SPC systems, including Exchange Maintenance Area (EMA) conversions, indicate that 1300 or more jobs will be made redundant. 
Will SPC local (AXE) equipment further reduce man-hours with only one maintenance officer to almost 20,000 lines. 
Will around 1800 positions for S x S/Hybrid exchange maintenance be all discontinued after AXE introduction in the 1980's. 
Will installation of ARE II need 1 5 to 20 per cent less man-hours than cross-bar, and AXE 80 per cent less. 
Will engineering and administrative personnel and support staff be reduced; if so, by how many and on what experience are the reductions estimated. 
Does Telecom estimate savings of up to $120m in salaries for operators alone by 1986. 
What is the estimated growth or decline in (a) job vacancies, (b) revenues and (c) services if cross-bar equipment (i) continues in use for 2 years longer than planned, (ii) is phased out over 4 years to the extent now planned for the next 2 years or (iii) is phased out as now planned. 
Will the basis of calculations used for replies to the above questions be disclosed to and discussed with the ATEA. 
Does Telecom accept the ATEA estimate of a current annual staff growth of 2.8 per cent. 
I ask a question of the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. He would be aware that for some considerable time negotiations have been taking place and complaints have been made about the conditions under which the staff have to work and the facilities that are available at the Canberra City post office. As this situation is likely to lead to an industrial dispute over the conditions of the people who work there, will he inform the House of the developments regarding the new post office building in Canberra City? 
I am prompted to raise a matter in this debate because the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr N. A. Brown)  last night made an attack on me and on a senator in another place regarding the use of envelopes and franking machines in our office. The honourable member for Diamond Valley is an individual who has more to worry about, I suggest, than  Senator Evans  or me. As I indicated in a personal explanation to the House, the honourable member raised a matter in respect of a letter distributed under the name of Councillor Healy, who is an employee of mine, a research officer. The letter is in respect of the Medibank Action Coalition of which I was the convener. The letter was distributed from my office. It was suggested to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner),  who is now sitting across the table from me, that an investigation ought to be carried out. I have in my possession a circular from  Senator Lewis  in support of the Liberal Party in Victoria which was distributed for a by-election in thousands of envelopes in the same circumstances. I welcome any investigation in respect to  Senator Evans  or me but I put it to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs that such an investigation should also consider the matter I raise. I have a photostat copy of a letter sent by  Senator Lewis  covering the issues in respect of the Hamer Government and supporting the candidature of a Liberal Party candidate. Copies were sent in thousands of envelopes throughout the length and breadth of that electorate in Victoria. I refer to a document which sets out the postage facilities available for senators and members in relation to parliamentary or electoral business but not for party business. It states:  8.4 A senator or member shall be provided with a franking machine in his electorate . . . 
The point I am making is that if Neil the cat is going to run around accusing people of what he regards as some terrible sin, and he says this more in sorrow than in anger - 
My question, which is directed to the Prime Minister, relates to the statement in his address to the nation on Sunday that the inflation rate is down and is falling. Was the annual rate of growth in the consumer price index in the September quarter, namely 7.9 per cent, the same as in the June quarter? Did the price index of home produced materials used in manufacturing industry increase by a staggering 21.1 per cent in the year to August, partly as a result of the crude oil levy? Is it possible that this crude oil levy, which affects prices in isolated centres throughout Australia- in particular, cities like Canberra which are heavily reliant on road transport- and other increases in indirect taxes and charges will result in either continued stagnation or a more rapid growth in the rate of inflation? 
I rise in this debate to raise a matter that was so hypocritically put to the Parliament this morning by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  He talked about civil liberties. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The level of conversation in the chamber is too high. I ask honourable members to remain silent. The honourable member for La Trobe will remain silent. 
He referred to the proposition passed at the weekend at the Victorian Australian Labor conference. He put this in a perspective that was completely erroneous. In fact, the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  straightened it out when he said that the resolution condemned the onslaught against human rights by any authoritarian or totalitarian government, whether based on the ideology of the Left or the Right. One of the individuals whom the Prime Minister named,  Mr Hartley,  in fact opposed the proposition but it was carried in the terms quoted. 
The real issue here is the hypocrisy that is evident in the attitude of the Prime Minister. He talks about civil liberties. What were the civil liberties involved in the expulsion, by kangaroo court mentods, of Jennings and Francis in Victoria. 
Honourable members do not need to rely on the view of the Labor Party only. I refer to the  Canberra Times  of 2 August. It says, amongst a number of things: 

 Mr Doug Jennings, member for Westernport of the Legislative Assembly in Victoria, made the mistake of putting loyalty to the people of Victoria before loyalty to an erring Liberal Party. What the world has been deploring in the Soviet Union is happening in Australia: The Soviet Communist Party is putting in gaol people who have the honesty and courage to publicly criticise the party line. It seems that the Liberal Party of Victoria is now joining that distinguished company by disowning its own- 
So called: traditional beliefs . . . 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! 
Let us have a look to the lead-up to this particular- 
You are a gabber and an idiot. About all we get out of you is idiotic interjecting. 
I think that what has been said by the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Yates)  can be disposed of as a heap of rubbish. Certainly one would have to be ah imbecile to believe what is spelled out in the second reading speech. The whole question here is that the legislation is designed to prohibit persons from engaging in certain conduct for the purpose and having the effect of preventing or substantially hindering overseas and interstate trade or commerce, and it refers specifically to the unions concerned. The issue here is that over a period of time the laws relating to industrial relations under the Conciliation and Arbitration. Act contained a process that allowed the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission within its constitutional authority to resolve disputes of an interstate character. That was its role; that is what it was supposed to do. However, this Government has endeavoured to get the Commission to do its dirty work, to be another arm of government, to be a controller or a regulator of the economy, and to take out the big stick where necessary to keep the unions submissive. 
The penalties in the Conciliation and Arbitration Act were put to rest during the 1960s when the trade union movement indicated clearly and unequivocally that they were not going to work any longer. Those penalties having failed, and the Government having failed in getting the Commission to act in that way, it moved in another direction to bring into the common law field the penalties imposed on unionists for action taken by their membership in legitimate disputes. It moved into another field for the purpose of bleeding the unions white and once again keeping them submissive. The Government had failed to do that by invoking penalties under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. 
The Government is hell bent on providing the modus operandi for the introduction of penalties outside the Act to which I have referred, and it will fail again. In all the industrial disputes that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has dashed into over the last twelve or eighteen months, including the Telecom dispute and a range of others, he has finished up looking like a perfect ass. The disputes have been resolved in the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, and so will every other industrial dispute. The Transport Workers Union dispute had its genesis in other States. It is not the first time that such a dispute has occurred. It is not a coincidence that 
Lang Hancock has a couple of henchmen and phoneys in Western Australia who initiated similar action a few months ago. It is not a coincidence that the son of this fellow Gorman admitted during the petrol dispute that his father had financial backing for his action. 
This Government is prepared to use bludgers, pimps, scabs, anybody it can get its hands on, to do its dirty work and to set up the unions on that basis. I might add that the Government does not even practise the courtesy of going through the procedures by serving the unions in a proper way. For instance, the Federal office of the Transport Workers Union has not to this day received a summons over the Gorman case. Yet the Government has justified its support for Gorman on the basis of the law. As to law and order, we have heard the Prime Minister time and time again talk about law and order. So far as the law and order involved in the use of section 45D or any other section are concerned, it is not going to work. It will bring about a confrontation with the Prime Minister and the fascist types that we have on the back bench, and some on the front bench. How the Government uses that legislation is not going to work. The Conciliation and Arbitration Commission would love to handle a dispute where it has just handed out a $250,000 fine to a unionist or a union! The dispute would never be resolved, and I hope such disputes never will be resolved. The trade union movement has an obligation to its membership and to the movement generally to stand up and fight it out, and that it will do. 
The Gorman dispute falls into the same category as the one promoted by Lang Hancock. This legislation is only a follow-up to legislation that the Government has not been able to use since it gaoled O'Shea. That was the finish of it. If a trade union official was gaoled in this country again the confrontation would be on. We would see whether every unionist in the country would support the Government. Under these procedures the Government is heading to disaster. People in this country who know anything at all about industrial relations would shy away from it. It has been rightly said that it is not the large corporations who want to use this legislation. They think it is a joke because they know that ultimately the only place for settlement of disputation in an industrial sense is the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. Once the Commission is sidestepped, the Government is courting disaster. 
One other matter I would like to mention in relation to the Transport Workers Union is that it is vulnerable. The dispute had got to the point where it could see the light at the end of the tunnel in relation to settlement. Discussions were to take place in the Commission in the afternoon and a settlement was in sight. The next morning the union received another notification under section 45d from a messenger service in Melbourne. In my view, that messenger service breached the postal Act by delivering mail. The Government has not rushed to the defence of what is regarded as an exclusive carrier in this field. No action has been taken against the messenger service, but the Government will support a secondary boycott. The honourable member for Holt can shrug. I will explain this to him if he does not understand. The postal Act debars individuals from handling certain types of communications, if the honourable member can understand that. This particular crowd and others are engaging in that practice. In effect, they have served summonses on the Transport Workers Union. Having got through the Gorman dispute, the union is looking down the barrel of another one. The dispute is not going to be settled unless the Government takes this type of legislation out of the area where it can be used as a bludgeon to batter unions into submission. That is not going to work. Inevitably there is going to be a confrontation, and the Prime Minister and others on the Government side have endeavoured to promote it time and time again. Time and time again they have tried to latch on to industrial disputes and they have failed. They have been made to look absolute goats. We have seen the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Falconer)  stand here and try to convince this House that this legislation has nothing to do with industrial legislation; that it is not meant as industrial legislation at all; that all it involves is companies, boycotts and the prevention of bona fide operations of other companies. That is a load of poppycock and he knows it. 
I undertook not to speak for any longer than I have spoken. A whole range of things could be said about this legislation to point out why we oppose the amendment to section 45d of the Trade Practice Act. The Government should hearken to a note of warning. Penal provisions never worked in the Conciliation and Arbitration Act and they will not work in this legislation. This legislation will provide a lot of justification for a confrontation with the Government by unions. There will be more power to the unions' arm if and when it is required. All the crocodile tears that are wept about the place will not prevent that. If the unions are fined $250,000 or if the Government takes the next step and gaols a union official it will be on and that will be on the heads of the people who have supported this legislation. 
Question put- 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
-The Opposition does not oppose either of these Bills. I shall just make a few comments that are relevant to both Bills and I am sure that I can crave the indulgence of the Minister for Home Affairs  (Mr Ellicott)  just to drift in one or two small areas and I might remind him that I shall seek some guidance from him on his attitude about a couple of other matters. I hope and trust that in the near future he will advise me about his decision. 
The Postal Services Amendment Bill 1978 is part of the Government's program, which program is laid out in the Bill itself, for the wellbeing of the inhabitants of the Cocos (Keeling) Islands. The Bill will allow the Cocos (Keeling) 
Islands to establish their own postal and philatelic services similar to those conducted by Norfolk Island and Christmas Island. The Cocos (Keeling) Islands will obtain revenue from these operations, primarily from philatelic sales, and the revenue so derived will be retained on the islands for the welfare of the inhabitants. The Bill also states that it is proposed that the Act shall take effect on a date to be fixed by proclamation which may be the date when the ordinance establishing the postal service takes effect. The decision has been taken to establish philatelic services on Christmas Island and Norfolk Island and on Christmas Island in particular the operation has proved to be very successful. The revenue increased strongly in the period under review in the 1977-78 report on Christmas Island. Total postage and philatelic revenue in 1977-78 amounted to $570,667 compared with a total of $202,482 in 1976-77. The 1977 special Christmas commemorative issue, Twelve Days of Christmas was awarded seventh place in the 1977 stamp of the year competition conducted by the Italia Filatelica. One hundred and six countries participated in the competition. I was proud to receive a copy of the set and I am sure that it does the individuals proud. I think that the Administrator participated to a large degree in the development of the service on the island. The service is a credit to the people directly concerned in negotiating with a company in London, I understand, and it shows that at least there is one area on the island which can be concentrated on; and it has certainly developed a large clientele. 
On Norfolk Island the same thing has occurred. There are just a couple of areas with regard to the Norfolk Island situation about which we must be warned. People on that island are prone to take advantage of their unique position- I will put it as high as that- in many other areas. They ensure that they take complete advantage of all the benefits associated with the island to the extent of not being prepared to pay taxes, but certainly they are prepared to take whatever comes and goes apart from that. I was interested to hear that  Mr Foot,  who was engaged in a number of other activities on the island, was interested in some involvement in the philatelic service on Norfolk Island. I sincerely hope and trust that that does not occur. There are a number of areas where this sort of thing can fail. If individuals move in and in the short run develop drops of the stamps concerned or overproduce stamps on the island, it seems to me that they will be heading to a position of certainly making a lolling in the first instance, but killing the whole business in the final analysis. That is just one of the issues with which we are concerned. I think that Qatar, Ras al Khaimah and Tonga are notable examples of the procedures that I have just outlined. 
There is also one other issue that I wish to put to the Minister. I think that on 5 February the Administrator of Norfolk Island asked Radio Australia to regard Norfolk Island stamp news as part of Radio Australia's broadcasts, so that the philatelic service of Norfolk Island could have a program containing news about the service available there. I sincerely hope and trust that the same steps are taken in respect of Cocos (Keeling) Islands. This Bill is probably not of great moment to many people here, but the revenue gain to the Islands from that sort of activity ought to be supported. I think the step the Government has taken is a step in the right direction. 
The Cocos (Keeling) Islands Amendment Bill, is straightforward. Its purpose is to introduce new citizenship provisions into the Cocos (Keeling) Islands Act 1 955 to extend Australian citizenship to any person not already an Australian citizen who was ordinarily resident on the Cocos (Keeling) Islands immediately before their transfer to Australia. Once again, this is a step in the right direction. However, I remind the Minister that there is another island adjacent to the Cocos (Keeling) Islands. I understand that steps have been taken in relation to that island. I have not seen the report nor do I have any information directly from the Minister as to what has happened with regard to the qualification for citizenship on that island. 
-Christmas Island. I understand that the qualification for citizenship is a period of residence of about five years. I do not know that officially. I would like the Minister to tell me. The fast answer would be that it has nothing to do with the Bill. However, I am sure that the Minister will not take that attitude but will either answer me now or give me some information later to satisfy me. The matter is relevant in that the Cocos (Keeling) Islands and Christmas Island are adjoining islands. There are three islands which might well be in the same situation. We will be debating the issue of selfgovernment for Norfolk Island in the near future. It seems to me that we run into difficulties in our external territories particularly when we exploit individuals who spend some time in the service of Australian industry. For example, the rural industry has had cheap phosphates from 
Christmas Island. I will not take the matter further as the Minister is likely to object at any tick of the clock. 
I am talking about Christmas Island at the moment. The Government has not done a bad job on Cocos. The former Labor Government started it. All the present Government has done has been to pick up where that Government left off. 
I do not want to argue the point. I do not think that there is any great difference between the Minister and me on the issue. We have let the situation in regard to Christmas Island continue for a considerable time. A problem concerning the police force has now arisen, that I will take up on another occasion. Rates of pay have been almost agreed upon, but certain difficulties have arisen because those rates are not recognised within the structure of the Australian arbitration system. I sincerly hope and trust that they will be recognised one of these days. 
Citizenship is a big issue. Clearly, the Minister ought to be congratulated on the step he is taking. It at least confirms the principle that we would adopt. However, the Government has other areas of responsibility. In particular, I should like to know precisely what has happened to date with the problem on Christmas Island. A declaration was to be made. In short, the Opposition does not oppose the Cocos (Keeling) Islands Amendment Bill. What I have said is constructive criticism. It is some assistance and comment about what procedures might be taken. As the counterpart to the Minister, I am interested in one of the other island Territories. I should like some information now or a verbal or written reply at his convenience. 
My question, too, is directed to the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs. It might be a little more difficult to answer. Having regard to the record achievements by this Government in the field of unemployment and the doleful display by the honourable member for Stirling in skirting the issues put to him by my colleague - 

 -Mr Speaker, I claim to have been misrepresented. 
I ask the Minister for Post and Telecommunications: Were telephone accounts to the amount of $20,000 submitted for telephones used by  Mr Harry  M. Miller at his home in Sydney, his office in William Street, Sydney, and his property at Manilla, New South Wales, for a six-monthly period ending November 1978? Will the Minister ascertain whether those accounts have been paid? If so, were they in fact paid by the Department of Administrative Services? 
I move: 
That this House- 
notes the serious inroads into normal postal and telecommunications services by private enterprise, and 
urges the Government to introduce legislation protecting Postal Commission and Telecom employees from these threats by maintaining the autonomy of the Commissions in their traditional areas of responsibilities and guaranteeing an equitable service for all Australians. 
The Opposition is disturbed that a vital public area is being sold out to the greedy interests of private capital. This is disturbing for two reasons. Firstly, postal and telecommunications services are essential national services which, by their nature ought to and must remain under public control. I will show that that control is slowly being eroded by deliberate Government policy. Secondly, Government acquiescence to private capital incursion into this field maintains the Government's position as the lackey of private capital at the expense of the Australian people. It maintains the sell out of the Australian taxpayers to the minority interests of the Liberal Party's powerful friends in the board rooms in Australia and around the world. Further, it maintains the narrow based philosophy of that party and this Government to the private enterprise system and exposes the anti-egalitarian nature of that philosophy. I contend also that these policies support the Government's main encomic thrust which also competes against the people's interest. It provides massive profits for the private sector but increases unemployment and directly attacks the hard won wages, conditions and standards of the public industry workers. 
An area where the Government could readily provide thousands of extra jobs in a profitable industry is retarded by Government policy. The dual effects of public enterprise profit areas entering private hands and the erosion of wages and conditions in the industry must please the Government. I am certain that the Government and its friends must recognise that in an economic climate of massive unemployment the atmosphere is ripe for destroying the privileges won by workers through years of struggle in their own organisations. It is the aim of this Government to crush the workers ' organisations in order to increase profits and by jettisoning successful public sector areas into the hands of the private sector it assists this aim. Both Australia Post and Telecom Australia operate under Acts which give them autonomy in their areas of operation as common carriers. It is proper and essential that this be so. The postal and telecommunications industries should remain under public control. They must not be allowed to fall by default or by design into the hands of those minority interests whose sole concern is profit, not service, and for whom the national interest means nothing other than their right to profiteer. 
The Act stipulates that these common carrier domains must not be duplicated. However, I am sure that we are all aware of the inroads into the private letter and telegram business being made unimpeded by private enterprise. For instance, courier messenger services could be seen to be in direct competition with Australia Post's telegram service. An Australian Labor Party government would investigate these practices and, if as I suspect, they break the law, it would outlaw them. If it is found that the courier messenger service has a role to play alongside the telegram service, we would maintain the public sector autonomy in the service by conducting it through Australia Post's own courier service. However, that sort of action would not suit this Government. After all, the business involved in the courier service is a major national transporter with close ties to the Liberal Party and the Government. It is a case of the Government's friends being allowed to erode a national service for private profiteering- the very movement of capital that this Government supports and encourages. Yet the Australia Post telegram service is already facing enough problems of survival without direct competition overtly or covertly supported by Government policy. 
The Opposition deplores the moves by this Government which threaten public autonomy in other areas. The dispute here in Canberra last year over the Canberra-Bombala mail run was over private inroads into Australia Post autonomy. Right at this moment Australia Post is throwing business away by allowing the National Roads and Motorists Association to employ a private contractor to sort and deliver to suburban post offices the massive quantity of journals which it produces. It is courting industrial action by removing work from its employee's hands. Australia Post encourages bodies such as the NRMA to take this course by its marketing approach to large scale mailings. Telecom is no better. It is allowing private firms partially to install new telephone wiring systems, sometimes with shoddy results. Telecom is apparently letting private contracts for cable repairs as well. 
These ill-conceived transfers of lucrative areas of public enterprise to private capital serves the Government's purposes in three ways. First, it transfers capital into private hands, to a few Government friends. Secondly, each inroad into the public sector prepares the way for future inroads into bigger, better and more profitable areas. Thirdly, the encroachment of private capital into these areas erodes the wages and conditions won over many years of struggle by workers in the industry. Private capital can undercut Australia Post costs in these areas by undercutting wages and conditions. Private contractors pay less; they give less. Overtime, special breaks and so on are all eroded by the private contractors, who abrogate the accepted principles of reasonable employment, although let me hasten to add that I consider all employment under the profit system exploitative and therefore probably 'unreasonable'. The attitude of private contractors is well known. 
Ironically, many Australia Post services are under threat from technological developments which are transferring Australia Post business to Telecom. We have a situation where one commission grows fatter at the expense of the other. I believe the respective profitability and viability of the Australian Postal Commission and the Australian Telecommunications Commission must be reviewed. However, this is not the specific subject matter of this motion, except that Telecom's ever enlarging profits must be tempting the Government to seek ways of transferring Telecom autonomy to the private sector. I also believe the staff levels in Telecom are designed to reduce service and perpetuate the myth that public enterprise is less efficient. The Government will be hard pressed to show that Telecom is less efficient. The Government and Telecom will argue there are no staff limits on Telecom but it is convenient that the Australian Telecommunications Commission should hold staff levels at numbers that conform to Government thinking. There are more ways of killing a cat than stuffing butter down its neck. The Commission must be allowed to employ as many workers as its market forces demand for prompt and efficient service. Indeed, it is being restricted from operating in broader areas which would allow employment increases. Private companies provide many services and millions of dollars of equipment which could be produced and provided from Telecom's own workshops. Telecom is leaving the whole range of business-oriented intercom and telephone systems to private enterprise. It even operates advice and sales offices which effectively service these private areas. I know of cases where Telecom has referred inquiries to private companies when Telecom itself provides the same equipment and services. Rather than allow these lucrative areas to remain in private hands without even token public competition, the Government ought to be investigating whether the private companies are in breach of the Telecommunications Act provisions making Telecom the common carrier. A Labor Government would certainly investigate this. 
There is no doubt that the private sector gazes longingly at the massive Telecom profit announcements. From the viewpoint of the few powerful capitalists who control this country, and from the viewpoint of their puppets in the 
Government, that profit ought to be transferred to the major private international communications giants and to a few leading Australian companies. The most invidious development in this direction is the telecommunications satellite, which would open the way for private encroachment into the traditional public autonomy. This fear is fanned by the major recommendations of the government task force on a national communications satellite system. Although the recommendations do not go so far as suggesting a national telecommunications satellite should be privately owned, it does recommend a separate commission, which would slash Telecom profits and even force Telecom to rent at high cost the facilities for services it now provides at profit through the terrestrial system. It is our opinion that this move away from Telecom is the beginning of private inroads into telecommunications control. A letter accompanying the Publishing and Broadcasting Ltd submission which precipitated the task force- a letter written by that company's  chairman, Mr Kerry  Packer- said that Telecom's autonomy must be challenged. That, I suggest, sums up  Mr Packer's  position. It is well known. 
The very origins of the task force suggest ulterior motives. Telecom, through its predecessor, began an in depth study into a communications satellite in 1972, and completed the study in November 1977. It concluded it was not economically possible to justify the satellite. The finding has been repeated in the minority dissenting statement of the Department of Finance in the task force report. On 15 August 1977 Publishing and Broadcasting Ltd presented its submission to the Government supporting a satellite system. The report was prepared for Packer by Donald Bond, an American employed by the United States giant, Radio Corporation of America. Bond had been involved in the installation of a satellite in Alaska. It would have seemed logical for the Government to pass the submission to the Telecom inquiry, which did not bring down its findings until three months after the Bond submission was presented. Yet, just 38 days after receiving Packer's statement, the Government announced a separate task force and gave it just six months to report. 
I contend that the devastating points I have made are clearly spelt out in the attitude of the Government to the matter. The task force was a set-up job to serve private interests once again. That is reflected in the report, which is full of uncertainties and unknowns. Yet Australia commits itself to an expense as high as $500m, on some estimates, for dubious immediate benefits. 
In saying this I am not saying that ultimately a satellite system will not benefit Australia, but I am saying that much independent research is required before an underutilised terrestrial system is written off at massive expense. The effects on employment, for instance, must be studied fully. 
The report plays into private hands by suggesting that the laws which supposedly, and only supposedly, restrict private monopoly control of the electronic media ought to be eased so that people such as Packer can freely compete for the country television station licences which will become available through the satellite. It plays even more into private hands by recommending that ground stations under the satellite would be privately owned. This is a major step on wresting telecommunications control away from public ownership and control. It is a major threat to government employees, and a major threat to the nation as a whole, but a major benefit to international giants such as International Business Machines. Internationally, IBM has been facing growing pressure in its traditional data-computer marketplace. It has recognised it must not only market central processors and peripherals, but also control the total solution to customers' communications needs. It needs access, on its terms, to communications links between computers, allowing input and dissemination of information through peripherals and enabling central processors to talk to each other. It needs satellites to provide alternative data links as free as possible from the traditional operators. Its submission made this clear; it must benefit only companies such as IBM. The report accommodated it! That recommendation alone will reap millions for IBM at public cost both in real terms and in the loss of vital public control over the communications system. 
In order to accommodate its friends the Government would write off a $6,000m system which now operates at public profit. Under the task force recommendations Telecom would be reduced to servicing the low-profit or non-profit areas. It would plummet to the level where this Government believes public enterprise ought to be, with public transport and other services which are left with autonomy in the nonlucrative areas, while private capital competes in the lucrative markets. 
The Opposition believes that private enterprise glares hungrily at Telecom's profit and at the few profit areas remaining to Australia Post. It is shameful that when unemployment is a major national crisis a profitable public enterprise should be restrained from reaching its employment potential, simply so that international profiteers can operate with the Government's blessing. We believe that this Government is deliberately fostering policies designed to transfer those profits to the private sector, ultimately leaving the public sector to operate at a loss in the non-profit areas that private capital does not want. That loss will represent a direct public subsidy of private capital and, in that it is the very philosophy of this Government, the practice must stand condemned. The Government has an obligation to the people of this country to ensure that the principles that are embodied in the proposition now before the House are investigated and that the autonomy of both the Postal Commission and Telecom Australia is maintained as it ought to be, and as envisaged in the Act at present. 
I would like to deal briefly with a couple of remarks made by my colleague on the other side of the House. He is known as Mike the Mouth and every time he opens his mouth the wind blows his tongue about. We have just heard as intelligent a contribution as we have come to expect from the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman).  If he could work half as hard as he talks he would be a world champion. He talked about his concern for youth and the bad language that they have been reading in the newspapers, but he repeated that language over the air, which shows the hypocrisy in which he deals. Another point that he made about being concerned for the youth of Australia was that we ought to thank God for the fact that 93 per cent were employed. That is all very well provided that one is not one of the 7 per cent who are not employed. It might be God's day today, but it is not the Prime Minister's. 
-The people on this side of the House, the Australian Labor Party people who are, as the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  - 
The issue of having some concern for youth ought to be taken seriously by people on the other side of the House. We have heard extravagant statements about the vile and detestable policies that flow from the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs. It might well be that the Government could adopt some sentimental approach to the impositions and stresses that it has placed on young people whom it cannot find a job. The Government intends to place additional pressure on these young people by threatening to take their unemployment benefit if they are not prepared to leave their homes and travel hundreds of miles away to obtain work. The Government intends to treat these people in an ignominious fashion. They will be forced to take jobs in which they cannot use their expertise or educational qualifications. 
Some of the special youth employment training schemes are an absolute farce. The scheme to which I have made reference is just a charade and I believe that the Minister ought to go back and have another look at it. The scheme, which is part of the National Employment and Training scheme, provides for people from 16 to 25 years to be employed so that they can develop skills. Young people are put into the work force and subsidised for 20 weeks. At the end of this period they will have developed skills and hence they are supposed to be employable. The Commonwealth Employment Service offers no expertise in this area. The employer draws up the training schedule, but facilities for developing the scheme are non-existent. 
I would like to give an example of how the scheme operates.  Mr Murray  Brown works at Orosun Trading in Melbourne and he is paid under-award wages. The CES does not supervise his training or the level of wages he is paid. The Department of Employment and Youth Affairs expects this individual to learn in 26 weeks what an apprentice is expected to learn in three or four years. Brown is instructed to learn much more than assembly work. He is obligated to work with screws and staplers and to learn planing, drilling, routing, spray painting and cutting. But he is not taught assembly work skills. He is given only a limited number of weeks to learn to use sophisticated and very dangerous equipment. He has to work with machinery that is beyond the level of simple assembly work. The CES has breached awards by allowing employers to take on ineligible trainees. Only apprentices should be employed under the awards. When employers are told that they are breaking the law they say that they are doing this under the instruction of the Minister. 
Another case I wish to raise concerns a curtain factory at Nunawading in Victoria. The award covering workers in this factory provides that only one junior be employed for every six adults or part thereof- namely, one to six, two to seven, two to twelve and three to thirteen. That is the order of the day. If union organisers inform an employer that he is breaking the law the person concerned says: 'That is O.K., the CES sent them along and so far as I am concerned that organisation can take the responsibility'. Therefore under the formula provided by the CES employers are being encouraged to employ young folk under circumstances in which the impossible is expected from them. These young people are expected to pursue a certain career after only weeks of training. A young person who was able to undertake successfully a course and develop all the skills required over this short period of time- and as I indicated it is impossible to achieve this- would come out as a French polisher, a cabinet maker and a wood machinist, notwithstanding the fact that these trades each require four years of apprenticeship. What happens, of course, is that individuals who are trained under these schemes do not come out with any great skills at all. In the main they are exploited by the employer and at the end of their training period they are out in the cold hard world and are replaced by another trainee. It is only a case of recycling youth unemployment. This scheme does not create one single job. 
The Commonwealth Employment Service is taking on people for 17 weeks. At the same time it is applying staff ceilings. If the Government wants to reduce the number of people in the Public Service what justification does it have for employing young people in the Public Service? This is just another example of recycling youth employment. The Minister advised us the other day that 1,000 young people will be taken on. I estimate that some 350 young people will be taken on by June. It has been suggested that pressure will be applied to Telecom to reduce its staff by 540 people. What sort of a joke is it? The morale of the Public Service is at rock bottom. Staff ceilings are being applied to a situation which I presented to the media just a few weeks ago in which CES employees are being forced to undertake work in an area in which they are not competent to operate. For instance, some people who are in the degrading position of not having a job are interviewed across the counter by junior officers. Notations are made on cards in respect of personal details, country of origin and other information which is totally irrelevant to whether or not a person can fit a job. This is not the fault of the CES staff or the public servants. 
In many cases the first job given to a junior officer involves across the counter work. A senior officer conducts one interview with the junior who is then left on his own. He is given a manual which contains all the instructions to which I make reference. How can such an officer deal with a complicated and sophisticated type of inquiry that may come from an individual who is struggling to find a job so that he can support his family. Some young girls in Melbourne who want to find work are being placed in a situation of having to prostitute themselves to keep a roof over their heads. Anyone who wants to challenge what I am saying can come down to my electorate at any time and talk to some of the girls on the streets of Fitzroy and Collingwood. That is the sort of thing to which the Government has to apply its mind. We should not be subjected to the airy fairy schemes that the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs presents as a facade to the House of Representatives day after day. The Minister's youth schemes do not create one single job. All they do is recycle the young unemployed. When people employed under these schemes finish their training they go back into the dole queue. If they are not prepared to take a job hundreds of miles away their unemployment benefit will be cut off. This situation is a disgrace and the Government ought to be condemned for its policies. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drummond)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. The honourable member for Denison wishes to make a personal explanation. Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 

 Mr HODGMAN (Denison)-I claim to have been misrepresented on two bases by the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  who has just resumed his seat. First, as is his practice, he twisted and misrepresented my clearly expressed attitude with respect to unemployment. Secondly, sir, he misrepresented me in the manner in which once again he described me. Whilst I do not ask for a withdrawal I do ask for a ruling. If he continues to refer to me in this way, is it in order for me to refer to him as Red Ted, the only communist member of this House? 
What the honourable member said is offensive to me. I have been opposed by communists throughout my political and industrial career. Once again our friend is prone to extravagant statements and I ask him to withdraw what he said. 
No, he has not. 
An honourable member cannot qualify the withdrawal of certain words. 
-( 10.40)-This evening I bring to the attention of the House, and in particular to some of my friends on the other side of the chamber, a recent case of misleading and exploitative advertising. I appeal to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife),  who has advised me that he could not be here this evening, to have some regard to what I am putting and to carry out some investigation into it. Page 12 of last Saturday's  Canberra Times  carried an advertisement for a local motor dealer- Lennock Motors Pty Ltd. This company is in the business of flogging Datsun vehicles to an unsuspecting public. Unfortunately for this company, some members of the public did suspect what was up and contacted me during the course of the week. 
They would not get any response from the honourable member for Canberra. I ask honourable members to take the time to peruse this advertisement at their leisure. Even some of the more myopic honourable members on the benches opposite me should have no trouble in finding it. At only 29 centimetres by 38 centimetres in size it is no mere squib, but its being printed in red would be enough to deter some of our erstwhile friends opposite who shudder at the very thought of that colour unless they are wanting trade with Red China or the like. 
The advertisement purports to offer the 'best value family sedan you can buy' at a mere $5,399. In fact the most prominent feature of the whole advertisement is the price, which is in red figures 7 centimetres high- nearly three inches. Nowhere does the advertisement mention that $5,399 is what a person would actually pay for a car that he could drive away. The only reference to what might be an addition to the price is a caption about one-sixteenth of an inch which would be difficult for anybody with probably the best sight in the business to read. 
In fact, if the model mentioned were available today, which it is not, a person could not drive it away without paying $5,740, which is $341 more than the advertised price. Interestingly enough, the model offered is the 'deluxe ' model. Honourable members with knowledge of the English language may be forgiven for thinking that the 'deluxe' is the top of the range. In fact in this age of 'Newspeak' the deluxe is at the bottom of the range. This is another false and misleading description, this time by the manufacturer, no doubt. But I have digressed. I return to the extra costs demanded by Lennock Motors. The amount of $341 is, of course, considerably more than just the registration costs. Lennock Motors would like people to spend an extra $ 1 50 to have the car delivered from Sydney. If one speaks to a different salesman one will be told that an extra $180 is the figure for delivery costs. This company demands that a person who wants to buy a car as a result of seeing the advertised price of $5,399 has to fork out an extra $150 to $180 for the delivery. That ought to cover not only its cost of delivery from Sydney but the advertising costs as well. 
But do not let me lead honourable members astray. Lennock 's advertisements are not entirely misleading. The company is honest enough to point out that this is a 'special limited offer'. It even admits that only a limited selection of the entire range is available. That is the truth. The range is so limited that since Saturday the stock of this specially offered model is no longer available. No delivery date is available; only a delivery price of $150 or $180. That is the picture. Lennock Motors advertises cars that it does not have and at a price less than it will sell the car. As I have said, Lennock Motors has a selective sense of honesty. It surfaced again today when one of my compatriots inquired about buying one of these bargain cars. The salesman gave the game away. He said, in reference to the advertising of the cheapest model at the cheapest price, that it is 'an attraction to bring people into the yard', meaning the sale yard. 
I wonder how many people have been attracted into that spider's web since Saturday only to find themselves being offered cars up to $2,700 dearer. I wonder how many people went home with less money in their pockets, with a car they did not really want and reflecting on the shark-like grins of the salesmen who fleeced them. I wonder how many of these parasites waxed fat on their commission cheques on Saturday night thanks to this misleading and exploiting advertising. I call on the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs to do something about this. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Having regard to the 76 outback towns which it is proposed will receive Australian Broadcasting Commission television broadcasts via satellite during 1979-82 under the remote areas program, could the Minister inform the House which of those 76 towns at present has an adequate telephone service; what he defines as an adequate telephone service; the cost, in 1979 dollars, in extending terrestrial television broadcasts via repeater and translation stations to the 76 towns as originally proposed and approved; the cost of extending satellite telephonic communication to the 76 outback centres as compared with the cost of adding telephonic capability to the terrestrial television broad band stations originally approved; the earliest date at which the integration of the 76 towns into the terrestrial broad band television and telephone network could be achieved; the earliest date at which the 76 towns will receive satellite television and have a decent reliable telephone service, whether by satellite or terrestrially; the difference in signal quality between satellite and terrestrial television and telephony; and, finally, the effects the Government's commitment to ABC broadcasting via INTELSAT will have on the timetabling of Telecom's general terrestrial expansion program? 
-I believe that I have been placed in a position of provocation by the Minister for Home Affairs  (Mr Ellicott).  With due respect to you,  Mr Speaker  you came into this debate some time after the debate had commenced.. In terms of that provocation and some of the matters that were raised in the first instance, you may well have been a better judge whether my behaviour was reprehensible, as you have put it if you had been here all the time. Certain remarks have been made by members on either side of the House. These occur in the general context of a debate when matters such as are in issue now are raised. I certainly do not act in a manner which you put to me this evening as - 
Thank you very much,  Mr Speaker.  That is the ultimate of democracy. 
-I withdraw it. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
I wish to raise yet another matter reflecting upon the Government's inhumane attitude to the unemployed. Young people participating in the new Inner Northern Education Program for Unemployed Youth within my electorate are being forced to survive for weeks without any income. These young people, mostly in the Flemington, Kensington and North Melbourne areas, are transferred from unemployment benefits to payments under the National Employment and Training scheme when they enter the new scheme. They are taken off the Department of Social Security computer listing for unemployment benefits and told that it may take from 10 days to six weeks for NEAT payments to begin. Even if it took 10 days to receive the first payment, that would be too long for many people to survive between payments of the miserable benefits that this Government pays, but it never takes just 10 days for the transfer. Often it takes more than six weeks; it rarely takes less. 
The course that I have referred to is part of an education program orientated to transferring literacy, numeracy and life skills to unemployed youth. It is designed to help literate or semiliterate unemployed young people. As such, these people are less able than others to cope with long delays between their inadequate government handouts. In practice, many are dropping out of the program because they cannot afford to remain in it. They leave the program and make desperate attempts to get back on to unemployment benefits, and that defeats the purpose of the program. However, I suspect that the Government does not really care about that. Like the rest of the bandaid schemes that the Government operates for making the young unemployed slightly better trained young unemployed, this scheme simply serves as an excuse for not taking action to ease unemployment. Indeed, when a government's policy deliberately aims at creating unemployment in the interests of increasing private profit, such schemes become a cynical exploitation of the unemployed. However, I have not risen to launch an attack on the schemes. 
Honourable members opposite stand up and sing the praises of the responsible Minister, the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner);  and for some strange reason they justify this array of schemes, which do nothing but fit people for non-existent jobs. The greatest effect of these schemes is to employ unemployed social workers. This particular scheme is beyond the pale. I am concerned that- whatever the purpose for which the Government establishes schemes such as the Inner Northern Education Program for Unemployed Youth- having established a scheme the Government at least should show a humane approach to its participants. The individuals to whom I have referred are particularly vulnerable because they cannot compete with people who have all their faculties about them. The Government shows callous disregard for the victims of its own policies when it leaves these young people for six weeks or more without income, when it can be assured that they are at rock bottom. These young people can go no further down the track. Complaint after complaint has reached my office from individuals entering the scheme indicating that the minimum time that they have had to wait is more than 10 days. Not one person has been attended to in 10 days or even 12 days. As I said in the first instance, the waiting time extends to something like six weeks or more. There must be a simple procedure for allowing a transfer from unemployment benefits to NEAT benefits without a break. A government which allows that break is reflecting its true attitude to young unemployed people. Nonetheless, I urge the Minister to take immediate action. He has been approached on numerous occasions by other people. Requests have been made by agencies in the area, but they have been totally disregarded. I urge the Minister to take immediate action to remove this anomaly, which is causing hardship to many young people who are attempting to improve their opportunities, notwithstanding the fact that they have been cast on the scrap heap in the same way as many other young people in this country. 
-This evening I present the Australian Labor Party's policy on the future government of Norfolk Island. That policy is in direct conflict with the philosophy espoused in the policy speech which was delivered by the Minister for Home Affairs  (Mr Ellicott)  on Norfolk Island and which was incorporated into  Hansard  on 1 1 May last year. That policy speech on Norfolk Island went so for as to suggest in one area to the Norfolk Island Council that the Government did not expect the Council to pay unemployment benefits. That is the Government's real philosophy. It would never dare to implement that type of philosophy in mainland Australia where the Government's opponents are too strong. But on Norfolk Island the weak and the unorganised are easy game for a predatory and unsympathetic government. Our policy is strongly opposed to that philosophy and  its offspring, the Norfolk Island Bill 1978. Consequently we oppose the Bill. I will indicate the Opposition 's view on the other Bill at the appropriate time. 
We do not propose to deny self-government to the people of Norfolk Island. We oppose the Bill only in its present form. On the contrary, we wish to make self-government for the island a reality. The Norfolk Island Bill before the House tonight does not give self-government to Norfolk Island. Any resemblance between this legislation and the priniciples of self-determination is entirely coincidental. The amendment which we will propose is based on the philosophy that the wishes of the Norfolk Islanders in regard to their future mode of government should be accommodated as far as possible as long as the interests of mainland Australia are not compromised. In line with this philosophy the proposed amendment provides for a greater control over machinery matters of government for the proposed Norfolk Island Legislative Assembly; control over a much wider number of matters of government; a reduction in the Australian Government's powers in the Bill; the provision of social security and an industrial court for Norfolk Island; the extension of Australian taxation legislation to Norfolk Island; a Bill of Rights to be included in the Bill; and the proposed Norfolk Island Legislative Assembly to be elected by the fairest method to all concerned, in this instance proportional representation. 
The Norfolk Island Bill was introduced with the stated intention of providing what the Minister termed 'responsible government for the Island'. I ask: Responsible to whom? Is it to be responsible to the corporate tax evaders who still utilise the island to defraud the Australian people of their just dues? Is it to be responsible to the elderly and infirm on Norfolk Island who eke out their daily lives on $35 a week pocket money from the island Government? Is it to be responsible to the employers on the island who operate free of any industrial control? Is it to be responsible to the island workers who have no minimum wage, no workers' compensation and no protection before the law in industrial matters? I say that the Liberal Government was responsible to its rich and powerful friends. What of the ordinary people of Norfolk Island and Australia? They should just look to the major effects of the Bill and see for themselves. The amendment proposed by the Opposition refers to the motion for the second reading and reads as follows: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: the Bill be withdrawn and re-drafted to achieve the following purposes: 
1 ) that the powers of the Administrator as proposed in the Bill be reduced by- 
transferring to the Legislative Assembly the executive government of Norfolk Island, and abolishing the Executive Council; 
enabling the Legislative Assembly to make Ordinances providing for matters specified in Schedule 2 to the Bill without the need for those Ordinances to be assented to; 
transferring to the  President  of the Legislative Assembly the power to fix the dates of elections; 
transferring to the Legislative Assembly and the  President  of the Legislative Assembly the power to convene meetings of the Assembly; 
transferring to the Legislative Assembly the power to accept resignations of Presidents and Deputy Presidents of the Assembly; 
placing a limit of 60 days upon the period within which the Administrator may consider proposed Ordinances; 
enabling the Legislative Assembly to appeal to the Minister, and thence to the Parliament, against any action, opinion or decision of the Administrator; and 
changing the title of the Administrator to one more suitable to the changed status of Norfolk Island; 
that the powers of the Governor-General as proposed in the Bill be reduced by- 
placing a limit of 90 days upon the period within which the Governor-General may consider proposed Ordinances; and 
removing the power to disallow, or recommend amendments to, Ordinances made by the Legislative Assembly as proposed in sub-paragraph (l)(b) above or assented to by the Administrator; 
that the powers of the Legislative Assembly as proposed in the Bill be expanded by vesting in the Legislative Assembly the sole power of appointing members of the Executive Council and terminating their appointment, in the event of there being an Executive Council; 
The Opposition is opposed to there being an executive council in the first instance. Our amendment continues: 
that matters specified in Schedule 2 to the Bill include referendums, electoral law, the recruitment and management of the Norfolk Island Public Service and education; 
that matters specified in Schedule 3 to the Bill include land use and zoning, mining, public hospitals, conservation and national parks, law enforcement and management of historical sites; 
that a Bill of Rights for Norfolk Islanders be included in the Bill, ensuring, in particular, the recognition of the island as the historical homeland of the Pitcairners and the protection of their remaining rights; 
that the recommendation by the Administrator in respect of a money Bill be required before the Bill is passed by the Legislative Assembly; 
that moneys shall not be lent to Norfolk Island by the Commonwealth except with the agreement of Norfolk Island; 
9 ) that members of the Legislative Assembly be elected by a method of proportional representation, the whole of Norfolk Island constituting a single electoral division; 
10) that the taxation and social security legislation of the Commonwealth be extended to Norfolk Island in full; and 
that Norfolk Island be incorporated into an appropriate electoral division of the Commonwealth of Australia, and that Australian citizens resident on the island be enrolled in that electoral division'. 
We find that the Government has refused to extend Australian taxation legislation to the island. The rort that has been going on for years for the rich in this country is to continue. The Government is not concerned with the corporate evasion of stamp duties on the island. It is not concerned at the family trusts which this country's ruling class use to avoid estate and gift duties. Perhaps those gentlemen involved very close to the mark with family trusts on the island could explain why the Government is ignoring the tax evasion. Perhaps other gentlemen in the Cabinet with family trusts elsewhere could explain why the tax minimisation is to continue. Whatever we like to call it, it is evasion- a rose by any other name. 
This monstrous rort is to continue. The Government is in possession of Australian Taxation Office reports which suggest that tax evasion in this country is of the order of $3 billion annually. I doubt whether that is enough money to wipe out completely the deficit with which we are confronted, having regard to the latest reports; but it would come very close to wiping it out. Here we have a case of a Royal Commission examining tax evasion by Australians using Norfolk Island as their base, and recommending that Australian taxation laws be extended to the island. However, the Government blithely ignores the Royal Commission's recommendations, for the benefit of its real electorate, the Australian ruling class. Let me use the example to which I pointed in this Parliament less than 12 months ago, namely, that of $30m being passed into and out of the island on one day, of round robin transactions taking place. There is plenty of evidence in regard to that matter. The people involved are not doing that for the good of their health. Maybe I am wrong; perhaps they are doing it for that reason. The fact is that investigations have been conducted by taxation officers on Norfolk Island. I am advised that litigation is pending, not necessarily in relation to people who live on the island but in relation to their colleagues who live elsewhere. 
The financial cake remains in the hands of the tax evaders. But does the Government throw any crumbs to the disadvantaged on Norfolk? No, not on your life. Australian social security legislation is not to be extended to the island either. Every other citizen is entitled to an age pension, to a family allowance, to unemployment benefit and to the full range of Australian social welfare benefits; but that is not the case for those Australian citizens who are unfortunate enough to live on Norfolk Island. The Government has entrusted the social security of the islanders to the people who, before November 1976, were paying a paltry $10 a week allowance to those islanders who could not support themselves. The merest concession to the islanders' welfare has been made by the Government. 
The islanders have said that pension payments must be as of right and that they should not be in the current untenable position whereby needy residents must go cap in hand to the administration and prove their need. That is a situation where payment is dependent on officialdom's grace and favour. This situation is not satisfactory; it is not humane; and it is not benevolent. But this Government has never been noted for its benevolence to the needy, to the unemployed and to the young people who have to go to great lengths in trying to eke out an existence on the dole. Neither has the Norfolk Island Council been noted for its benevolence. It is currently considering a draft social services ordinance which is as generous as Malcolm Fraser. That is about as low as one can go. I assure the people of Norfolk Island and all Australians that the Australian Labor Party's sympathies are with the Norfolk Island people in their plight. 
I make it clear to the residents of Norfolk Island and to their representatives, who are here today and who were also here the other day, that the Labor Party's plan for Australian taxation and social security legislation to be extended to the island poses no threat to them. Social security payments will be tied to the Norfolk Island cost of living, not to that of Australia. Levels of payments will be set, in keeping with island circumstances. Pensions will be paid as of right. No longer will the embarrassing and discredited grace and favour system apply. No longer will unemployed islanders have to leave the island to survive, as they do at the moment- no unemployment benefit being paid on the island. No longer will islanders have to listen to empty promises about raising pensions to a level which is at least equivalent to that of Australian pensions. The Australian taxation system also is not a threat to the island or to its way of life. The island will remain financially viable under Australian taxation laws. The Australian Labor 
Party makes this promise to the people of Norfolk. 
Our amendment asks that the question of Australian economic assistance to the island be examined in the light of the economic study of Norfolk Island being conducted by Professors Gates and Treadgold. We condemn the Government for bringing on the debate on this legislation and attempting to pass it before this most important and pioneering study has been completed. Norfolk's economy has not been studied in detail previously. Now, with the report due within a month or so, the Government hops in blindfolded and feet first and brings on the debate on the Bills without the advantage of having examined all the possibilities in relation to Norfolk which will be dealt with by Professors Gates and Treadgold. We believe that it has brought on this debate in indecent haste. It seems to me to be putting the cart before the horse. If one is to determine what ought to be a needs concept and if one is to have the advantage of knowing what is available on the island for the purposes of establishing that concept as a matter of right, it seems to me that one should conduct an examination first. 
Australian taxation laws are to be applied to catch the Australian tax evaders. They will be designed so as not to milk the ordinary Norfolk Islanders. I give this undertaking. It will not suprise me if many of the wealthy blow-ins who are now extolling the virtues of that beautiful little island and stirring the possum over independence leave quick smart, with nary a second glance back, when their cosy little tax haven is threatened. The rich will pay, and they must effectively pay. I believe that both Norfolk and Australia will benefit by this policy. The tax sharks will be flushed from their lairs and brought to book, and Norfolk will lose some of the parasites who prey on and exploit the island's resources. There is plenty of evidence to suggest that. I say to the Norfolk Island people that taxation will not be a financial drain on the island. Taxation receipts will be used to the betterment of the island people. It seems to me that that is a fair and reasonable proposition. 
I turn my attention to the mode of government that this disreputable Liberal Government is foisting on the Norfolk Islanders. Let there be no mistake about the fact that the Norfolk Island Bill is being foisted on the island. There has been sustained and widespread criticism of the Bill on Norfolk since it was published. The Island Council unanimously rejected it at one point in time. The United Nations Association of Australia has rejected it. The island's people have rejected it. 
Tonight, in its current form, the Australian Labor Party, the opposition party, rejects it also. The Minister for Home Affairs  (Mr Ellicott)  last November called for public discussion on the Bill. I might have a few words to say about that in a few moments, when dealing with one of the clauses of the Bill. He said, as I indicated, that the Government would then 'consider whether there is a need for any amendments' and that public discussion would take place. The invited public discussion was forthcoming and it universally condemned the Bill. 
One would have thought that in these circumstances there was indeed a need to make amendments to it. But were those amendments forthcoming? No, not until the last moment. I was handed a list of 1 17 amendments last night. The Clerks of the House were presented with those amendments this morning. I publicly commend the Clerks on the job that they have done in bringing this matter before the House under very difficult circumstances. The Bill stands almost as it did last November- a little dishevelled and now to be amended in some form. It is tattered at the edges but fundamentally unchanged. That lack of proper and substantial amendment is the reason why the representatives of the Norfolk Island Council have been here during the last week. They probably sat glumly in the Gallery the other day because of what they had been offered- promises found, for God's sake, in a copy of a Norfolk Island newspaper last weekend. It seems to me that the Government has to get its priorities right. One of the two publications on Norfolk Island- the  Norfolk Island News  and the  Norfolk Islander-  published many of the amendments which were presented to me as spokesman for the Opposition and to the Clerks who had to deal with them this morning. 
The Minister for Home Affairs, when speaking on Norfolk Island before the drafting of the Bills, told the island people that the Government's objective had been: 
. to provide for the development of a responsible form of self-government for Norfolk Island. 
This Bill does not provide self-government, or anything like it, for Norfolk Island. I have no need to remind the Norfolk people of that. They are united in their summation of the Bill as providing an insufficient measure of selfdetermination for the island. Really, the Bill is a sham. 
The Minister offers Norfolk Island control over a large number of mostly minor and uninspiring matters. He even tells the islanders that the Administrator must assent to all ordinances that they make on these matters. However, this false dawn for self-government is exposed when the Minister says a few magic words- referring to clause 23 of the Bill- and out springs a Government veto. The illusion is shattered. No longer can Norfolk Island make ordinances, even about such harmless matters as cemeteries, advertising, hoardings, pests and noxious weeds as the Government slaps on the veto. Democracy for Norfolk Island is not forthcoming. Clause 23 is just as repressive as that. It gives the Governor-General, which in reality means the Australian Government, power to disallow any ordinance which the Administrator may have assented to in the previous six months. That is right, the new Norfolk Island Legislative Assembly can pass a law, the Administrator may assent to it, even the Minister may assent to it, but for up to six months later it can be nullified with just a stroke of the pen. First you give and then you take away. 
But do not think Norfolk Island got off lightly with just one veto over all of its legislation. No, another veto springs out of clause 21 which allows the Government to inspect and reject any ordinance on any matter not found in schedule  2  of the Bill. Schedule 2 contains only innocuous matters. They are nearly all matters over which any shire council on the mainland has control. In fact, schedule 2 is so bland that it was described on the island as a list of the present local records, public utilities, public nuisances and public conveniences. If a matter is not in the schedule, and believe me, many of the normal powers of government are not, then the Government has a double veto over it. 
The Labor Party says that this situation must be changed. Norfolk Island deserves to be given control over a wider range of matters. Over some of these matters, there is no earthly reason why the island Assembly cannot receive complete, rather than nominal, control. There are other matters in which the Australian Government has clear interests in the matters and should therefore have power of veto. However, Labor considers that a single power of veto is quite sufficient. There should be no retrospective veto; there should be no clause 23. This clause is the single most insulting and meddlesome interference by the Government in what should be the domestic affairs of Norfolk Island, and must be deleted. Schedule 2 to the Bill concerning matters over which the Norfolkers should have unimpeded control should be amended to include referendums, electoral law, the recruitment and management of the Norfolk Island Public Service and education. 
Schedule 3, which contains matters over which the Australian Administrator, acting on ministerial instructions, will have a veto, should be expanded to include land use and zoning, mining, public hospitals and health, conservation and national parks, law enforcement and management of historical sites. The GovernorGeneral also has power under this Bill, in certain circumstances, to make an ordinance concerning the raising and expenditure of taxes on the island. This may be done without even presenting the proposed ordinance to the Legislative Assembly, much less obtaining its consent, despite the fact that under schedule 2 to the Bill - those supposedly devolved powers- the Assembly has control over the public moneys of the Territory. The circumstances where the Governor-General can interfere in the island's government in this way are when: 
No provision, or insufficient provision, has been made for the expenditure of moneys for the purposes of the government of the Territory. 
In other words the Governor-General may intervene in a legislative dispute over money bills. Many members of the Australian electorate will remember with distaste how a previous Governor-General intervened in such a dispute in this country in November 1975. This Bill gives the Governor-General legal power to do on Norfolk Island what a Governor-General did illegally in Australia on 1 1 November. 
But once again the Minister's attitude is exposed. The Parliament should not allow the Governor-General to interfere in the island's affairs in this manner. The Labor Party believes that this power should be deleted from the Bill. No definition of the Governor-General appears in the Bill. I think perhaps we can be satisfied that the Acts Interpretation Act applies and, if that is the case, the Minister may satisfy our opposition to that. If the Act applies and the Governor-General is defined as the GovernorinCouncil, acting with the advice with the Federal Executive Council, perhaps that solves the situation. 
Labor believes that the role of the Administrator should be curtailed as well. He or she retains many small but important machinery powers which ought to be in the hands of the representatives of the people of Norfolk Island. If it were suggested by me that the GovernorGeneral should decide the date of Australian elections, both sides of this House would rise up in uproar. But the Administrator is to choose election dates on the island. This power should rest with the  President  of the Assembly, as with the Prime Minister in Australia. Similarly, the Administrator convenes all meetings of the Assembly and accepts the resignation of Presidents and  Deputy  Presidents. In normal circumstances the  President  of the Assembly should convene Assembly meetings. There should also be provision for a quorum of Assembly members to convene Assembly meetings in certain circumstances. The Assembly's office-bearers should resign to the body that elected them- the Assembly- and not to an Australian official. 
In this Bill, the Australian Government representative on the island retains the colonialist and anachronistic title of Administrator. We find this insulting to Norfolk Island on its new path to self-government. We suggest that the Government's representative have a title more in keeping with his or her role as the Australian representative. In their consideration of ordinances, neither the Administrator nor the GovernorGeneral is bound to any time limit. This provides another way in which the Australian Government can interfere in the legislative program on the island. It may legally put off assent to an ordinance for years. The Labor Party believes that the Australian Government should be tied to a timetable in its consideration of proposed ordinances. It therefore recommends that the Administrator have 60 days and the GovernorGeneral 90 days in which to consider proposed legislation. 
Although it is within the Administrator's power to decide what in his opinion is within or outside schedules 2 and 3, as well as a number of other important matters, there is no provision in the Bill for an appeal by the Legislative Assembly over a decision of the Administrator. Such an appeal is recommended. It should be first to the Minister, thence to the Australian Parliament. Despite the fact that the Legislative Assembly will contain only nine members, the Bill proposes an executive council composed of Assembly members. The Council has the sole task of advising the Administrator, who convenes and presides at all its meetings, and may sack its members. Some amendments have been passed. It may well be that the Minister can now say that certain other procedures are in fact in the amendments. One could be excused for not being able to see them in the 117 amendments handed to the Opposition last evening. 
The Executive Council has no defined Cabinet role. There is a likelihood that all or almost all Assembly members will have executive functions, that is, have responsibility for any of the matters contained in Schedules 2 and 3. The Assembly itself is to consist of only nine members. In these circumstances the need for an executive council and a three-tier system of Government is vanishingly small. Consequently Labor would amend the Bill to remove mention of the executive council. The Australian Labor Party believes in a Bill of Rights for all Australians. But it is necessary that there be a special provision for the people of Norfolk Island, as an Australian Bill of Rights would fail to take into account the special rights of the descendants of the Pitcairn Islanders who were given the island by Queen Victoria in 1865. These special rights are principally land rights. The Norfolk Islanders should also have the right to vote for representatives in this, our national Parliament. These people have been Australian citizens since 1913 but still have not a vote in the Parliament. The Labor Party believes that the island should be included in an appropriate Australian electorate. This should not be taken on the island to mean that the island people will lose their special relationship with the Minister. Under Labor there will be a Minister responsible for the territories, just as there is today. 
There are also a number of drafting ambiguities in the Bill that should be corrected. One appears to allow the Australian Government to lend moneys to the island without receiving a request for those moneys from the Assembly. Perhaps we can get an explanation on that. Another implies that a money Bill must be recommended by the Administrator before being debated in the Assembly. This is similar, but quite excessive to, the requirements of section 56 of the Australian Constitution. The Labor Party agrees that money bills should receive the recommendation of the Administrator before being passed, but would allow those Bills to be debated in the Assembly before such recommendation. I defy anybody but a constitutional lawyer to explain what clause 18 (2) means. It reads: 
An Ordinance shall not be made so as to affect the application of its own force in, or in relation to, the Territory of an Act or a provision of an Act. 
Perhaps an aspirant to the High Court might be able to explain that to me. Why cannot legislation be drafted in language that ordinary people can understand? Another paragraph opens a loophole whereby normally ineligible people can stand for election as  President  or  Deputy President  of the Assembly. 
The vital part of the Opposition's proposed amendment to the Norfolk Island Bill would set up a conciliation and arbitration system for Norfolk Island constituted by visiting commissioners  and judges of the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. We see that as essential. At the present time, the private sector on Norfolk Island operates completely free of fetters in regard to workers' compensation, sick leave, recreation leave, long service leave, minimum wages, margins, or conditions of termination. I imagine that the Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd would like to be in that position, even though it goes back to the eighteenth century. This laissez-faire industrial system has resulted in exploitation of employees by business owners and managers on the island. Many of the business owners are not Pitcairn Islanders. Last year one hotel proprietor- I understand that his establishment is the Hibiscus- was paying his staff $70 a week for a six-day 48-hour week. Can anybody justify that? At the same time, workers on the island are held to ransom because if they have not got a job they will be moved off the island. Because of the Opposition's concern for the people of Norfolk Island, I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: the Bill be withdrawn and re-drafted to achieve the following purposes: 
1 ) that the powers of the Administrator as proposed in the Bill be reduced by- 
transferring to the Legislative Assembly the executive government of Norfolk Island, and abolishing the Executive Council; 
enabling the Legislative Assembly to make Ordinances providing for matters specified in Schedule 2 to the Bill without the need of those Ordinances to be assented to; 
transferring to the  President  of the Legislative Assembly the power to fix the dates of elections; 
transferring to the Legislative Assembly and the  President  of the Legislative Assembly the power to convene meetings of the Assembly; 
transferring to the Legislative Assembly the power to accept resignations of Presidents and Deputy Presidents of the Assembly; 
placing a limit of 60 days upon the period within which the Administrator may consider proposed Ordinances; 
enabling the Legislative Assembly to appeal to the Minister, and thence to the Parliament, against any action, opinion or decision of the Administrator; and 
changing the title of the Administrator to one more suitable to the changed status of Norfolk Island; 
that the powers of the Governor-General as proposed in the Bill be reduced by- 
placing a limit of 90 days upon the period within which the Governor-General may consider proposed Ordinances; and 
removing the power to disallow, or recommend amendments to, Ordinances made by the Legislative Assembly as proposed in sub-paragraph (l)(b) above or assented to by the Administrator; 
that the powers of the Legislative Assembly as proposed in the Bill be expanded by vesting in the Legislative Assembly the sole power of appointing members of the Executive Council and terminating their appointment, in the event of there being an Executive Council; 
that matters specified in Schedule 2 to the Bill include referendums, electoral law, the recruitment and management of the Norfolk Island Public Service and education; 
5 ) that matters specified in Schedule 3 to the Bill include land use and zoning, mining, public hospitals, conservation and national parks, law enforcement and management of historical sites; 
that a Bill of Rights for Norfolk Islanders be included in the Bill, ensuring, in particular, the recognition of the island as the historical homeland of the Pitcairners and the protection of their remaining rights; 
that the recommendation by the Administrator in respect of a money Bill be required before the Bill is passed by the Legislative Assembly; 
that moneys shall not be lent to Norfolk Island by the Commonwealth except with the agreement of Norfolk Island; 
that members of the Legislative Assembly be elected by a method of proportional representation, the whole of Norfolk Island constituting a single electoral division; 
that the taxation and social security legislation of the Commonwealth be extended to Norfolk Island in full; and 
that Norfolk Island be incorporated into an appropriate electoral division of the Commonwealth of Australia, and that Australian citizens resident on the island be enrolled in that electoral division. 
That concludes my explanation of the Opposition's policy towards Norfolk Island. If the Government has the welfare of the people of Norfolk Island in mind, it will accept the Opposition's amendment. If, as I suspect, the Government's sympathies are more with the exploiters of Norfolk Island, it will dismiss the amendment. I appeal to all honourable members with a conscience to vote for the Opposition's amendment. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drummond)Is the amendment seconded? 
-The Opposition is somewhat disturbed by the way in which the amendments to this Bill have been submitted. During the second reading debate last night I made reference to this matter and it must be stressed again that this procedure must be looked at. I accept that a number of the 117 amendments which were given to me the night before last may have been inconsequential but they have caused a lot of problems. There are better ways than this in which to handle amendments. It may well be that the drafting of a new Bill would have been a better proposition. The Minister for Home Affairs  (Mr Ellicott)  has made reference to the Opposition's amendments, but our amendments were made well known to him. 
However, surely 117 amendments is a lot different from the number of Opposition amendments. I am sure that the Clerks of the House are perturbed about it. As I said last night, although they have tried to find ways and means of dealing with the very difficult and complicated task of handling all the amendments, it could never be said that the Opposition has not been cooperative in the attempt to avoid having the business of the Parliament held up to ridicule by the presentation of so many amendments. 
I ask the Minister: How did the members of the Executive Council, who were no doubt privy to the discussions on the amendments, know about them is such detail that the Norfolk Island Press was able to carry details of the proposed amendments last weekend before the Clerks of the House or the Opposition had had access to the amendments? The Oppostion does not find objectionable the amendments to the clauses with which we are dealing. Very few of them are substantive amendments. They do not change the powers of the Legislative Assembly or of the Governor-General although the Administrator's powers have been trimmed in very small fashion. The Opposition is pleased to see that the laws to be made by the Legislative Assembly are to be enactments rather than ordinances. This is more in keeping with the idea of self-government for Norfolk Island. The slight changes in the definition of the 'Territory of Norfolk Island' are also welcome. 
Amendment No. 10 is important. The Oppostion has objected previously to the powers given to the Administrator under this Bill and has argued for a curtailment of those powers. One of the most blatant examples of such excessive administrative power was the provision in clause 1 1 that meetings of the Executive Council could be called only by the Administrator. The Opposition is opposed to an executive council, but if there is to be one - 
-I hope that my time has not been curtailed because of this interruption. I had been saying that clause 1 1, which deals with meetings of the Executive Council, was an important clause and that the Opposition acknowledged the change to that clause effected by the amendments moved by the Minister for Home Affairs  (Mr Ellicott).  We opposed that change in the first instance, but we see it now as at least a step in the right direction. The Opposition does not see the need for the Executive Council but it commends this amendment. 
One of the benefits of adjourning the debate on this Bill until this evening is that people 1,000 miles away are able to listen to some of the debate on this Bill which will affect their future. There is a misconception on the other side ofthe House that the Opposition would have Norfolk Island integrated into the structure of the mainland society. When one rationally compares Labor's proposals for Norfolk Island with those of the Government, there is no basis whatsoever for this misconception. It is not the Opposition but the Government which would clutch Norfolk Island closer to its bosom. This can be seen when the ledger of proposals is examined, and I propose to do that in speaking to the clauses of this Bill. The clauses with which we are now dealing refer to the structure of the island's administration and it cannot be read into any aspect of the Opposition's attitude to this matter that it has a pro-integration stance. It must be acknowledged by all that  Sir John  Nimmo 's proposition that all Australian legislation should apply on Norfolk Island is a pro-integration stance. The Opposition does not adopt that position and it does not support that recommendation. The Opposition is calling only for general Australian legislation to apply- this was probably the major point made by the Minister- in the areas of taxation, social security, and conciliation and arbitration. The main body of Australian law would not apply. Norfolk Island would be free to make its own laws in a far more democratic way under the Opposition 's proposal. 
Under the Government's proposals, there would be far more overseeing and control by the Australian Government and its representative. No law passed on Norfolk Island would be free of Australian veto and many of the laws would be subject to a second veto. The Administrator, an Australian Government official, would have far more arbitrary and unnecessary power under a Liberal Government than he would have under a Labor administration. It is the Liberal Party that refuses to loosen the ties sufficiently which bind Norfolk Island to Australia, except that in this Bill it will allow the Council under certain circumstances to conduct meetings when only a quorum is present. The  Chairman  may be wondering what relevance my remarks have to the clauses we are considering, but I think that I ought to be allowed some leniency because of the complicated nature of the amendments and the way in which they were presented. The alternative is for me to hold up the House for some considerable time by moving amendments which I had not proposed to move. 
Under a Labor government, Norfolk Island would have a Bill of Rights and the Adminstrator's powers would be curbed. Some might say that a plan for Australian social security, taxation and industrial laws to apply on the island would mean the integration of Norfolk Island into Australia. I strongly deny this. The right of Norfolk Island to be free and yet for its people to have an entitlement to Australian social security benefits is a rather clouded issue. To understand that issue requires the question relating to fundamental freedoms to be resolved. That is the situation on Norfolk Island. To argue that employers on Norfolk Island should have freedom to hire or fire their workers free from normal industrial laws and practice is something with which I will deal later. It abrogates the rights of workers to decent standards of industrial life. I have nothing further to say in regard to the clauses concerned. I have made reference to a few of them. Perhaps it will minimise the participation in the debate on further clauses. The Opposition does not oppose the clauses. 
I did not propose to take up the time of the Committee any further; however, I am prompted to enter the debate because of the erroneous proposition that the Minister for Home Affairs  (Mr Ellicott)  put to the Committee. The fact is that business registrations increased over the last two years. It is wrong to say that the number is diminishing. 
We are not talking about fees. We are talking about the fact that company registrations have in fact increased. I raised this matter last night. It is all right to talk about taxation evasion and to be pedantic about words. But that is not what we are talking about. The fact is that lurks and perks are available to individuals who want to exploit them. The Minister has not satisfied the Opposition that tax evasion is not still taking place. In 1978 I drew the attention of honourable members to the fact that $30m went in and out of Norfolk Island during one day. 
I have made the point. I want to put to the Committee - 
The point obviously has not sunk in as far as the Minister is concerned. The arrogance that you display in some areas - 
-This clause provides the Australian Government with a retrospective veto over any ordinance previously assented to by the Island 's Administrator. It is an amazing clause. It invades and negates any supposed power devolution contained in the Bill. It provides an Australian veto over any ordinance passed by the Norfolk Island Legislative Assembly. It is the sting in the tail of this legislation. The Norfolk Islanders and their representatives were assured by the Minister for Home Affairs  (Mr Ellicott)  on 8 May last that: 
The Government proposes that the Assembly have complete legislative power and executive control over (the matters listed in the schedules), subject to a right of veto by the Administrator in respect of education, immigration, customs services and fishing. 
There is no argument about that. That statement cannot be reconciled with the Bill. Clause 23 contradicts that statement. Either the Minister deliberately misled the people of Norfolk Island or the Bill is not as he required. Either the Bill is wrong or the Minister is wrong. 
Clause 23 specifically allows the GovernorGeneral to disallow or recommend amendments to any ordinance assented to by the Administrator during the previous six months. It does not allow the Governor-General to disallow or to amend ordinances to which the GovernorGeneral has previously assented. This means that only ordinances concerned with Schedule 2 and Schedule 3 matters are subject to this retrospective veto. These are specifically the ordinances over which the Minister assured the islanders of 'complete legislative power and executive control'. In relation to Schedule 3 matters, where the Administrator already possesses what the Opposition believes to be a necessary veto, clause 23 is not so important. This is because the Administrator may only exercise his or her veto under ministerial instruction. It is unlikely that a Minister would allow assent to an ordinance, only to later decide that a mistake had been made and demand of the GovernorGeneral a disallowance or amendment. However, Clause 23 provides the only veto to ordinances concerning the list of matters that comprises Schedule 2. This veto is retrospective and therefore open to criticism. It is unnecessary. It applies mainly to matters of only municipal concern. I has not been made clear because the Minister gave the people of Norfolk Island to understand that no such veto would exist. 
The Opposition calls for the exclusion of clause 23 from the Bill. Labor believes that there is no need for a vice-regal veto of municipal matters, particularly when the only likely circumstance in which the Governor-General would act in this way is under the advice of his Executive Council, that is, under Cabinet direction. The Minister might argue that this clause is merely the expression of the Regal prerogative to disallow Bills. That it is a formalism, and expected never to be used. Labor finds this justification empty. Australia and its territories are hamstrung by such vice-regal prerogatives. They are relics of a bygone age. The tide of history is surely with us in arguing for a more rational approach to democracy. The Labor Party finds that the Minister has misled the people of Norfolk Island. We do not agree with his actions. We think that what he has done is wrong. I call on the Minister to explain to the Parliament, to Australia and to Norfolk Island why he did this. The Minister cannot sidestep this issue. It is printed in black and white in his speech delivered to the people of Norfolk Island on 8 May. We find that speech in the  Hansard  of 1 1 May. He promised complete legislative powers and Executive control. Yet the provisions of clause 23 do not conform with that statement. 
I would like to point out for the benefit of honourable members that the Opposition's amendments still provide that the Governor-General may introduce an ordinance dealing with the raising and expenditure of revenues. The amendments would prevent only the making of such an ordinance despite the wishes of the Legislative Assembly. The Governor-General having introduced such an ordinance, the Legislative Assembly may see fit to pass it. But the prerogative should rest with the Legislative Assembly. 
-The Opposition does not oppose the amendments. We agree that the amendment which has just been mentioned is a worthy amendment. We support it. Further to that, we do not object to any ofthe other amendments. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Clauses, as amended, agreed to. 
Proposed new clause 6 1a. 
I move: 
That the following new clause be inserted in the Bill: 
Page 19, after clause 61 insert the following new clause: 61a. (1) There shall be a Conciliation and Arbitration Commission of Norfolk Island, constituted by a member of the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission designated by the  President  of the last-mentioned Commission. 
There shall be an Industrial Court of Norfolk Island, constituted by a Judge of the Australian Industrial Court designated by the Chief Judge of the last-mentioned Court. 
The Conciliation and Arbitration Act 1904, subject to such exceptions, modifications and adaptations as are prescribed, applies in the Territory by force of this section- 
in relation to- 
disputes (including threatened, impending or probable disputes) as to industrial matters relating to industries carried on in the Territory; and 
situations likely to give rise to such disputes; and 
in relation to the registration of organisations in the Territory.'. 
The Opposition proposes to move that a further clause- clause 61a- be added to the Bill. The clause is to establish a conciliation and arbitration system for the island. It is absolutely necessary that such a system be established. It is imperative because the present lack of scrutiny over industrial relations allows the island's employers to rip off the employees to a shocking extent. At present companies and employers on the island operate free from any controls in respect of sick leave, annual leave, long service leave and pay, superannuation, margins for overtime or unclean work, and termination of service. There is no workers' compensation. I understand that some proposition in relation to it has been canvassed, but whether or not that has reached fruition it seems to me from an examination of some of the material I have at my disposal that the situation is certainly not satisfactory. There is no unemployment benefit. There is no necessity for women to be paid the same amount as men doing the same work. 
The administration on the island- that is, the Australian Public Service on the island- has progressed beyond this pre-industrial revolution stage. It offers superannuation, workers' compensation and equal pay. Administration salaries are more than 90 per cent of those earned in any equivalent positions in Australia, with the bonus of being tax free. These discrepancies, which are a result of the actions of those people on the island who manage, own and control the business interests there, have led to considerable friction on the island between public servants and their brothers and sisters in private employment. People on the island in private employment labour under more than just the burden of the absence of controls over their conditions. They also work for little more than a pittance. 
During my address at the second reading stage last night I said that there have been cases of workers receiving as little as $70 a week for 48 hours work. If one had listened last night to the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  one would have thought that people were swimming across from Australia to grab hold of the jobs. A similar situation exists on Norfolk Island as pertains in many areas of Australia. The fact is that unemployment, whether it be exported from Norfolk Island to the mainland or from Victoria to Western Australia, has a hidden component. Social disruption takes place because the young people either have to leave the island to go to the mainland to get unemployment benefit or endeavour to place themselves in the dole queue to get whatever might be available to them from this Government. It might be funny for the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Yates)  but it is not very funny for the young people who come from the island. 
I do not want to take up the time of the Committee any further. The Minister for Home Affairs  (Mr Ellicott)  continually misrepresents the Opposition's position on this matter. The taxation aspect to which he referred would not apply to the individuals who would need to be protected. A basic wage at least is needed. I can see somebody shaking his head but I intend to say this. A minimum wage needs to be determined by independent people and it ought to apply. This should not happen at the whim of the Minister or ofthe employers but it should be determined by somebody who is competent to take an independent position in relation to this matter. He should take into account the information that flowed from the Treadgold- Gates inquiry. 
The Minister talked about the customs of the Pitcairners. The point has been made once again that they are assisted by their own people. The fact is that that no longer applies to the same extent. It may reach the point where the Government might wake up one day and commend the people who assist. People should have thenindependence so that they can go and shop or do what they want to do. That ought to be right. It should not be offered in a patronising way by the Government or by the Assembly on the Island. That ought to be the right of the people. I refer now to the formation of unions. The Minister raised the question of unemployment. Unemployment is exported to Australia. That is undeniably true. People come to Australia because jobs are not available on the Island. The formation of unions seems to be the only way the Government can allow a system to prevail where those people who want to be organised can be organised to protect their own positions. They will not have to accept once again what is handed out to them by grace and favour. 
Proposed new clause negatived. 
Remainder of Bill- by leave- taken as a whole. 
-The Opposition does not object to these amendments. We find each of them more acceptable than those parts of the Bill which they replace. There are several individual amendments to which I would like to make quick reference for the record. The new clause 65a allows the Governor-General, acting on the advice of the Attorney-General, to grant pardons, remissions or respites and to overturn any penalties imposed under any law in force on Norfolk Island. This clause somewhat mystifies me. It implies that the Government has little faith in the judicial system which it is setting up on Norfolk. It implies that the Government has little faith in its current judicial arrangements for the island. It is normal practice that the head of government has the power to allow pardons and remissions and, in this case, the head of Norfolk's government is the Australian GovernorGeneral. Normally that head of government would receive advice from the lower echelons of government. It does not seem to be provided in this case. 
Amendment 106 is also worthy of comment. It has the effect that an item may be deleted from Schedule 2 and inserted into Schedule 3, but with the approval of the Legislative Assembly. This is acceptable to the Opposition. The remainder of the amendments to clauses 66 to 76 are not objected to by the Opposition. It also recognises the wish of the people of Norfolk Island, hoping that within five years the Australian Labor Party amendments will find their way into the Bill and the devolution of further powers to the island government will be achieved. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report- by leave- adopted. 
-With all due respect,  Mr Chairman,  I have no idea what the amendment says. It was never forwarded to the Opposition. This is in keeping with the attitude that prevails. I just have not read the amendment. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the Poker Machine Control (Amendment) Ordinance 1 979 ( No. 7 of 1 979 ), made under the Seat of Government (Administration ) Act 19 10, be disallowed. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Home Affairs. Is it his intention, hi his capacity as Minister responsible to Parliament for the Australian Film Commission, to attend the Cannes Film Festival on the French Riviera during his overseas trip? Is it a fact that the  Chairman  of the Australian Film Commission will be going to Cannes? Is it also a fact that the marketing officer and the public relations officer of the Film Commission will be in Cannes at the same time, as well as the Film Commission's representative in the United States? At a time when the Government is drastically cutting public expenditure, will the Minister agree that it is totally irresponsible for so many senior officers of the Film Commission to be in Cannes at the same time? 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That this House is of the opinion that the work proposed on land within the Parliamentary zone, included in the 66th series of variations to the plan and lay-out of the City of Canberra and its environs dated 16 October 1978, should not be proceeded with unless the proposal is approved by resolution of each House of the Parliament in accordance with sub-section 5 ( 1 ) of the Parliament Act 1974. 

 -Mr Speaker I will begin this debate with this quotation: 
As long as we live in a free society, these difficulties of industrial relations will not be removed by governmental decree. In a free society there are marked limits on the efficacy of coercion. 
Those are not the words of a trade union spokesman deeply involved in one side of an industrial dispute, the comment of an Opposition  speaker  in the industrial area, or the thoughts of a worker involved in a dispute with his employer. They are the words of  Mr Justice  Staples of the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, delivered on 20 April 1979 in a matter involving Australia Post and a dispute over postal drivers. It is relevant to this debate because the so-called no work, no pay' direction was applied in a matter involving Australia Post and the Union of Postal Clerks and Telegraphists which has been before  Mr Justice  Staples on a number of occasions. Later I will quote  His  Honour again in relation to this case. This learned gentleman, who could never be accused of trade union militancy or radicalism, will be seen to be most critical of Australia Post's role as an employer. 
I expect that the remarks I quoted at the beginning, which were part of a lengthy criticism of 
Australia Post's industrial relations, were the culmination of several hearings in which the employers' attitudes had been exposed. Those attitudes frustrated the man in the middle who was attempting to find a responsible solution. I will expand on the common sense of my opening remarks. His Honour said:   . . these difficulties of industrial relations will not be removed by governmental decree. In a free society there are marked limits on the efficacy of coercion. 
That remark is obviously true and logical. Yet, despite those lucid remarks by His Honour, this Government has based its entire industrial relations policy on the very antithesis of that common sense. The Government is responsible for the situation which has arisen. Its policy is based wholly and solely on coercion by governmental decree. Significantly, that policy has not resolved one dispute; on several occasions it has exacerbated disputes. I have told this House before, and I repeat it now, that in only one area has this Government shown consistency and that is in its belief that in 100 per cent of industrial disputes the employer is absolutely correct and the trade union movement absolutely incorrect. That is a remarkable record. 
On the basis of simple logic there are two sides to every dispute. One might have thought that in just one or two disputes the employer might have done something wrong. But no! The employers and bureaucrats remain blameless. I too might suggest that the law 'there are two sides to every dispute' does not apply to industrial disputes but for reasons different from those of the Government. Employers and employees confront each other within the framework of the Conciliation and Abritration Commission. When it suits the Government it talks about the umpire, and when it does not suit the Government it moves outside its jurisdiction into the common law area. That is what it has done in this case. The Government, in its commitment to the private sector, on every occasion supports those who own and control the means of production in this country. The Government, in its commitment to destroy the public sector, supports crushing and browbeating the Public Service and applies threats and draconian legislation when public servants are forced to take industrial action. 
The 'no work, no pay' directive is part of this program. It lines up alongside the Commonwealth Employees (Employment Provisions) Act 1977, the Conciliation and Arbitration Act (No. 3) 1977 and section 45D of the Trade Practices Act in the Government's armoury of anti- worker legislation and the Government's tactics. In law there are grave doubts about the 'no work, no pay' threat. I will return to this matter later. More disturbingly, 'no work, no pay' is a euphemism for not paying workers who are on the job and who are carrying out 99 per cent of their normal duties. In March the union of Postal Clerks and Telegraphists imposed bans on certain duties in an attempt to resolve three longstanding issues over which the employer was, as usual, equivocating. These bans were designed to have no effect on Australia Post's service to the public. All Post Offices could have functioned adequately. When employees refused to sign certain documents which technically were part of their work some were told that the 'no work, no pay' formula would apply to them. The 'no work' part of that formula was applicable to only a very small part of the overall job. 
The Deputy Post Master at Dandenong, Victoria, is responsible for the day to day running of the office which has a staff of 72. On 30 March, two days after the bans commenced, he declined to sign the weekly statement of office transactions and was informed that the formula 'no work, no pay' applied to him from 12.22 p.m. He received no notification in writing to this effect and continued to do his normal duties. He continued to provide a normal relationship with the District Manager's office; he was asked for information relating to a whole range of matters affecting his Post Office; he received a normal amount of correspondence from the Divisional Manager's office; and he remained responsible for the 72 staff performing their duties. His employer made no attempt to remove him from office, or to remove from him any of his responsibilities. No attempt was made to remove authority delegated to him as Deputy Post Master. The only change was that he stopped receiving any pay. He performed all but one small aspect of his duties but he received no pay. A postal clerk at Pingelly, Western Australia, is another example of a man who performed 99 per cent of his duties without pay. Time does not permit me to give many examples. 
All this relates to the Government's unrelenting attempts to create an anti-union, anti-worker atmosphere in this country. The three major requests which led to the bans were most responsible and reasonable. Had Australia Post not equivocated and shown no sincere interest in setding the dispute the bans would not have been applied. These three matters reflect on problems caused for workers by this Government's unreal and unjustified staff ceilings within the Public Service. One involves overtime worked beyond the standard hours of 36% per week. Australia Post insists that members of the Union of Postal 
Clerks and Telegraphists must work 38 hours before receiving overtime. In other words workers on a 36% hour week were asked to perform 1  V*  hours overtime without pay. I wonder whether anyone else would do this? I suggest that it is unreasonable and that the national law decrees that no worker should be asked to perform  VA  hours overtime without pay. After lengthy discussions the attempts of the Union fell to the ground. It was unable to obtain any satisfaction from the Postal Commission. 
Let us consider the last aspect of the dispute. Again the Government has created a situation for Australia Post and its employees that goes outside the Arbitration Commission. When the umpire does not give a decision in favour of the Australian Postal Commission it is stood over by the Government and told to apply this 'no work, no pay' philosophy.  Mr Justice  Staples spelt out clearly and unequivocably that the Postal Commission acted in an irresponsible way. The people on the other side of this House, the Government of this country, were hell-bent on creating a confrontation so that they could make small political capital out of it. This was attempted in order to create an atmosphere for the election campaign in Victoria. But it failed. It failed miserably. If the Postal Commission takes the law into its own hands there will be an equal and opposite reaction. The 'no work, no pay' principle cannot be justified. The real title for the principle ought to be 'slavery'. It is a grade below the normal wage slavery that is inherent in the philosophy of the Fraser Government. It is a precedent that must be stopped now in the interests of all working people and those who use the postal services. 
-I would like to deal with one or two matters raised by the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Falconer).  The honourable member put to the House that public servants would be angry if the Opposition saw fit to use any of the forms of this House to delay the passage of the Commonwealth Employees (Redeployment and Retirement) Bill. The honourable member guaranteed that the passage of this Bill would not ring the death knell for career public service. He also pointed out that there are comprehensive appeal provisions in the Bill. That is a load of hypocritical claptrap. In the first instance, if the Government were serious about the principle of a career public service, it would have introduced the voluntary retirement provisions as a first measure. It would have done that if it felt that the Public Service was not keeping pace with the availability of employment either now or in the future. In effect, that would have been the way to go about it, but the Government is not fair dinkum. It wants to apply the same philosophy it has applied in endeavouring to bring employees to heel both in the private and public sectors of the community. 
The Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, who is sitting at the table, said That's a good philosophy'. That is typical of his union bashing concept. The individual whom he craves after- the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is precisely the same. The philosophy is spelled out chapter and verse in this legislation. It is inbuilt in it. 
The Minister took money off the unions for years and he sent them down the drain; so much for maintaining the principle of permanent career service recruitment. A person had to qualify for employment in the Public Service. Employees were guaranteed a career, a service they would render in the interests of all citizens of this country. But following the passage of this Bill a whole range of other conditions will apply in retrospect which were never anticipated by people who sought a career in the Public Service. This Bill will affect not only those who are sick or those who can no longer carry out their jobs. Efficient officers of the Public Service will be dismissed. A rose by any other name; call it what you may. This Bill is called a redeployment and retirement Bill but it is the sack in anybody's language if the end result is the same. I will illustrate the effectiveness of the so-called appeal provisions and the fallacy that is involved in them. The provisions demand that an employee dob in his or her work mate for the sack. It is a competition of toe the line, be a noncontroversial, non-original officer in policy and administration work. The philosophy in this Bill is in keeping with the philosophy in other Bills that has been spelled out and spat out by individuals on the Government side of the House. Deceit and deception have been served up to the trade union movement and other employee organisations in this country. For instance, I would like to quote from a letter signed by the Prime Minister and sent to - 
It is a circular that was sent to  Mr B.  Gradwell, the Federal Secretary of the Council of Australian Government Employee Organisations. It is signed by Malcolm Fraser. One paragraph is headed 'Employment Levels and Job Security'. That is a beauty! Paragraph (a) reads: 
It has been our express policy - says Malcolm- to avoid retrenchments and this will continue. 
-by leave-The Opposition welcomes the announcement that a wide-ranging, major inquiry into the Australian Broadcasting Commission is to be held. Over the last 12 months the Opposition has been calling for such a major review and has suggested that it ought to be a royal commission. The Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  warmed to that suggestion although in this chamber on 9 May he denied that he had said any such thing about an inquiry. Yet, on 2 June last year he said that he believed that it may be better to give it the status of a royal commission. 
Yes, but the ABC is not to get a royal commission. The Minister has bowed to the views of his more senior colleagues who might have a vested interest in the inquiry. Be that as it may, the Opposition welcomes the fact that at least it is a move in the right direction. We are to get a wide-ranging inquiry with broad terms of reference. Those broad terms of reference are pleasing to those who rightly feared a secretive, limited witch hunt by this Government against the ABC. If it was his influence that did that, the Minister must be commended. At least it opens the whole range of options within the area of the inquiry. The Opposition seeks clarification and reassurance on a number of matters outlined in the Minister's statement. There has been no review of the role of the ABC or its structure since it was established in 1932. Therefore, this inquiry is of particular importance. It will set the pattern for future periodic reviews as outlined in the Green report. 
First, this inquiry must set the precedent that the public will be able not only to lodge written submissions but also to present verbal evidence to the three-member committee at public, informal inquiries. Surely that is a healthy sign after the experience of some of the recent inquiries, when some of the major television companies brought along their legal eagles, swamped the inquiry and compromised people in what they may have put before the inquiry. The result was predictable under those sorts of pressures. The Minister's announcement is a breath of fresh air. Let us hope and trust that the inquiry will be an inquiry of a different nature. 
Secondly, ABC staff members should be assured that they will be able to present evidence to the inquiry without prejudice to their careers within the ABC. I raised this issue last night when the House debated the issues involved in the Commonwealth Employees (Redeployment and Retirement) Bill. Difficulties arise when people appeal against transfer to other areas. It might well be said that unless such issues are brought within the ambit of that legislation it will not be effective. I am saying that the legislation would not be applicable in this situation. The point is that the Government has applied pressure. The Government did this in the telecommunications field and in other areas where it has direct influence. 
I would hope and trust that the Minister, who perhaps has had a track record commensurate with the principle we wish to see applied, will ensure that staff members of the ABC are able to present their submissions in a free and unfettered way without pressures being applied, and that they are able to be objective. If this is not done the Government will be inviting a conflict with the organisation that represents the people concerned. I think that is an assurance that the Minister ought to be obligated to give to this Parliament and to the individuals concerned- those employees of the ABC who would have the courage and the experience to apply themselves and present submissions to the inquiry for the purpose of maximising the effect and obtaining the best results. 
Thirdly, the inquiry should be afforded sufficient funds and support facilities to discharge its functions adequately. Secretariat staff for the inquiry should not be drawn from the already depleted ranks of the ABC unless staff ceilings are eased and moneys for extra salaries are available. That is a very important aspect because the operations of inquiries can be constricted. The Minister for Post and Telecommunications would readily concede that some of the reports made to this Parliament and the inquiries that are held are restricted in some terms by virtue of the fact that sufficient facilities are not available to them. 
Finally, there should be no attempt through this inquiry to consign the ABC to the role that the commercial lobbies, the Federation of Australian Commercial Television Stations and the Federation of Australian Radio Broadcasters have long sought. The ABC should not be relegated to minority programming for a cultural elite. Its statutory responsibility denned in section 59 of the Broadcasting and Television Act is that it shall provide 'adequate and comprehensive programs and shall take in the interests of the community all such measures as, in the opinion of the Commission, are conducive to the full development of suitable broadcasting and television programs'. 
Some of the best programs, artists and those who have been most competent to present programs, particularly children's programs, have been squeezed out. Like other artists in this country, Australians in the television industry have been forced overseas to gain recognition and be a part of the overseas production of children 's programs that are sold at exorbitant rates in this country. I hope and trust that those involved- such as Michael Howson and others who have contributed for many years; as well as scriptwriters who have had long experience in children's programs- will take advantage of this inquiry and participate for the purpose of doing something that has been lacking in the inquiries that have been undertaken to date. 
I was a member of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Specific Learning Difficulties. The evidence that was put before that Committee ought to be taken into account by the proposed new inquiry when it is dealing with the educational content of programs, in particular children's programs. That evidence showed clearly that there is a screaming demand for a lot more to be done in that area. Instead of children watching programs that have for their end result violence and other elements from which we believe our children should be directed, a whole new horizon would be before them. I sincerely hope and trust that the inquiry takes notice of that evidence. 
The principles contained in the declaration of section 59 must be maintained. This inquiry will also be the first opportunity to spell out fully the relationship of the ABC with other sectors of broadcasting, especially the Governmentdirected Special Broadcasting Service. Now before the Parliament is the matter of a domestic satellite system. Let us hope and trust that the inquiry involves itself in this matter and that the philosophy that justifies the existence of the ABC will continue in the event of a domestic satellite system. I understand that such a system is in the mind of the Minister. He has some obsession about it. Let us hope that it will not act to the detriment of the ABC. Close attention must be paid to the role of the commissioners and their appointment procedures. Their relationship with ABC management should be clearly defined. 
If the Government notes these concerns that the Opposition has expressed, an inquiry will lay the basis for a vital national broadcasting service able to meet the challenges of the 1 980s and able to accept new responsibilities and functions. It will then be more than an inquiry, structured in time, not merely to defuse an issue that I believe should not be relevant. That question should not be injected into the inquiry. This Government's savage treatment of the ABC will not be defused simply by the areas of the inquiry. It ought to take on board all the problems and all the difficulties that the Opposition sees and some of the problems that might arise. I have some confidence in the ability of the Minister for Post and Telecommunications to ensure that the philosophy behind what has been engendered in terms of the inquiry will take it to its successful conclusion. 
-The point being made by Opposition speakers is that the phrase 'for any other prescribed reason' should be spelt out. Once that is done, the onus will be placed on those individuals who will determine the appeals. That phrase is a far cry from the expression 'any reasonable cause to dismiss'. As I pointed out previously in the second reading debate, the whole issue relates to individuals being dismissed not because they are incompetent, not because they are sick and not because they cannot involve themselves or proceed to another area of work; they will be dismissed notwithstanding the fact that they are efficient. If ceilings are applied in any area in any department, efficient employees can be dismised. Let me state the Opposition's point. If an appeal is dismissed, the body doing so must surely justify its decision by saying that the individual concerned has not the capacity to perform his duties. The amendment put forward by the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  sets out the criteria upon which the appeals will be determined. Clause 15 - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  I wonder whether the honourable member will let me comment on the fact that the 
Opposition has amendments to clause 15 which deals with appeals. 
If you will bear with me,  Mr Deputy Chairman  - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  I have now for three minutes. I ask the honourable gentleman to return to the clause which does not deal with appeals. 

 - Mr Deputy Chairman, you might have paid the same attention to the Minister when he talked about appeals. 
-On the question of appeal, all the humbug that has been put to the Committee this evening by the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  does not detract from the philosophy behind the right of appeal. The fact is that an individual who has been declared - 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- No, I did not put it. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- I proposed one half of the question, but I did not put it. 
The honourable member for Holt is wrong again. I put it to the Committee that the processes of appeal are to be condemned but the principle behind the lead-up to the appeal is to be even further condemned. As the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  put it, an appeal does not lie against decisions relating to a class of excess staff. That is a prerogative of the head of the department. On the basis of the way in which the appeal system is set in train, when dealing with a class, one is dealing with a range of employees. But once the area is opened up and the appeal system is allowed to operate when one individual is competing against another, it is unreal to try to dissociate the exercise from the realities at the job level. Everybody would be looking sideways at everybody else, knowing full well that further staff cuts, redeployment, compulsory retirement imposed as a result of the Government's Budget strategy might well be around the corner. Certainly it is the prerogative of the Government to impose such restrictions, but it then moves into a situation where outside pressures apply. People have to work in that environment, and we would have the situation of an individual looking at the person alongside him, a person with the same qualifications, the same capacity to maximise the operations of that area of the department, and he would have to protect his own interests. The end result should not involve legalities. The Minister has talked about his involvement in industrial matters taken on behalf of unions. If that is the case, he should look to the conciliation area of the Act, which precludes legalities being raised, and deal with the mundane areas of trying to resolve the dispute. 
We are looking at an environment in which one section of employees is in confrontation with the employer. The dispute cannot be resolved simply by imposing a series of legal procedures. The Government has indulged in those tactics for months and months, and once again it has fallen to the ground. The Industrial Relations Bureau is a classic illustration of an appeal situation getting people to a point where one employee appeals to the judiciary because there is a confrontation.  Mr Justice  Smithers tore to smithereens the Industrial Relations Bureau area. It seems to me that the same philosophy runs through this appeal system. The Government is creating the sort of environment that leads to what in the final analysis is an appeal. To whom would employees be appealing? There will be a representative of the employees and a representative of employers. The third representative will be the nominee of the Government. Everybody has been able to see what happens when pressures are applied. Ministers come to this table and argue clearly that no pressure is applied to statutory authorities or to the individuals involved in running the day-to-day business of those authorities. But if one looks behind that, there is all the evidence in the world to show that, in the final analysis, the influence of the Government prevails. This matter is all about staff ceilings, restricting the Public Service not because people are inefficient but because the Government wants to get rid of them. The sack by any other name achieves the same result. The individual finishes up outside. As I said last night, he will be hanging out like granny's teeth. With the rest of the unemployed, he will be thrown on the scrap heap. When he cannot find a job, he will try to stand up with dignity and decorum and face his family. Whichever way the Minister twists and turns, that is what this legislation is all about. All the flowery mumbo jumbo of the Minister will not alter the situation. That will be the end result. As to the appeal system, the Minister will stand up in a minute and go through all the clap-trap about how everybody stands equal before the tribunal, how if one individual nominates another person he has a right to go back into the appeal system, and off he would go again. As the honourable member for Port Adelaide said, if he is not caught on the first go, he will be caught on the next. The Minister knows what the industrial jungle is all about and he knows that what I am saying is absolutely true. If an employer sets out to get somebody within the terms and conditions of an award, he will get him. The only thing that has protected individuals in the Public Service has been the guarantee of permanency. When we reflect on the whole system therein lies the evil concept of this Bill. At the expense of boring the Minister I must say this again: The Government should be serious in endeavouring to come to grips with a growing problem. The Opposition has indicated that there is a problem. The shadow Minister has not side-stepped the issues concerned. He has tried to put them into perspective and indicate how we ought to approach the whole issue. So let us not put this aura of respectability over it. Instead, let us confront the problems and the associated issues. If the Government were serious about bringing about voluntary retirement that alone is what it would have done. It would not have wrapped all these penal provisions around this legislation. It should not have needed to do that. However, having done it and having seen the effects it should have had an objective look at what should necessarily follow. 
However, in accordance with the Government's philosophy in all areas of the economy, the Government now is appealing to a working class elite. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)-The  honourable member will return to the clause of the Bill. 
-If the effect is related to the appeals clause spelt out in the Bill, to which the Opposition is totally opposed, what I am saying is most relevant. I will conclude by saying that there were other ways of going about this. The sting in the tail is that the so-called appeal provisions are not worth the paper they are printed on. 
-The philosophy of members of the little group sitting opposite was demonstrated on television this evening when we saw them spitting out their hatred of the working people in this country. Their attitude is typified by what the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde)  has said in this debate. When he and the honourable member for Perth  (Mr McLean)  return to Western Australia and confront their constituents about their advocacy of increased taxes, they will get a decent old serve from here on. What arises out of this issue is the inevitable position - 
I will be here after the next election and you will not. The attitude of the honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem)  typifies the issue before us. Haslem 's attitude towards Canberra's unemployed - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drummond)Order! 

-I withdraw that. He is the honourable member for Canberra. The criticism levelled against the unemployed by an individual such as that is absolutely obnoxious. To say that people under 24 years of age should not receive the dole is the most insensitive statement one could ever possibly imagine. It arises from the concept of a pool of unemployed put forward by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Carlton),  the honourable member for Perth, the honourable member for Moore and the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Bradfield)-  the geniuses of this new age, the new messiahs who want to relegate people to the dole scrapheap. When they get these people there they want to squeeze them even further. These honourable members want to take away from people the fundamental right to exist and to provide for themselves and their families on $50 a week. To them $50 a week is far too good for unemployed people. They are saying to these people: 'You can eat the grass or whatever else you like '. 
The honourable member for Canberra in his Mugga Way home, with his $20,000 Mercedes 
Benz, his interest in Peppers takeaway foods and Matildas Tavern in Canberra, blithely tells people that they should not receive the dole if they are under 25 years of age. This is the attitude of this individual, who has been pressed by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to divest himself of such trappings as the $20,000 Mercedes Benz. The Prime Minister has encouraged him to exchange it for a more publicly acceptable Holden Statesman. The honourable member blithely makes all these irresponsible statements, adding insult to injury. 
That is the state of mind of those on this back bench committee- the brains trust. They are a pack of imbeciles that you would not send for the  Herald.  The reality of life is beyond their comprehension I cannot imagine the people in their electorates falling for them again. It is hard to comprehend the depths of degradation to which they sink before they fight back. People have a right to expect at least survival rations from society when society forces them on to the scrap heap. That is what honourable members opposite have done. Our fine friend, the great economist, the honourable member for Ballarat  (Mr Short- he is not here tonight; he is probably stunned by the reaction to his speech- said it is not entirely correct that increased taxes and decreases in public spending are the answer. That is a profound statement. He should have been a detective. He said there is another attitude- a combination of both. For God's sake! What is the end? The fact is that in our society the Government has removed the opportunity for many to survive for work. 
The policies expounded by this so-called intelligentsia on the Government back bench is leading us into further unemployment and an aggravation of the situation. The honourable member for Canberra is to be condemned for the statements he made. 
I ask the Prime Minister whether he stated last Sunday: 
The community can be certain of this Government's resolve to keep spending under control. 
Why was responsible control not exercised in the $8m the Government has spent in the past three years on overseas ministerial travel and domestic flights of the Government's VIP fleet? 
-I move: 
That the Poker Machine Control (Amendment) Ordinance 1979 (No. 7 of 1979) made under the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1 9 10 be disallowed. 
This motion to disallow the Poker Machine Control (Amendment) Ordinance is worthy of debate and consideration by the House this day, taking on perhaps a greater importance following the election results in the Australian Capital Territory at the weekend. The motion is of importance to those members and citizens interested in the ideal of government being as close to the people as possible. It is also of considerable interest to the members of the Australian Capital Territory electorate to find social welfare and community interests high amongst their own priorities. The Government and, indeed, the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Ellicott)  have shown a complete disregard for the plights of the people of Canberra and are insensitive to the social and economic problems confronting the unemployed and other socially deprived people in the community. 
On that point or order, one of the major issues involved in the question of disallowing the ordinance is the fact that the funds that have been taken away from the area of responsibility of the Assembly to be dispersed in the community of Canberra have a relationship to the areas to which I have made reference. Now, I am challenging the actions of the Minister. It is his ordinance. It appears that what I am about to say is most relevant. 
-Because of the way in which the Government has handled this matter, I am prompted to protest about the lack of time which the Opposition and, I am sure, some people on the Government benches have had to study the whole program. After adequate time in which to study this program they would have liked to have come back into this chamber and intelligently debated the whole issue of communications that evolves out of proposals such as this. It seems to me that some of the principles involved ought to be examined because there are weaknesses in them. I am not critical of the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  because he is one of those Ministers who fall over backwards to try to give a shadowMinister information in sufficient time to enable him to meet his commitments as a spokesman for the Opposition. I understand that because of a production hold-up, the Minister was not in a position to have the document delivered to me any earlier than it was delivered. But be that as it may, honourable members are forced into speaking on this matter in the permitted time allowed each  speaker  of 15 minutes without a preparation that would justify an examination of such a serious matter. 
The only good purpose the honourable member's head serves is to keep his ears apart. The honourable member for La Trobe makes inane interjections but as far as I am concerned this is a very important matter. 
-I move: 
Clause 6, page 3, omit paragraph (d). 
During the second reading stage I canvassed all the amendments that the Opposition proposes to move to this Bill. However, two or three matters were raised during the debate which I feel it is incumbent upon me to answer. I wish also to say a few things about clause 6 and our amendment, which seeks to delete paragraph (d) from that clause. 
The honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  talked about the great consultation that had taken place between the Government and representatives of the Commonwealth Police Officers Association. In fact he said that the contribution of the Opposition was in conflict with the wishes of the representatives of that Association. For the record I point out that, as a member of the Opposition committee handling this matter, within the last two weeks I have discussed with the  President, Mr Dowell,  the Secretary,  Mr Curtin,  the Treasurer,  Mr Thompson,  and the Vice-President,  Mr Dickinson,  the whole of this legislation. I can assure the honourable member that the Opposition is voicing the opinions expressed before the committee by members of that Association. They totally oppose the proposition contained in clause 6(d). Whilst on behalf of the Opposition I indicated our total opposition to the proposal during the second reading debate, in any event, we had adopted the stance as a matter of principle. For the record, I say that we have carried out full and extensive discussions with representatives of the Commonwealth Police Officers Association and we were in complete accord in our opposition to this particular clause of the Bill. 
As I have indicated, the provisions which we seek to delete relate to the splitting of the Australian Police into two components- a general police division and a protective services division. We are totally opposed to the splitting of Australian Police into two divisions, as are the police themselves. I have canvassed the situation on behalf of the police who sought an invitation to address the relevant committee of the Opposition. They carried out a series of discussions with me and with other Opposition spokesmen in this area. The reasons for their opposition to this proposal are quite clear. A two-component force means a two-class force in which there will be a group of second class officers going under the rather unflattering title of 'protective service officers'. 
The honourable member should try to tell police officers that it does not mean that. Under the provisions of clause 24, officers in the second class are not to be referred to as police officers but as 'protective service officers'. The functions to be undertaken by the protective service division need to be made clear. It was the obsession of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  with the question of terrorism which caused the Prime Minister to introduce the recommendations contained in the report of  Sir Robert  Mark and to accept the proposal for the amalgamation of the two federal forces which the conservative parties so vehemently opposed in 1975. The protective services division has nothing to do with terrorism and very little to do with security. Its main task will be to guard Commonwealth places with low, and in many instances, nil security risks. That division is to be the static guard. The splitting of the force into two forces in this way is not only contrary to the principles which underlie the need for amalgamation in the first place but also it is bad for police morale and efficiency. 
The reason for the Government's proposing the splitting of the force is not clear. It is an aberration on the part of someone. We would not accuse the Minister for Administrative Services  (Mr McLeay)  of having this original idea because, in any case, the proposal was first mooted before the Minister was demoted or elevated, whichever way he likes to look at it, to his present portfolio. The proposal was not discussed with the Police Officers Association before the draft instructions were issued. Despite all the protestations of the police forces, the Government has refused to budge. If this static guard duty is to be undertaken, it can be done by people who are not police officers, or it can be done by police officers who are just normal members of the force, members who are subject to the same promotional opportunities and of the same status as any other police officer. They are trained in the same way and they present themselves for promotion in the same way, so they ought to be in the same promotional line. But they are relegated to a sub-level of occupation in the areas to which I have just referred. 
It is for those reasons that both the Labor Party and the Police Officers Association oppose the provisions of this clause. There is neither rhyme nor reason to the Government's proposals. That is why we have moved our amendment and why we will continue to move amendments to delete all reference to a two-component force. 
-The Opposition opposes clause 7, which is consequential upon clause 6. Clause 7 provides that the members referred to in clause 6 (c) shall comprise a component of the Australian Federal Police performing such of the functions of the Australian Federal Police as are determined, by general orders, to be general police functions. There is also a reference in clause 7 (2) to the persons described in clause 6 (d). I will not canvass again the reasons for our opposition. The Minister for Administrative Services  (Mr McLeay)  has given us guarantees this evening. But the test will be when the duties are defined by the Commissioner in the final analysis. The Minister has given a categorical assurance that there will be no differentiation between the classes of members of the force. I take it that he is also guaranteeing that all members will be trained fundamentally in the same way irrespective of the area in which they might finally be located in the course of performing their duties. This is the question about which the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  was confused, although I think everyone else understood what was being said. It was not merely a question of members receiving fundamental training and then going into specialised areas of police work. It was a question of members going into duties which would not allow them to compete for promotion with other members of the force. If that is the guarantee that the Minister has given to the Committee this evening, the Opposition accepts it for what it is worth. We hope that when the duties are defined he will ensure as the responsible Minister that the principle is maintained. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 8 (Functions). 
I move: 
Clause 8, page 3, lines 36-38, omit 'Commissioner and the Commissioner or Police (however designated ) of that State', substitute 'Minister and the appropriate Minister of that State'. 
This clause deals with the functions of the Australian Federal Police and State police services in relation to the investigation of offences against Commonwealth places under the Commonwealth Places (Application of Laws) Act 1970. However, the Bill enables these arrangements to be made by the Federal Commissioner of Police and State commissioners of police. Clearly there is a question of manpower and resources involved as well as a question of Federal-State relations. Such decisions ought to be taken at ministerial level. I will not canvass the Opposition's proposal. There seems to me to be some confusion arising in the minds of some police officers. It is suggested that there is now some indication by State police that the States are about to take over some of the duties normally carried out by Commonwealth police officers. However, that confusion could be put to rest once again by the Minister replying to me in the way he replied to what I had to say about clause 8 (2). 
-The Opposition opposes this clause. I hope that the Minister for Administrative Services  (Mr McLeay)  does not assume that because of our brief remarks we are not reinforcing what we said earlier in the debate. I point out that this is in line with an arrangement that the Opposition has made with the Government Whip. I am simply saving the time of the Committee by saying only that the Opposition opposes clause 10. 
I move: 
Clause 13, page5, omit sub-clause (2), substitute the following sub-clauses: 
) The Commissioner shall, in the exercise of his func tions, act in accordance with the written directions (if any) given to him by the Minister.  (2A)  The Minister shall cause a copy of every direction under sub-section  (2)  to be laid before each House of Parliament within 6 sitting days of the date of the direction.  (2B)  The Minister shall cause a copy of any direction under sub-section  (2)  to be published in the  Gazelle  not later than 8 days after the date of the direction. '. 
The Opposition's reasons for moving this amendment were canvassed in the second reading debate. However, there are some matters I would like to refer to quickly in support of our amendment. The provisions in clause 13 as it stands are not satisfactory provisions for defining the relationship between the Commissioner of Police and his Minister, nor do the provisions provide for proper accountability of the Minister. The Opposition's view is that whilst the police should enjoy a degree of operational autonomy from the Government, they should be subject to the control and direction of the responsible Minister. Under the Government's proposal the Minister may give directions only as to general policy. The matter which we are most concerned about is the requirement by the Minister to the Commissioner to provide him with information. Under the clause as it stands the Minister cannot require the Commissioner to provide him with particular information. There can be no question of proper ministerial accountability or responsibility unless there is a disclosure. This requires two things. Firstly, the Minister himself must be able to direct the Commissioner to provide him with any information which he seeks. Secondly, if the Minister does not direct the Commissioner he must be publicly accountable for it. Our amendment is based on the 1972 South Australian amendments to the police regulations which stem from the Bright report into the police handling of the moratorium demonstrations, as I pointed out in my speech at the second reading stage. 
The motion that there should be complete police independence from the Government is one which we reject. As was pointed out by  Sir Robert  Mark, the police should normally have operational autonomy. We do not question that. However, this is not to be attained at the cost of removing the principle of accountability to the elected government. There can be no prior restraints placed on the ability of Ministers to direct commissioners of police. Events in many States of Australia in recent years have demonstrated that. Our amendment cures two defects in the Bill: Firstly, the unnecessary restraints on Ministers when directing commissioners of police; and secondly, the lack of accountability to Ministers. If ever we have learned a lesson we ought to have learned one from the position in which the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  finds himself today. The disclosures that should have taken place were not made. Had they been made a number of lives may well have been saved. There is a heavy responsibility on the Minister. We believe that clause 13 as it stands is not satisfactory. Therefore I have moved my amendment. 
I move: 
Clause 14, page 6, lines 4-6, omit 'and determining the respective functions of the components referred to in subsection 7 ( 1 ) and (2)'. 
This amendment is consequential to the amendment moved to clause 6. 
by leave-I move: 
Clause 1 7, page 6, line 36, omit 'Governor-General ', substitute 'Governor-General in Council '. 
Clause 1 7, page 7, line 3, omit 'Governor-General ', substitute 'Governor-General in Council '. 
Clause 17, page 17, line 9, omit 'Governor-General', substitute 'Governor-General in Council '. 
These amendments have the effect of making it quite explicit that the Commissioner and  Deputy  Commissioners of Police are appointed by the Governor-General-in-Council- that is, Cabinet. It also makes it explicit that their terms and conditions are determined by the Government and that they are responsible to the Government. The need, as I have indicated in the second reading debate, was made clear by the notorious Salisbury case. It has had a decent airing today mainly by the South Australian members and me. Four South Australian members participated in the debate. As I have indicated, the Salisbury affair has had a decent airing.  Mr Salisbury  took the view that he was not responsible to the elected Government but to a vague notion, as I have indicated before, which he called the Crown. He was waiting for God to view the relationship between the Police Commissioner and a higher authority. The Mitchell royal commission made clear the position in South Australia that the Commissioner of Police was responsible to the Government of the day. It is also our view and our amendments seek to make that clear. 
-I move: 
Clause 17, page 7, after sub-clause (6) add the following sub-clause: 
) The Commissioner or a Deputy Commissioner may resign his office as Commissioner or as a Deputy Commissioner by writing under his hand delivered to the Minister but the resignation does not have effect until it is accepted by the Minister. '. 
This amendment is to rectify what we regard as a quite stupid omission from the Bill. In Part IV, Division 1, there is no provision for the Commissioner or a Deputy Commissioner to resign. This is an absurdity and our amendment corrects it. The amendment is a slightly modified version of the provision in the Australia Police Bill 1 974. 
I move: 
Clause 28, page 10, lines 32 and 33, omit 'in relation to the component whose functions he is to assist in performing '. 
This amendment is in the same category as the other amendments. 
-The Australian Federal Police Bill represents just one more about-face by this Government from the time when the coalition parties were in opposition. In 1975, the creation of the Australia Police by the Labor Government was vehemently opposed by the conservative opposition. In 1979, a conservative Government has decided that there are benefits in the amalgamation of the Commonwealth and Australian Capital Territory Police Forces. For our part, we have never been in doubt about the advantages which amalgamation would bring, particularly in the area of operational efficiency. However, the creation of a two-component force, with a general police services component and a protective services component, is an aberration which is totally inconsistent with the purposes of amalgamation. Of course, this amalgamation would never have been brought about if it had not been for the tragic Hilton Hotel bombing. The fact that  Sir Robert  Mark was appointed to inquire into the allocation of police resources in the Commonwealth area was an admission by the Government of the inadequacy of the security arrangements for the Commonwealth Heads of Government Regional Meeting in Sydney in February 1978. 
Apart from the suggested amalgamation of the two existing forces, we do not find very much of value in the Mark report. Much of it is unhelpful rhetoric about  Sir Robert  Mark's perception of the role in society of the police or commentary on the Australian Constitution. It needs to be made clear that the creation of a protective services component is not in any way related to counter-terrorism. Counter-terrorist activities will be undertaken by members of the general services component. The members of the protective services component will, in the main, be involved in static guard duty at Commonwealth places of low security risks. The creation of two components will create a two-class force and second class police officers. Under this Bill, members of the protective services component are not even to be called police officers. We are to have commissioned and non-commissioned police officers, and commissioned and noncommissioned protective services officers. Understandably, the Commonwealth Police Officers Association is very concerned about the creation of a two-component police force. We share its concern. This move will have a considerable detrimental effect on police morale and efficiency. We are totally opposed to this splitting of an amalgamated police force into two components and will vote against it both at the second reading stage and in Committee. Any comparison of the 1 975 Australia Police Bill and this Bill can lead only to the conclusion that police are getting a raw deal under this legislation. 
Firstly, let us take the question of the general terms and conditions under which the members of the Australian Federal Police will be employed. Under the 1 975 legislation, the terms and conditions of employment were determined by the Secretary to the Department of Police and Customs with the concurrence of the Public Service Board. The Public Service Arbitration Act was applied without exception to police officers. Under this legislation, the Minister alone will make these decisions. There are provisions requiring the Minister to consult with various people, but these are not worth a pinch of salt. Of course there are elaborate provisions enabling agreements to be made between the Minister and police associations, and for police associations to submit questions relating to terms and conditions to the Police Arbitral Tribunal. We do not object to these provisions, but we do object to the fact that any matter not covered by an Arbitral Tribunal determination will be decided by the Minister alone. 
Regulations made under clause 40(a) will have to be scrutinised carefully. The clause allows regulations to be made which will shackle the rights of the police to organise into associations which are in their best interests and which protect the future of their total membership. It also theoretically allows for the Government to refuse police the right to be heard by the Tribunal by not making regulations at all. We want an undertaking from the Government as to what regulations are intended to be made under clause 40 (a). I understand the framing of these regulations is well under way. I ask the Minister for Administrative Services  (Mr McLeay)  to confirm or deny this. Those regulations already framed should be tabled in the Parliament during this debate. Clearly they are of relevance and should be taken into account. Access should be allowed to members who are going to participate in the debate on the Bill and eventually vote on this Bill. 
Next, there is the question of promotions. Under the 1975 legislation, provisions were spelt out by which appeals could be made to Promotions appeals boards by police officers who considered that they should have been promoted in preference to others. This legislation employs the same criteria to be used in the consideration of promotions, that is, efficiency and seniority. Seniority is relevant only if efficiency between officers is equal. However, there are no provisions in the Bill apart from clause 40 (c) governing the question of appeals to a promotion appeals board against decisions as to promotions. Clause 40 (c) is simply not satisfactory in that it simply provides that regulations may- I emphasise 'may'- be made to provide for these matters. This sort of government by regulation is quite unacceptable. Regulations should be concerned with matters of detail, not matters of substance. We consider the question of promotions and associated appeals to be of great importance, and something which no proper legislation should omit. 
Clause 40(d) allows for early retirement at the age of 55 years to be introduced by regulation for the members of the Australian Federal Police. This is a totally dishonest provision. If the Government intends to bring in provisions allowing for management-initiated retirement along the lines of the Commonwealth Employees (Redeployment and Retirement) Bill, which the police will no doubt oppose, then it should have the guts to legislate for it, instead of taking the coward 's way out and doing it by regulation. We will be moving for the deletion of clause 40 (d) at the Committee stage. 
In clause 39 of the Bill, the Commissioner is given power to transfer to a lower rank or retire members of the Australian Federal Police on the grounds of overstaffing. There is no appeal from these decisions. We would propose to allow such matters to be referred to the Arbitral Tribunal. 
There are other aspects about this matter that the Opposition feels are most unsatisfactory and go to the principles which we opposed in the Commonwealth Employees (Redeployment and Retirement) Bill. If a perfectly fit officer is capable of carrying on in a position, then once staff ceilings are imposed, these officers can be disposed of. If it were in the legislation then it would at least have shown more courage than the introduction of it by regulation. 
The Bill is also unsatisfactory on the question of retirements. As far as the Commissioner and Deputy Commissioner are concerned, there are no legislative provisions governing the resignation of people in these positions. Clause 37 does not apply either to the Commissioner or a Deputy Commissioner. Therefore, as there are no substantive provisions governing resignations of people from these provisions, we are left with the fall-back position of clause 17(4). It provides: 
A person appointed under this section holds office on such terms and conditions (if any) in respect of matters not provided for by this Act as are determined by the Governor-General. 
In every Act of Parliament creating positions of statutory office holders, provisions are made for the resignation of the people in those positions. Clearly, there must be some limitation of the right of a Commissioner or Deputy Commissioner to resign, so that undue disruption is not caused. However, everyone is entitled to resign, and simply to say that any question of resignation will be left to the Governor-General to decide is absolutely absurd. 
The procedure governing the retirement of ordinary members of the force is also unacceptable. Under clause 37, a member of the Australian Federal Police cannot resign unless he has given between three and four months' notice. Whilst the Commissioner is given power to vary this period, it is a ridiculously long period in the first place. Whatever reasons may motivate a police officer to retire, it is not either in his interests or in the interests of the police force as a whole, to require him to wait around for between 3 and 4 months until his resignation takes effect. We will be moving in Committee that this period be reduced to one month, in line with the 1975 Bill. 
We believe that any legislation which does not establish procedures for complaints against the police is so totally defective as to be unacceptable. This question, with the related matter of ensuring that the rights of suspects and accused are not abused by police, is matched in importance only by the question of accountability of the police force to the Minister. The time to provide for these matters is when a force is being established. Entrenched practices die hard. Public confidence in any police force is vital to the success of that force. Accusations of police corruption or malpractice can and do arise. If the only mechanism to investigate these accusations is an internal investigation by the police themselves, the public simply cannot be expected to have confidence in the impartiality of such investigation. One must speak bluntly about this. I refer, the Government to what was done in the recent past in an investigation of one of the forces in this country. It seems to be a contradiction in fact when we read about the mechanisms involved in this Bill. 
As I have indicated, one must speak bluntly about this matter. Whilst the vast majority of policemen and policewomen are totally dedicated, hard working and underpaid, there are and perhaps always will be a minority unwilling to use properly the power given to them by society. Such people must be weeded out for the good of the force and for the good of the community. The Australian Capital Territory Police Force, by an administrative arrangement, established an internal affairs branch in January 1978. The Opposition commends it for establishing that branch, but that was as far as it was possible for the Australian Capital Territory police to go without legislation. In his second reading speech, the Minister said: 
The Government anticipates being able to introduce legislation upon complaints procedure later in the year. 
Clearly the Government will take heed of the advice of  Sir Colin  Woods in this matter. One should bear in mind the extraordinary performance of  Sir Robert  Mark in relation to the English Police Act.  Sir Robert  Mark resigned prematurely in 1 977 in protest against this legislation. He had been responsible for the creation of the A- 10 unit to deal with complaints against the police. Whilst this was a significant advance on what had been the position before, the system allowed only for internal investigation and hence was full of pitfalls. As the report of the Law Reform Commission in 1 978 points out, there is evidence that in some cases A- 10 did not investigate complaints because police commanders sometimes too readily came to the defence of their subordinates.  Sir Robert  Mark's petulant retirement meant that  Sir Colin  Woods was in line for the job of commissioner. The fact that he was passed over gives rise to the suspicion that he shared  Sir Robert's  views about the legislation. In an article on  Sir Colin  Woods in the  Australian  on 1 1 May, John Phillips, reports: 
One of the ideas he is considering is to start a section modelled on Scotland Yard's A- 10 branch'. 
It is most unlikely that  Sir Colin  would make this statement unless he had the support of the Government. If internal investigations, as proposed by  Sir Colin  Woods, have the Government's imprimatur it would appear that a major departure from what everyone expected to be Government policy is being heralded. On the other hand, if he did not have the approval of the Government to make this statement,  Sir Colin  should be carpeted. We make it clear that the setting up of an A- 10 style branch alone is not sufficient. We have had two reports from the Law Reform Commission on this matter- in May 1975 and in June 1978. In addition to the establishment of an A- 10 style branch, the Commission on both occasions has recommended two additional elements necessary to ensure independence and impartiality in the investigation and determination of complaints against police. 
The Law Reform Commission at page VIII of the summary to its 1978 report, spelt out the role of and the need for these additional instruments in the following terms: 
The Ombudsman as 'neutral territory' for the receipt of complaints, as investigator of last resort and as public guardian to require certain public complaints to be scrutinised in a public forum. 
A police tribunal, whose President is a judge, which cun sit to hear charges brought based upon breaches by police of the discipline code. Criminal charges against police will continue to be dealt with in the criminal courts. Many publiccomplaints against police, whilst not involving criminal conduct, arc nevertheless serious matters that should be publicly dealt with. 
These proposals have been accepted by the Australian Capital Territory Police Force, although not, it would appear, by the Commonwealth Police. A rather watered-down version has been introduced into the Northern Territory. We are convinced that the Law Reform Commission's proposals are the best way of ensuring that a proper balance is struck between the need to ensure impartiality in the investigation and determination of complaints on the one hand, and the need to ensure that police morale and efficiency are maintained, on the other hand I shall make reference in the Committee stage to an addendum that should be considered in relation to the point I am making. 
It is outrageous that this legislation should be introduced without provision for complaints against police procedures being incorporated in the legislation. The current furore over the Narcotics Bureau demonstrates that there must be a guaranteed method of independent investigation and determination of complaints against police. 
Indeed, in its 1978 report the Law Reform Commission stressed the need for such a system to apply also to the Narcotics Bureau. The Government has simply sat on that for a year and done nothing about it. The half-baked inquiry initiated by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  would never have been necessary if the Government had acted on the Law Reform Commission's report. Now we find the Minister for Administrative Services  (Mr McLeay)  fobbing off the whole question in this legislation. Despite two reports from the Law Reform Commission, the Minister apparently believes that  Sir Colin  Woods has the answers on this. The Opposition does not believe that he has. 
The other matter which came in for passing mention by the Minister in his second reading speech, was the question of the Criminal Investigation Bill. The Law Reform Commission reported on this matter in September 1975. A Bill was introduced into the Parliament in March 1977. However, that Bill lapsed and nothing further has been introduced. Now the Government, through the Minister, promises us another long delay. In a country without a Bill of Rights, legislation such as the Criminal Investigation Bill is essential. In the recently introduced Customs and telecommunications legislation, the Government decided simply to ignore the Law Reform Commission's proposals. Fortunately, some Government back benchers voted with the Opposition at a legislation committee to prevent the Government riding roughshod over civil liberties, and perhaps that was to its credit. We fear that the Criminal Investigation Bill, if and when it is ever introduced, will resemble the Law Reform Commission's report and draft Bill in name only. Much of the criticism of this legislation was the result of a failure to understand it, and what it did and did not do. The proposals provided for certain general rules by which the police were to abide. If they did not abide by these rules, then the evidence obtained in contravention of the rules would be excluded unless the police could justify the departure from the rules. The legislation did not provide for the automatic exclusion of evidence. 
I want to deal now with what is always a controversial subject in relation to any police forcethe question of ministerial responsibility and direction. This question, which in the State sphere is often bubbling not far from the surface, came to a head in South Australia in 1 977 in the events which lead to the sacking of the Police Commissioner,  Mr Harold  Salisbury. We have since been treated to a book on the subject by a member of the Adelaide establishment, Stewart 
Cockburn. There are two separate questions involved in this. The first is the extent to which Ministers are accountable for the actions of the police. If they are accountable to Parliament, then they must be in a position to obtain full knowledge of those actions. The second question is the extent to which Ministers may direct the actions of the police force.  Mr Salisbury  took the view that he was responsible to some vague, undefined higher authority called the Crown, not to elected politicians. That is a view which has no place in a democratic system. The upper echelons of the South Australian Police Force from 1971 had continuously misled the South Australian Government as to the nature and extent of Special Branch files.  Mr Salisbury,  sworn to uphold the law, was acting in defiance of it 
In South Australia the position as to the relationship between the Police Commissioner and the Minister is absolutely clear as a result of the 1972 amendments to the Police Regulation Act. A Commissioner is subject to government direction, full stop. There is no qualification on this whatsoever. These amendments followed the 1970 moratorium demonstrations and the Bright report into police handling of those demonstrations. There is absolutely no doubt that in South Australia police commissioners must supply whatever information is required by the Minister. In our view, that position is absolutely correct.  Sir Robert  Mark, in his report, made a fairly glib distinction between administrative accountability and operational autonomy. What appears to be the traditional British view on the relationship between Government and the police, of total independence from the elected government, is rejected in Australia. Yet we find  Sir Colin  Woods importing the British view into Australia. Our view is fortified by a comment that he made on 1 1 May. He said: 
Every chief of police in Britain is a very proud, very independent man. He maintains his independence by proclaiming it on every occasion. I think it is of the greatest importance that chiefs of police should have that independence. I would be very sorry if there were some idea that the development of the Federal Police Force in any way threatens that.' 
We, on this side of the House, believe that the total independence of the police force from the Government of the day and, in particular, the need to answer to, and inform that Government, is very dangerous. It cannot be accepted. We do not see Clause 13(2) in its present form as being acceptable. The meaning of directions as to 'general policy' is vague and uncertain. We believe that a government should be able to give to a police commissioner such directions as to the performance of his duties as the government sees fit, provided there is ministerial accountability, the Minister is then responsible to this Parliament. As we have pointed out in relation to the Australian Security Intelligence Organization and Customs legislation, there can be no real ministerial accountability unless there is disclosure. 
The South Australian legislation provides the model for this. It requires both the tabling and the gazettal of any instructions to the Commissioner. In that way, a government must answer for whatever it does. We would place no limits on the ability of a Minister to direct a police commissioner, provided that there was public disclosure. Of course, the Queensland Government has interfered with the police in order to ensure that it carries out government policy, as abhorrent as that policy is. However, there is no principle of freedom of information in Queensland, nor is there any procedure for the public ventilation of complaints against the police. 
Provided that there is an independent review of police actions, the question whether the actions of Ministers in giving police commisioners directions is proper or improper must be decided in the political arena. I stress that, on the South Australian model, which we will be seeking to have incorporated into this legislation, Ministers can give no directions unless they are prepared to answer for those directions publicly. In some siege situations where demands are being made for the release of hostages, surely Ministers must be able to direct commissioners. If hostages were killed, it would be too late for a Minister to say that he was unable to give directions to a commissioner as to how such a situation should be handled. That is absurd. 
People elect governments to make decisions. Governments must answer for those decisions. Our amendments will ensure that the power of governments to make decisions is not limited. They will ensure also that governments answer for those decisions by requiring immediate disclosure of directions to the police. We will also be moving in Committee that all provisions relating to the appointment, promotion and termination of commissioners,  deputy  commissioners and commissioned officers, should specify that it is the Governor-General in Council, not simply the Governor-General, who is to make these decisions. While we believe that it is a desirable practice always to write 'Governor-General in Council', rather than simply 'GovernorGeneral ', into legislation, that is not the reason that we propose it on this occasion. It is rather to reinforce the view that the police are accountable to the elected government of the day, and not to some vague notion, as I have indicated before, of a higher authority called the Crown. 
In this legislation, for some reason best known to the Government, a very purposeful attempt has been made to try to establish the Salisbury relationship between the Police Commissioner and the Government of the day. The purpose for this legitimisation of the Salisbury attitude fascinates me. It appears to be the action of a conservative establishment framework adding another cross member to its superstructure to inhibit and to frustrate attempts at progress and change in our society. For those reasons it is totally unacceptable to the Opposition. Of course, I would be delighted for the Minister to illuminate the Parliament with his reason for the adoption of the Salisbury attitude. I hope that he will respond to that in his reply. 
I also make reference to clause 1 8, sub-clause (3) which I would compare with clause 17, subclause 4. I mention clause 20, sub-clause ( 1 ). I would like the Minister to respond not only on all of the aspects of the Bill to which I have made reference but also on the aspect of the legislation to which I will now refer. Why is it that an acting commissioner shall have not only terms and conditions but also his or her remuneration and allowances set by the Minister? That does not mean that an acting commissioner can receive more or less remuneration than a permanent occupant of the office. Why should not an acting Commissioner receive the same terms, conditions, remuneration and allowances due to a permanent commissioner with the exception of those terms and conditions normally peculiar to an acting occupant of the position? Why should not terms and conditions for the position of acting commissioner and acting  deputy  commissioner be set in the same way as those for the permanent occupants of the positions? 
Finally it must be said that we are disappointed at the appointment of  Sir Colin  Woods.  Sir Colin  has had a distinguished career in England, but his appointment reeks of the colonialism to which conservative governments in this country still cling. The appointment should have been from a State police force or the judiciary. Surely the appointment of  Sir Colin  is an insult to the dedication of the people serving in the police forces in this country? However, we are faced now with a fait accompli. We should ensure that never again is there an appointment as insulting to both Australian police and Australians generally, as that of  Sir Colin  Woods. The Opposition cannot accept this Bill in its present form. For the reasons that I have mentioned, I move: 
That the Bill be withdrawn and re-drafted to provide: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: the Bill be withdrawn and re-drafted to provide for: 
1 ) the creation of a single component force: 
the creation of rights of appeal in relation to transfers, promotions, discipline, demotions, retirements and dismissals: 
the power of appointment and dismissal of the Commissioner to be vested specifically in the Governor-General in Council; 
the conferring in the Minister of more extensive powers of direction of the Commissioner, subject to the requirement that any such directions be tabled in Parliament and gazetted: and 
a system for the independent determination of complaints against police in accordance with the recommendations of the Australian Law Reform Commission'. 
-I move: 
Clause 36, page 13, omit the clause, substitute the following clause: 36. (1) The promotion of a member of the Australian Federal Police to a vacant position or to a position that is expected to become vacant- 
is provisional and without increased salary pending confirmation of the promotion; and 
is subject to appeal as provided by this section. 
A member of the Australian Federal Police who considers that he should have been promoted to a vacant position or to a position that is expected to become vacant in preference to the member provisionally promoted may appeal, in the manner specified in the regulations, against the provisional promotion on the grounds of superior efficiency or of equal efficiency and seniority. 
For the purposes of this section- 
'efficiency', in relation to a member, in relation to a rank, means the possession by the member of special  qualifications and aptitude for the discharge of duties of the kind to be performed by members holding that rank, together with merit, diligence and good conduct; and 
the seniority of members shall be determined as prescribed. 
The Minister may regard an appeal as having been made under this Act on a ground specified in sub-section (2) by a member who, at any time within the time prescribed for lodging an appeal, is absent from Australia on official duty or is absent from duty in prescribed circumstances and in such a case this section has effect as if an appeal on that ground had been received from the member and as if that member had been, at the date of the appeal, performing his duties in the State or Territory in which, immediately before his departure from Australia on official duty or his absence from duty in circumstances so prescribed, as the case may be, he was performing his duties. 
Upon an appeal or appeals being made against a provisional promotion, a Promotions Appeal Board shall make a full inquiry into the claims of the appellant or appellants and the claims of the member provisionally promoted and determine the appeal or appeals. 
The regulations may make provision for and in relation to the conduct of inquiries by Promotions Appeal Boards, including provisions for a Promotions Appeal Board to act as a central Promotions Appeal Board to determine an appeal, or 2 or more appeals in respect of 1 promotion, in a case where all the parties to the appeal or appeals do not perform their duties in the same State or Territory after examining reports made to it by 2 or more other Promotions Appeal Boards and making such further inquiries (if any) as it thinks necessary into the claims of all the parties to the appeal or appeals. 
Where an appeal is allowed, the Minister shall cancel the provisional promotion and promote the appellant to the vacant position or to the position that is expected to become vacant, as the case may be. 
Where there are 2 or more appellants in respect of the one promotion, the appeals shall be determined by the 1 Promotions Appeal Board and that Board shall, if it considers that 2 or more appellants have established the grounds of their appeals, allow the appeal of1 only of those appellants, being the appellant whom it considers to have the best claim to promotion to the vacant position or to the position that is expected to become vacant. 
Where, in respect of a provisional promotion, no appeal is duly made or an appeal has, or appeals have, been duly made but the appeal or each of the appeals has been disallowed or has become inoperative, the Minister shall confirm the provisional promotion. 
10) If, after notification has been made of a provisional promotion to a vacant position or to a position that is expected to become vacant, but before the promotion has been confirmed, the Minister is satisfied that the position is unnecessary or could be filled by the transfer of an excess officer, or that the notification or further notification of the vacancy, or expected vacancy, in the position is desirable, the Minister may cancel the provisional promotion. 
The Minister may cancel a provisional promotion in accordance with sub-section (9) whether or not there has been an appeal against the provisional promotion, and, where the Minister so cancels a provisional promotion, any appeals in respect of the promotion shall be discontinued. 
For the purposes of this section, an appeal shall be taken to become inoperative if: 
the appeal is withdrawn; 
b) the appellant ceases to be a member of the Australian Federal Police; or 
the appellant ceases, by reason of the confirmation of his promotion to another position or for any other reason, to be eligible for promotion to the position concerned.'. 
I will canvass the argument for my amendment to clause 36 and for proposed new clause 36a. I understand that the questions on these clauses will be put separately but the same argument applies to both amendments. I will deal with them together to save the time of the Committee. These two amendments provide for the rectification of what is one of the most serious omissions in the Bill. This is the failure to provide explicit promotion appeal procedures. It is one of the issues canvassed very definitely by the Police Association and as we saw it its apprehension was fell founded. If those apprehensions are not well founded, I would ask the Minister for Administrative Services  (Mr McLeay)  to put our minds at rest and in particular the minds of those in the police forces. 
In the 1975 legislation, there are specific provisions which enable a member of the Commonwealth Police to appeal to the Promotions Appeals Board where that member thought he should have been promoted in preference to another member. Such rights are considered basic to any people working in any area of the Public Service. All that is provided in this legislation is the criteria to be considered in promotions, that is, clause 36 and the quite outrageous provision of clause 40 (c) which enables the Government to do virtually what it likes in relation to promotion appeals by regulation. The Commonwealth Police Officers Association is understandably most perturbed about this matter, as I have indicated before. Wide ranging discussions were held with that Association before the introduction of the 1975 legislation and the police remain convinced, as does the Opposition, that the 1975 legislation is the best method of handling the question of promotion appeals. The regulations that might be made under clause 43 could be anything. There has been no undertaking that regulations will not be made without prior consultation with the Police Association. One can only suspect that the Government has something to hide in its intentions in this area. In the matter of the whole range of promotion possibilities and the matter that I raised earlier, the Minister has given certain undertakings in terms of what might be called the apprehension concerning the elimination of certain gradings of policemen. It goes to that fundamental question. It seems to me that the issue of the fundamental  right of appeal should be spelt out by the Minister, giving the assurance to the Opposition and to the Commonwealth Police officers that their position will be preserved in the future. 
I move: 
After clause 36, page 1 3, insert the following new clause: 36a. (1) For the purposes of this Division, the Minister shall, from time to rime, arrange for the establishment of such Promotions Appeal Boards as are required. 
A Promotions Appeal Board, in relation to an appeal against a provisional promotion to a vacant position or to a position that is expected to become vacant, shall be constituted by- 
a Chairman who shall be a person appointed by the Minister to be a full-time or part-time Chairman of Promotions Appeal Boards; 
a police officer nominated by the Minister for the purposes of the appeal; and 
a police officer nominated by the organisation representing police officers that is, by virtue of the regulations, the appropriate organisation in respect of the appeal. 
A Chairman of Promotions Appeal Boards shall be paid such remuneration as is determined by the Remuneration Tribunal, but, if no determination of that remuneration by the Tribunal is in operation, he shall be paid such remuneration as is prescribed. 
A Chairman of Promotions Appeal Boards shall be paid such allowances as are prescribed. 
Sub-sections (3) and (4) have effect subject to the Remuneration Tribunals Act 1973. 
Subject to sub-sections (3) and (4), a  Chairman  of Promotions Appeal Boards holds office for such period, and upon such terms and conditions, as the Minister determines. 
The regulations may make provision for and in relation to the preservation of such rights as are specified in the regulations by a police officer who is appointed to be a fulltime Chairman of Promotions Appeal Boards under this Act and for and in relation to the appointment of such a police officer to a position in the Australian Federal Police upon the termination of his appointment under this section otherwise than upon the ground of his misconduct or after his having attained the age for retirement from the Australian Federal Police. 
Decisions of a Promotions Appeal Board need not be unanimous but may be decided according to the decision of the majority.'. 
Proposed new clause negatived. 
Clause 37 (Resignation). 
I formally move: 
Clause 38, page 13, line 42, omit 'If a member', substitute If, on the basis of a medical report, a member'. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 39 (Retrenchment) 
-by leave-I formally move: 
Clause 39, page 14, lines 7-9, omit paragraph (a). 
Clause 39, page 14, line 11, omit "in either component". 
Amendments negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 40 (Regulations may provide for certain other terms and conditions). 
I move: 
Clause 44, page15, line 27, omit 'may ',substitute 'shall'. 
This clause provides for the continuation of the hearing of matters by the Tribunal where the person who originally constituted the Tribunal is unable to continue with the proceedings. However, that provision simply states that the Tribunal, as constituted by another person, may decide to hear the matter under consideration. In other words it gives the Tribunal a discretion. We believe that there should be no discretion in this area and that the evidence that was given before the previous Tribunal should be taken into account. It should be incumbent on those people forming the Tribunal to ensure that due reference is paid to evidence that is given to the Tribunal up until that point in time when the new person may take over. 
-The Opposition's amendment No. 49 to clause 49 is consequential upon our amendments to give individual members of the Australian Federal Force the right of appeal to the Federal Police Arbitral Tribunal in relation to the decisions affecting them under clauses 38 and 39. 1 move: 
Clause 49, page 16, line 38, omit 'a party, being an association', substitute 'any party'. 
-This amendment to the Bill seeks the insertion of two parts that cover a set of procedures to deal with complaints against the police and vicarious liability. By arrangement with the Minister for Administrative Services  (Mr McLeay)  who is sitting at the table, I do not wish to canvass the whole range of issues that we would care to canvass. There are pages of them in this document. If honourable members want me to do so, we will be here all night. The arrangement has been made. I simply seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  the summary and a section of the Australian Law Reform Commission report. The 
Minister who is sitting at the table is aware of the two publications. 
Leave granted. 

 The documents read as follows- 

Ninth Report of Law Reform Commission 
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT INTO COMPLAINTS AGAINST POLICE 
Amendments to Include Part VII 
Complaints Against Police 
SUMMARY 
Getting Priorities Right- 
This Report supplements the Commission's first Report, Complaints Against Police, produced in 1975. The purpose of the proposals contained in this Report is to strike a proper and fair balance between the needs of a disciplined force and the rights of the community it serves. 
The police are in the vanguard of the administration of justice in our society. The honour and discipline of the force are integral to its effectiveness and must be maintained. Complaints do occur and are likely to increase with growing knowledge of and sensitivity to rights. Some will be vexatious. Others will be unjust. Still others will be justified and will require action. The machinery for action must be fair and just to the police and public alike. For the appearance of justice and for the protection of the standing of the police, the procedure cannot be left wholly to the police themselves. As much as possible should be. 
Since the Commission's first Report, a number of developments have taken place which have reinforced key elements in the Commission's original proposals, particularly the Commission's recommendations for the establishment of a special unit of the police force modelled on the A. 10 Section of Scotland Yard and the Commission's recommendations with respect to the role of the Ombudsman: 
The former Commissioner of the ACT Police has stated that the ALRC 1975 recommendations 'were mostly accepted by the police forces concerned as being an impartial and effective way of handling complaints against police'. In advance of legislation, the ACT Police in January 1978 set up an 'Internal Affairs Branch' as proposed in the initial ALRC Report. 
Legislation has been proposed for the largest police force in Australia (the NSW police) modelled on the Commission 's recommendations. 
The Northern Territory Ombudsman Ordinance provides for a widening of the Ombudsman's power to investigate complaints against individual policemen generally along the lines of the Commission 's proposals. 
In his recent report to the Minister for Administrative Services,  Sir Robert  Mark considered that an effective system for handling complaints against police was essential to any modern police force: the object should be to satisfy the public that every complaint is investigated thoroughly and impartially. In  Sir Robert  Mark's view the essential requirement of any machinery is the assurance of an initial investigation of manifest thoroughness and impartiality. 
Background to this Report- 
The Commission's first Report produced in 1975 was substantially adopted by the then Government and the Commission 's proposals were included in the Australia Police Bill 1975. The Bill lapsed with the dissolution of Parliament in November 1975. Government policy changed and the proposal to establish an amalgamated national force of all of the Commonwealth's police was not proceeded with. The Commission was subsequently asked by the Attorney-General to review its report, making any changes that were necessary in the light of the decision to retain separate police forces of the Commonwealth, the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory of Australia. At the same time, the Commission was asked to review a number of developments that had occurred in the meantime. These include the passage of new legislation on complaints against police in England ( Police Act 1 976 ), the receipt of new reports in Australia and overseas concerning this universal issue, the passage of the Ombudsman Act 1976 and public, police and other comments received since the publication of the Commission's report. 
The Commission has now reviewed its first report in the light of these considerations. It has conducted public sittings and private consultations in all parts of Australia. This supplementary report is the product of its further inquiries. 
The original proposals- 
The basic scheme put forward in the first report is retained. It involves the use of three instruments to infuse elements of independence which police themselves recognise to be important in the receipt, handling, investigation and determination of complaints against police. The instruments are: 
The Ombudsman as 'neutral territory' for the receipt of complaints, as investigator of last resort and as public guardian to require certain public complaints to be scrutinised in a public forum. 
A special unit of the police force, titled the Internal Discipline Section, and modelled on the A. 10 Section at Scotland Yard. Whilst reserving to the police force most investigations of complaints, experience teaches that a separate section of this kind achieves greater efficiency and independence in fearlessly investigating complaints, internal and external. 
A police tribunal, whose President is a judge, which can sit to hear charges brought based upon breaches by police of the discipline code. Criminal charges against police will continue to be dealt with in the criminal courts. Many public complaints against police, whilst not involving criminal conduct, are nevertheless serious matters that should be publicly dealt with. 
Particular elements of this scheme have already been adopted in some police forces. The overall scheme has been welcomed by one at least of the Commonwealth's forces. Part of it will soon apply to the Northern Territory Police Force and is under consideration for adoption in a major State force. Inevitably, some of the details have been modified in the light of changed circumstances and the considerations drawn to the Commission's attention. We have paid particular attention to the need to uphold the overall authority of the Police Commissioner and to leave with police the greatest possible responsibility for discipline that is compatible with the just disposition of complaints. Since the Commission's original Report, the Ombudsman Act 1976 has come into operation. It introduces a system of ex post review by the Commonwealth Ombudsman. He can look at the way an investigation of a public complaint was handled by police. Often he may not be able to look at the merits of the initial complaint. Review of this kind is not enough and the Commission proposes that the Ombudsman's powers be widened (para. 69). It is important that investigations and determinations satisfy the demand that justice should not only be done, but also be seen to be done. 
The Commission's current proposals- 
Recommendations on Receiving Complaints 
General Procedures. The legislation should make it clear that 'complaints' are to be given a wide interpretation (para. 72). A distinction is drawn between procedures to be followed in respect of 'internal ' complaints and 'external ' complaints (which originate from members of the public) (para. 70). The former will continue to be handled basically as at present, with the exceptions that an accused police officer or the Commissioner could elect to have a charge proceed before the Tribunal instead of before the Commission and an appeal would lie from the Commissioner to the Tribunal (para. 73). 
Recipients of Complaints: 
Members of the public may make their complaints to the police or to the Ombudsman (para. 73 ). 
Our earlier proposal that public servants should be alternative recipients of complaints against police is withdrawn (para. 75). 
A proposal that clerks of courts should become alternative recipients of complaints is not accepted (para. 76). 
The suggestion that special recipients should be appointed to receive complaints from Aboriginals, nonEnglish speaking persons, illiterate persons or from other disadvantaged groups, is not accepted (para. 78). The Aboriginal Legal Aid Services, ethnic communities and others should be informed of the procedures available, so they can direct persons, having complaints, in an appropriate way (para. 79). 
Need for Community Education: 
A short pamphlet setting out procedures and forms for transmission to the Ombudsman's office should be prepared (para. 77). Information in the major ethnic languages should also be compiled (para. 77). Information of this kind should be freely available at police stations and other federal offices (para. 83 ). 
The Commission would expect local Commonwealth officers to be informed of the available procedures (para. 76) and to help persons wishing to make complaints against the Commonwealth's police by providing information concerning the new procedures (para. 76 ). 
One of the non-contentious tasks of the proposed internal discipline section compatible with its other functions, is that of promoting community awareness of the machinery for dealing with public complaints (para. 77 ). 
Form of Complaints: 
Oral complaints should be received and reduced to writing either by the complainant or by somebody on his behalf (para. 81). 
Anonymous complaints should not be rejected. Their disposition should follow, so far as is possible, the same course as other external complaints (para. 82*). 
Recommendations on Investigating Complaints- 
Duties of Officers Receiving Complaints: 
No distinction should be drawn between the way in which 'serious' and 'not serious' complaints against police are handled by police (para. 88). However, in imposing obligations upon a police officer receiving a complaint concerning the action he should take to ensure its independent investigation and determination, provision should be made so that he is still able to take such action as he considers necessary to prevent injury to persons, damage to property, the escape of a person liable to arrest or the loss or destruction of evidence (para. 89). 
Subject to the above, the duty of a police officer receiving a complaint is to refer it to the proposed internal investigation unit as soon as possible. 
Creation of Internal Investigation Unit: 
An internal investigation unit within the Commonwealth police forces to investigate and report on complaints against police is desirable and feasible (para. 100). It should be created (para. 101). 
Because of the size of the forces involved, each unit will be, at least initially, very small. The minimum number of officers to be attached to a unit to make it viable is two (para. 101). 
The special unit should include officers of different ranks and there should be turnover in personnel, though service should generally be for not less than three years (para. 103) 
Handling of Investigation: 
Investigation of complaints against police should normally be performed by the Internal Discipline Section. 
The Commission rejects the importation of foreign or interstate or other force officers for investigating complaints against police (para. 99). 
In the context of separate forces, it also rejects a Commonwealth-wide unit (para. 100). 
In four special cases, the Ombudsman should have a reserve power, at his discretion, to undertake an independent investigation of his own. These cases include circumstances where: the complaint involves a member of the police force senior to all members of the Section; the complaint involves a member of the Section itself; the complaint is related to a matter the Ombudsman is already investigating; the Ombudsman is of the opinion that it is in the public interest that the complaint should be investigated by him (para. 109). 
A full system of recording complaints should be introduced both by the police and the Ombudsman (para. 106). Details of these complaints and their disposition should be reported to the respective legislatures. 
Where a complaint is made by a member of the public to the police, the Commissioner should notify the Ombudsman (para. 106). 
Reports of the internal investigation unit on external complaints should be sent to the Commissioner, who should then refer them to the Ombudsman with any comments he may have (para. 101). 
Bringing of Charges: 
The bringing of charges following reports should normally be within the discretion of police. 
Where a difference arises in respect of external complaints, the Ombudsman should have power, by making a formal recommendation, to ensure that a charge is brought by police and determined before the tribunal (para. 111). 
Charges should be prosecuted not by the complainant but by the police (para. 115). 
Recommendations on Determining Complaints- 
Criminal Charges: 
Criminal charges against police arising out of complaints should continue to be determined in the criminal courts. 
Disciplinary Charges: 
Charges based on the Discipline Code should be dealt with, as to internal charges, normally by the Commissioner and as to external charges, by a new independent tribunal to be established and known as the Police Tribunal (para. 1 12). 
Composition of Tribunal: 
The tribunal should be a single member judicial-type tribunal whose President is a judge (para. 112). 
The Commission does not favour a composite 'representative' tribunal for the forces involved. 
Role of and Proceedings before the Tribunal: 
The Commission does not favour limiting the tribunal to the hearing of appeals from Commissioner's decisions (para. 1 12). 
Hearings before the Tribunal should normally be conducted in public but it should be armed with a discretion to close proceedings, limit the publication of evidence and direct restrictions on the disclosure of documents in appropriate cases ( para. 121). 
Penalties should be decided by the Tribunal itself but it should have the assistance of a senior police officer as an assessor on penalty. A suggestion of a right of appeal on penalty from the Tribunal to the Commissioner is not accepted (para. 123). 
Important decisions of the Tribunal should be published, with due observation of any orders concerning confidentiality (para. 125). 
The Police Tribunal should be empowered to inquire into a matter, relating to the police force, that is referred to it by the Minister (para. 135). 
Appeals'. 
The Commission's previous suggestion of a general right of appeal to an appellate tier of the tribunal, comprising three judges, is now withdrawn. It is not appropriate that the business of the tribunal should be done by (nor appeals from it lie to) the Administrative Appeals Tribunal (para. 113). 
Appeals and references on questions of law to the Federal Court of Australia should be provided for (para. 113). 
A police officer should be entitled to appeal to the Tribunal against a decision or recommendation of his dismissal by the Commissioner ( para. 133). 
Representation in Proceedings: 
No recommendation is made in respect of representation on 'internal ' complaints before the Commissioner. 
Where a hearing takes place before the Tribunal, the accused should be entitled to representation (para. 114). 
Normally, the carriage of a charge will remain with the police. There should, however, be a discretion in the Tribunal to permit the complainant to be represented and otherwise to participate (para. 1 15). 
The Commission's previous recommendation that leave should be required before a participant was permitted to be represented otherwise than by lawyers is withdrawn (para. 1 16). 
Legal Assistance: 
Without creating any inflexible statutory entitlement, legal assistance should normally be granted to a police officer charged before the Tribunal on an 'external' complaint (para. 117). 
Obligation to Answer Questions: 
In respect of the compulsion to answer questions, a distinction is drawn between the investigation stage and hearings before the Tribunal. In the former there should be an obligation to answer questions as directed, subject to certain protections. In the latter, the normal rule against compulsory self-incrimination should obtain (para. 119). 
Self-incriminating answers given at the investigation stage should not be available as evidence in any subsequent criminal or civil proceedings (para. 120 ). 
Expungement of Records: 
The previous recommendation for the expungement of records concerning disciplinary offences is withdrawn. Instead, the Tribunal or the Commissioner should be empowered to fix the time after which, in any future disciplinary action, a penalty imposed will not be taken into account. (para. 124). 
Complainant to be Kept Informed: 
If, arising out of a public complaint, a charge is laid for determination by the Tribunal, the complainant should be informed of particulars of the charge. If he is not present at the conclusion of proceedings, he should be told of the outcome (para. 126). 
Miscellaneous Matters- 
Police Identification: 
Members of the Commonwealth's police forces, at least those below the rank of Inspector, should, when in uniform, wear identification numbers in an appropriate place, on the front of the uniform (para. 86*). Other officers, including non-uniformed officers, should carry appropriate identification whilst on duty (para. 86). 
Offence of False Report: 
The Commission's previous recommendation against the creation of an offence of making a 'false report' is withdrawn. An offence should be created but in strictly circumscribed terms (para. 127). It is not appropriate to deal in the present context with alleged misuse of the offence of criminal libel as retaliation against complaints against police (para. 128). 
Discipline Code: 
Urgent attention should be given to the introduction of a revised discipline code for police. But this should not further delay the implementation of the revised procedures, which can operate for a time upon the current lists of disciplinary offences (para. 134). 
Vicarious Liability: 
The Commonwealth should be liable vicariously for a tort committed by a police officer in the performance or purported performance of his duties (para. 136). 
Application to Customs and Narcotics Bureau: 
Whilst some of the above proposals could be adopted by administrative decision for the non-police officers who were originally included in the Australia Police, it is not possible to apply the legislation to such officers without modification. Urgent attention should be given to adapting the proposals suggested here to the receipt, investigation and determination of complaints against officers of Customs and of the Narcotics Bureau (para. 138) and other police-type officers of the Commonwealth. 1st Report on Complaints against Police 
PART-IX 
Vicarious Liability 
Present Law and Practice- 213. At common law a police constable is personally responsible for his criminal and tortious acts. So far as his torts are concerned his superior officer and those who appointed him or instructed him are not vicariously liable for his torts. At the heart of this rule is the principle that no relationship of master and servant or principal and agent existed between the Crown or municipal body appointing the police constable and the individual officer. Notwithstanding the fact that in modern times the appointment of police constables has become a matter largely governed by statute, the common law position has remained the same. 2 14. In Enever v. R. ( 1 905 ) 3 C.L.R 969 the High Court of Australia held that it was not competent to a claimant to bring an action against the Government of Tasmania for wrongful arrest by a constable acting in the intended performance of his duty as an officer of the police. The Tasmanian Crown Redress Act gave a right of action against the Government to a person having any just claim against the Crown for an actionable wrong in respect of 'any act or omission, neglect or default of an officer, agent or servant of the Government of Tasmania'. In rejecting the claim. Griffith C.J. said. (174) 
At common law the office of constable or peace officer was regarded as a public office, and the holder of it as being, in some sense, a servant of the Crown. The appointment to the office was made in various ways, and often by election. In later times the mode of appointment came to be regulated for the most part by Statute, and the power of appointment was vested in specified authorities, such as municipal authorities or justices. But it never seems to have been thought that a change in the mode of appointment made any difference in the nature or duties of the office, except so far as might be enacted by the particular statute. Again, at common law constables had large powers necessarily incident to the discharge of their functions as peace officers or conservators of the peace, amongst which perhaps the most important was the authority to arrest on suspicion of felony. To these powers others of a like nature have from time to time been added by statutory provisions, of which the 1 79th section of the Police Act is an instance. But there is no reason for thinking that the mere statutory addition to the list of their powers altered the essential nature of those powers. It seems also to have been always accepted as settled law that, although a peace officer was himself responsible for unjustifiable acts done by him in the intended exercise of his lawful authority, no responsibility for such acts attached to those by whom he was appointed. 
In the same case O'Connor J. said. (175) 
The common law has always recognised the office of constable. The duty of locally preserving the peace in England from the earliest times has been placed upon local bodies, upon the decennaries and hundreds in the time of Alfred, and later upon different local bodies, in more modern times upon the Boroughs and Municipalities. The recognised officers for the preservation of the peace in these localities have been the constable or constables chosen, elected or appointed by the local bodies as by law provided. The power to arrest for breach of the peace or other offences is given by the common law, not to the local bodies responsible for keeping the peace, but to their officer the constable . . . The power to arrest is given not to the local body nor the municipality, nor, in cases where a Government Police Force exists, to the Government- but to a constable, that is to a person who for the time being holds the office of constable. 215. The principle outlined in Enever v. R. received support in England in Fisher v. Oldham Corporation ( 1930) 2 K B. 364, a decision of McCardie J. in which the English decisions are reviewed and Enever v. R. specifically approved as 'most weighty and most instructive '. The case came under the review of the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council in Attorney-General for New South Wales v. Perpetual Trustee Co. Limited (1955) 92 C.L.R. 113. The case, which establishes that action per quod servitium amisit does not lie at the suit of the Crown in respect of the loss of services of a member of the Police Force appointed under the Police Regulation Act, 1899 of the State of New South Wales, provides further specific approval for the Enever principles. (176) 
In their view, there is a fundamental difference between the domestic relation of servant and master and that of the holder of a public office and the State which he is said to serve. The constable falls within the latter category.  His  authority is original not delegated and is exercised at his own discretion by virtue of his office: he is a ministerial officer exercising statutory rights independently of contract. The essential difference is recognised in the fact that his relationship to the Government is not in ordinary parlance described as that of servant and master. 216. There have been a number of statutory inroads into this common law position. In Australia, the only substantial alteration to the position of Commonwealth constables arises, and then only incidentally, in the Commonwealth Motor Vehicles (Liability) Act 1 959. By section 5 of that Act, where a claim is made against the Commonwealth or a Commonwealth authority for damages, or contribution to damages, in respect of the death of or personal injury to a person caused by or arising out of the use of an uninsured motor vehicle owned by the Commonwealth, the driver of the vehicle shall, for the purposes of that claim, be conclusively presumed to have been at all relevant times, with respect to the driving of the vehicle, the agent of the Commonwealth (or Commonwealth authority), acting within the scope of his authority. This section may have the effect of changing the common law position at least so far as Commonwealth police officers driving motor vehicles are concerned and in respect of claims of the class referred to in the Statute. It is clear that the provision seeks to grapple with the uniform statutory third party insurance principle rather than to deal with the specific problem of the Enever doctrine. That problem remains for claims against police officers of the Commonwealth. It is a hindrance to claimants and potential claimants as well as a discouragement to claims. 
Statutory Amendments: 217. The United Kingdom Royal Commission on the Police 1962 considered the status of constables. It had before it the submissions of a number of bodies asserting that the doctrine of vicarious liability, dependent upon the ability of a master to give orders to his servants, had been broadened in decisions of the court, so that persons at common law not previously thought to be servants were coming under the umbrella of the vicarious principle. The Commission concluded: (177) 
We are satisfied . . . that to make a police authority vicariously liable for a constable's actions would not derogate from this status: nor would it confer any power upon a police authority to control his duties. It appears to us that there are good reasons for making this change, and that to alter the present arrangement would be to the advantage of both police and the public. In particular we are impressed by the argument that where a particular constable complained of is not identifiable a member of the public is at present unable to pursue a legal remedy. We recommend, therefore, that a police authority be made liable for the wrongful act of police officers in the same way as the Crown is liable, under the Crown Proceedings Act 1 947, for the wrongful acts of an officer of the Crown. 218. As a consequence of the Royal Commission's recommendations, section 48 of the Police Act 1964 was enacted and it modifies the common law in significant respects. The section is in the following terms: 
1 ) The chief officer of police for any police area shall be liable in respect of torts committed by constables under his direction and control in the performance or purported performance of their function in like manner as a master is liable in respect of torts committed by his servants in the course of their employment, and accordingly shall in respect of any such tort be treated for all purposes as a joint tortfeasor. 
) There shall be paid out of the police fund- 
any damages or costs awarded against the chief officer of police in any proceedings brought against him by virtue of this section and any costs incurred by him in any such proceedings so far as not recovered by him in the proceedings; and 
any sum required in connection with the settlement of any claim made against the chief officer of police by virtue of this section, if the settlement is approved by the police authority. 
Any proceedings in respect of a claim made by virtue of this section shall be brought against the chief officer of police for the time being or, in the case of a vacancy in that office, against the person for the time being performing the functions of the chief officer of police; and references in the foregoing provisions of this section to the chief officer of police shall be construed accordingly. 
A police authority may, in such cases and to such extent as they think fit, pay any damages or costs awarded against a member of the police force maintained by them, or any constable for the time being required to serve with that force by virtue of section 1 4 of this Act, or any special constable appointed for their area, in proceedings for a tort committed by him, any costs incurred and not recovered by him in any such proceedings, and any sum required in connection with the settlement of any claim that has or might have given rise to such proceedings; and any sum required for making a payment under this subsection shall be paid out of the police fund. 2 1 9. This Commission has received submissions urging the adoption in this country of principles similar to those now to be found in section 48 of the English Police Act. ( 1 78) It has been urged upon the Commission that so long as the member of the Australia Police has acted in a proper and responsible manner, he should be indemnified for any damages and costs recovered against him when sued for a civil wrong. 220. Academic opinion in Australia has also favoured the acceptance of the English reform. Assistant Professor M. R. Goode has drawn attention to the injustices created by the present common law position (179), and especially to the fact that if the police offender is of limited means, a vindicated plaintiff may be left with a meaningless victory. There can be little doubt that the uncertainty of receiving the fruits of victory amounts to a substantial discouragement to the bringing of justifiable actions. Furthermore, Goode draws attention to the fact that failure to identify the particular police officer who has committed the ton effectively precludes the bringing of any action at all. The right to bring an action against a police constable personally is meaningless where a cause of action arises, say, in a scuffle: where one policeman may look like another and where some may be in plain clothes and others may not bear their identification. 221. Due weight has been given to the consideration that the provision of indemnity to a police constable may indirectly diminish deterrence from wrongful conduct and torts. This argument was urged upon the Royal Commission in England. ( 1 80) For substantially the same reasons as were advanced by those Commissioners we feel that the effect on deterrence is either insignificant or not such as can be fairly weighed against the injustices to both claimant and policeman that are presented by the present legal position. If practices are tolerated or encouraged despite their unlawfullness, it is to the policy maker that deterrence should be aimed. 
Furthermore, if a member of the Australia Police acts tortiously against a member of the public it can never be in the interests of the force that a member of the community should go uncompensated because of the anomalous state of the law. Moreover, we doubt that the provision of indemnity will remove restraints from an individual constable. Consider the reaction in a disciplined force of a successful damages claim against a constable and the response to that constable's having made the community suffer the burden of his wrong. (181) 222. Professor Atiyah has advanced a number of criticisms of a technical nature concerning the form of section 48 ( 1 ) which he draws to the attention of future draftsmen of provisions of this kind. ( 182) To these criticisms Assistant Professor Goode has added another. ( 1 83 ) The Commission has given careful considerations to these criticisms. It is not necessary to deal with them here. 
Argument and conclusion- 223. Those who oppose the introduction of the vicarious liability principle to police constables assert basically the position asserted by the common law cases. The position in Australia and England referred to above is closely paralleled by the common law decision in the United States. (184) It is argued that it is unjust that the community at large should have to bear the burden of paying for the consequences of the illegal acts of an individual policeman and that a police officer, who is employed to keep the Queen's peace, whenever he commits a wrongful act which sounds in damages against a member of the public, is acting outside the scope of his duties and ought not to be indemnified. It is asserted that to provide indemnity will attack the independence of individual police officers, further abridging their special relationship to the Crown. It is asserted that a system which allows a citizen to sue the Government for alleged tort's on unidentified police officers is open to abuse and fraudulent claims. Against these arguments the Commission has had to consider the plain injustice inherrent in the present state of the law. A member of the public who has suffered injury or damage ought to receive just compensation in every case. It is this principle which is behind the extension of the vicarious liability rule in the common law itself and the passage of legislation, of which the Commonwealth Motor Vehicles (Liability) Act 1 959 is but one example. 224. In reality most police functions nowadays (and one might say particularly in specialised police divisions such as proposed for the Australia Police) are performed in the pursuance of authority and instructions from the member's superiors. The establishment of responsibility for successful claims against the police will tend to ensure an even more stringent control by police superiors over their officers. In this way discipline, far from being impeded by the Commission's proposal, will most likely be strengthened. 225. It is necessary here to repeat that the Commission has not had before it the provisions of the proposed Australia Police Bill. The conclusions advanced that vicarious liability should be established by statute for the acts and omissions of the police officers assumes, of course, that the relationship between the constable and the Crown remains, technically, the same as it has been in the past. If the Police Bill works a change upon this relationship and, for example, either totally or substantially establishes a relationship of master and servant in the case of members of the Australia Police, much of what is here recommended may become unnecessary. This Pan is advanced upon the premise that the relationship remains substantially that set out in  Enever's Case.  The importance of this question for the issue in hand and other considerations has been drawn to the attention of the Department and Parliamentary Counsel. 226. The Commission's recommendation is that members of the public should be given a statutory right to recover from the Government in respect of the tortious acts of police officers, as if the relationship existed of master and servant. In the Commission's view, the damages, if recovered against a member of the Australia Police, should be borne in the first instance by Australia. The Commission is not of the view that a separate fund ought to be established nor is it of the opinion that police officers generally ought to be required to contribute to such a fund. 227. Three ancillary matters arise for consideration. The first arises from the objection that a right to claim damages in respect of an unidentified police officer will give rise to an unjustified and fraudulent claim against the public purse which ought to be prevented. The Commission has been urged to provide some protection by requiring a notice of intended action within a limited time. At present Regulation 59 of the Commonwealth Police Regulations provides for the limitations of actions against certain police officers for a notice of intended action. Normally claims against an unidentified servant of an employer do not require a notice of action. Whether or not such servant existed has to be resolved as a factual element in the trial of the plaintiff's claim. The claim will normally be discovered in particulars at a relatively early stage in the proceedings, if not asserted in the statement of claim. Having regard to this consideration, the injustices which such notices of action can work on litigants imperfectly advised and the recent legislative policy of the Australian Parliament in these matters, the Commission is not disposed to recommend the provision of such a requirement here. 228. In Australia courts can award exemplary damages in actions against police officers for wrongful arrest, malicious prosecution and the like.( 185) Whilst, in the Commission's view, it is right that the public purse should bear the burden of damages awarded against a member of the Australia Police for his acts and omissions, it is not felt that it would be proper to burden Australia with punitive damages, where such damages were thought proper. Accordingly the Commission proposes that the legislation should make it clear that Australia is liable in respect of torts committed by members of the Australia Police in the performance or purported performance of their function in like manner as a master is liable in respect of torts committed by his servants in the course of their employment. However the legislation should also provide that punitive or exemplary damages shall not be recovered from Australia in this regard. Such damages should only be recoverable from the individual police officer himself. 229. Finally, it would seem appropriate and desirable to provide that Australia, having borne the burden of damages (other than punitive damages) awarded against a member of the police should be entitled to recover such damages from that member, in proceedings brought for that purpose. It is desirable to so provide in order to spell out the liability of the police officer in respect of his tortious act. The enforcement of that liability may rest in the discretion of his superiors, reviewing all the facts when they are known. But the discretion should be seen to be a discretion to relieve him of a liability spelt out in the statue. It may be that, on ordinary principles a right to indemnity would accrue to Australia upon payment of the judgment sum to the successful plaintiff. But an express definition of the right to indemnity carries practical advantages. ( 1 74) ( 1 905 ) 3 C.L.R. 969 at 975. (1 75)ibid., p. 99 1. (176)  Attorney-General for New South Wales  v.  Perpetual Trustee Co. Limited(  1 955 ) 92 C.L.R. 1 1 3 at p. 1 1 9. (177) U.K. Royal Commission 1962. p. 65, para. 201. Cf. recommendation 28. (178) For example.  Mr Dean  Mildren, Transcript, 18 July 1975. para. 507:  Mr A.  J. Olroyd,  ibid.,  22 July 1975, para. 7 1 6. ( 1 79 ) M. R. Goode, 'The Imposition of Vicarious Liability to the Tons of Police Officers: Considerations of Policy'  Melbourne University Law Review  10 (1975), p. 47 at pp. 57 f, subsequently referred to as M. R. Goode, Vicarious Liability'. (180) The U.K. Royal Commission 1962 at p. 63. para. 198 and 199. (181) Some of the arguments are listed by M. R. Goode in 'Vicarious Liability'. (182) P. S.  Atiyah. Vicarious Liability  (London. 1967). pp. 289 f., especially at p. 409. n.9. ( 1 83) The criticisms are also outlined by M. R. Goode in 'Vicarious Liability', p. 51. ( 184) J. Dakin 'Municipal Immunity in Police Torts'.  Clev-Mar L.R.  16 (1 967), p. 448. (185)  Uren v. John Fairfax &amp; Sons Limited  (1966) 117 C.L.R. 118 and Australian Consolidated Press Ltd v.  Uren  (1967) 1 17 C.L.R. 22 1 (Privy Council); (1966)117C.L.R. 1 85 (High Court of Australia). 
-To save the time of the Committee and to meet the arrangement that has been made with the Government, I will simply move the amendments. We would dearly love to canvass the issues. However, an arrangement is an arrangement. I therefore move: 
52 ) After clause 80, page 27, add the following new Parts (comprising clauses 81 to 147): 
"PART VIII-COMPLA1NTS AGAINST THE POLICE 
Division 1- Preliminary "81. (I) In this Part unless the contrary intention appears- breach of discipline' includes a disciplinary offence under the regulations; 
Commissioner' means the person holding, or performing the duties of, the office of Commissioner of Police under the Public Service Act 1922 
Commonwealth Police Force' means the Commonwealth Police Force established by section 4; 
Deputy Ombudsman' means a Deputy Commonwealth Ombudsman; 
Deputy President' means a Deputy President of the Police Tribunal; 
Internal Discipline Section' or 'Section' means the Internal Discipline Section established by section 85; law ' means a law of the Commonwealth or of a State or Territory; legal practitioner' means a barrister or solicitor of the High Court or of the Supreme Court of a State or Territory; offence' means an offence against a law of the Commonwealth or of a State or Territory; 
Ombudsman' means the Commonwealth Ombudsman; 
Police Force' means the Australian Federal Police; police officer' means- 
the Commissioner or a Deputy Commissioner; 
a member of the Australian Federal Police referred to in paragraph 6 (c); and 
a special member of the Australian Federal Police appointed under section 27; 

 President' means the  President  of the Tribunal; 
 Registrar' means the Registrar of the Tribunal; and 
Tribunal' means the Police Tribunal established by Division IV. "82. For the purposes of this Part a reference to action taken by a police officer is a reference to action that the police officer has taken, or purports to have taken- 
by virtue of his being a police officer, whether the taking of the action was within, or was incidental to the performance of, his duties as a police officer; 
b) in the exercise of powers, or the performance of functions, conferred on him by this Act or by some other law; or 
in the capacity of a constable, under whatever authority he was appointed as such. 
"DIVISION II-COMPLAINTS AGAINST MEMBERS OF THE AUSTRALIAN FEDERAL POLICE 
"Sub-Division I- Interpretation "83. (1) In this Division, unless the contrary intention appears, a reference to action taken includes a reference to- 
a decision or recommendation made; and 
a failure or refusal to take action or to make a decision or recommendation. "(2) For the purposes of this Division, a person shall be taken to have complained to a police officer concerning action taken by that police officer or by another police officer if the person, in a document delivered to, or in a statement made orally to, the first-mentioned police officer, whether expressly or by implication, seeks, or seeks assistance in obtaining, redress (including action by way of punishing a police officer for an offence or a breach of discipline) in respect of that action taken by the police officer. "(3) For the purposes of this Division, where the Ombudsman or the Tribunal has referred a matter to the Commissioner for investigation by the Internal Discipline Section, that matter shall, upon being referred by the Commissioner to the Section, be taken to have been so referred at the request of the Ombudsman or of the Tribunal, respectively. "84. ( 1 ) Where a person complains to a police officer concerning action taken by that police officer, or by another police officer, this Division applies to and in relation to the complaint, whether- 
) the complaint is made orally or in writing; 
the police officer whose action is complained of is identified in the complaint; or 
the identity of the complainant is known by, or disclosed to, the police officer to whom the complaint is made. "(2) This Division does not apply to or in relation to a complaint made to a police officer concerning action taken in relation to the terms or conditions of employment of police officers generally or to the employment of a particular police officer. "(3) The provisions of this Division, in so far as they confer rights on persons with respect to action taken by a police officer- 
are in addition to the provisions of, and do not affect the operation of, any other law, in respect of that action; and 
in particular, do not prevent or affect the taking of legal proceedings in respect of that action under some other law or the operation of any other law in respect of that action. "Sub-Division 2- The Internal Discipline Section "85. ( 1 ) There shall be a Section of the Police Force to be known as the Internal Discipline Section. "(2) The Commissioner shall create such number of positions (not being less than 2) in the Section as are necessary for the effective performance by the Section of the functions referred to in this Sub-Division and may abolish a position so created that is no longer necessary but so that the number of positions remaining after the position has been abolished is not less than 2. "(3) The number of positions shall not be taken to be less than 2 in consequence of the abolition of a position if another position is immediately created in its place. "(4) The Commissioner shall determine the rank to be held by a police officer occupying a position in the Section. "(5 ) The Commissioner shall not exercise the powers conferred on him by sub-sections (2) and (4) otherwise than with the concurrence of the Public Service Board or of a person authorised by the Board to act under this sub-section. "(6) The Commissioner shall, from time to time as occasion requires, designate a police officer who occupies a position in the Section to be the officer in charge of the Section. "86. (1) The functions of the Internal Discipline Section are- 
to investigate matters concerning action taken by a police officer that are referred to it by the Commissioner, including matters referred to it by the Commissioner at the request of the Ombudsman or of the Tribunal; 
to investigate complaints concerning action taken by a police officer that are referred to it under section 89; 
to report to the Commissioner with respect to investigations carried out by it; and 
such other functions as are conferred on it by or under this or another Act. "(2) Where a member of the Section is able to do so without unduly interfering with the performance of the functions conferred on the Section by sub-section ( 1 ), the member shall perform such duties as a police officer as the Commissioner determines, but not including the investigation of offences alleged to have been committed by persons other than police officers. "87. (1) The Commissioner shall, in selecting a police officer for transfer or promotion to a vacant position in the Internal Discipline Section or to a position in the Section that is expected to become vacant, take into account, in addition to any other matters that he considers to be relevant- 
the nature of the functions of the Section; and 
the need to ensure that, at all times, the membership of the Section includes a police officer with experience of criminal investigations and a police officer with experience of the general duties of police officers in uniform. "(2) In an appeal against the promotion or transfer of a police officer to a vacant position, or to a position that is expected to become vacant, in the Section, there shall be taken into account, in addition to other relevant matters, the matters referred to in paragraphs (1 ) (a) and (1 ) (b). "88. ( 1 ) Where the Commissioner transfers or promotes a police officer from a position that is not in the Internal Discipline Section to a position that is in the Section, the Commissioner shall, by instrument under his hand, determine the period during which the police officer is to continue to be a member of the Section. "(2) Where the Commissioner is of the opinion that there are special reasons for doing so, he may vary an instrument under sub-section (1 ) relating to a police officer by substituting another period for the period specified in the instrument. "(3) Where a police officer has held a position in the Section for the period specified in the instrument under subsection (1 ) that relates to him, or has held 2 or more positions in the Section for periods that are continuous with each other and aggregate the period so specified, the Commissioner shall, as soon as practicable, transfer or promote the officer to a position that is not in the Section. "(4) An instrument that has been varied in accordance with sub-section (2) may be again varied as provided by that sub-section. "(5) In sub-section (3), a reference to an instrument under sub-section (1 ) includes a reference to an instrument under sub-section ( 1 ) that has been varied under sub-section (2 ) or (4). "(6) The Commissioner shall so exercise his powers under this section as to ensure, so far as is practicable that a member of the Section will continue to serve as such a member for a period not exceeding 3 years unless, in the opinion of the Commissioner, special circumstances exist that make it desirable that the person serve for a longer period. "89. (1 ) Where a person complains to a police officer concerning action taken by that police officer or by another police officer, the police officer to whom the complaint is made shall refer the complaint to the Internal Discipline Section for investigation. "(2) The police officer shall so refer the complaint by the most expeditious means available to him and, where he refers the complaint orally, shall, as soon as practicable, furnish particulars of the complaint, in writing, to the Section. "(3) As soon as practicable after particulars in writing of a complaint have been received, the Section shall notify the Commissioner of the complaint and furnish to him a copy of the particulars. "(4) As soon as practicable after the Commissioner has been notified the Commissioner shall notify the Ombudsman of the complaint and furnish to him a copy of the particulars. "(5) A police officer to whom a complaint is made may, if he considers it necessary to do so, take reasonable action to prevent- 
injury to persons or damage to property; 
the escape of a person liable to arrest; or 
the loss, destruction or fabrication of evidence relating to the complaint or an offence, but not so as to contravene, or fail to comply with, a law. "(6) A police officer who takes action in accordance with sub-section ( 5 ) in connection with a complaint- 
shall, notwithstanding that he takes the action, comply with sub-section ( 1 ) in respect of the complaint; and 
shall furnish to the Section, as soon as practicable, particulars in writing, of the action that he has taken. "(7) This section does not apply to a complaint made by a person who is known to the police officer to whom the complaint is made to be, or discloses to that police officer that he is, another police officer. "90. ( 1 ) Where a complaint or matter is referred to the International Discipline Section for investigation, whether under this Part or under some other Part, the officer in charge of the Section shall cause the complaint or matter to be investigated by a member of the Section and a report concerning the investigation to be prepared. "(2) The investigation shall be conducted, subject to this Part, in such manner as the officer in charge of the Section thinks fit. "(3 ) Subject to this Part, a member of the Section may, for the purposes of the investigation, obtain information from such persons, and make such inquiries, as he think fit. "(4) A member of the Section may, for the purposes of the investigation- 
enter premises occupied by the Police Force and carry on the investigation at those premises; 
inspect any documents or records kept at premises occupied by the Police Force and take extracts from, or a copy of, such a document or record; and 
examine any property used by the Police Force. "(5) A member of the Section may, for the purposes of the investigation- 
) direct a police officer to furnish information, answer a question or produce a document or other record, being information, a question, a document or a record that is relevant to the investigation; 
b ) may make a record, by means of sound recording apparatus or otherwise, of any information furnished, or answer given, in compliance with the direction; and 
may take extracts from, or a copy of, a document or record produced in compliance with the direction. "(6) A police officer is not excused from complying with a direction under sub-section (5) on the ground that compliance with the direction would be contrary to the public interest or might tend to incriminate him or make him liable to a penalty, or any other ground, but information so furnished by him, or his answer to such a question, is not admissible in evidence against him in any civil or criminal proceedings other than proceedings for an offence against sub-section (7 ) or for a breach of discipline. "(7) A police officer shall not furnish information or make a statement to a member of the Internal Discipline Section knowing that it is false or misleading in a material particular. 
Penalty: $500 or imprisonment for 6 months. "(8) Sub-sections (2) and (3) do not authorize a police officer to contravene or fail to comply with a law that would, if those sub-sections had not been enacted, apply in relation to the investigation of a complaint or other matter referred to the Section but nothing in this sub-section affects the operation of any other provision of this section. "91. ( 1 ) The officer in charge of the Internal Discipline Section may- 
if he is of the opinion that the whole or a part of the investigation of a complaint should be carried out by a person possessing special qualifications and if the Commissioner so approves, authorize a police officer who is not a member of the Section, or some other person who is not a police officer, being a police officer or person who possesses those qualifications, to make that investigation, or that part of the investigation, on behalf of the Section; or 
b ) if he is of the opinion that the complaint is not such as to require investigation by a member of the Section and if the Commissioner so approves, authorize a police officer who is not a member of the Section to make the investigation on behalf of the Section. "(2) Where the officer in charge of the Section gives such an authority, references in section 90 to a member of the Section shall, in the application of those sub-sections in relation to the investigation or part of the investigation, be read as references to the police officer or other person authorized. "92. (1 ) At any time before the Internal Discipline Section has furnished to the Commissioner a report of the results of its investigation of a complaint that has been referred to it under section 89 or by the Commissioner at the request of the 
Ombudsman, the Commissioner shall, if the Ombudsman so requests, direct the officer in charge of the Section to furnish to him, in writing, a report of the progress of the investigation of the complaint. "(2) The Commissioner shall, as soon as practicable after receipt of the report, furnish a copy of the report to the Ombudsman. "(3) This section applies in relation to a police officer or other person authorized under sub-section 91(1) as it applies to the Section. "93. (1) When the Internal Discipline Section has completed its investigation of a complaint or other matter referred to it under this Act, the officer in charge of the Section shall cause a report, in writing, of the result of the investigation to be furnished to the Commissioner. "(2) The Commissioner shall, as soon as practicable after the report is furnished to him- 
if the investigation relates to a complaint that was referred to the Section under section 89 or by the Commissioner at the request of the Ombudsman- furnish to the Ombudsman a copy of the report; or 
if the investigation relates to a matter referred to the Section by the Commissioner at the request of the Tribunal- furnish to the Registrar a copy of the report. together with any comments relating to the report that he wishes to make. "(3) Where a report of the results of an investigation into a complaint that was referred to the Section under section 89 is furnished to the Commissioner under sub-section (1 ), the Commissioner shall advise the complainant of the result of the investigation and shall, unless it is impracticable to do so, furnish a report of the investigation to the complainant at the same time as he complies with paragraph (2) (a) in respect of the investigation. "94. ( 1 ) Where the Commissioner receives a report of the results of an investigation of a complaint by the Internal Discipline Section, the Commissioner shall consider the report and if, as a result of his consideration, he is of the opinion that a police officer may have committed an offence or a breach of discipline and that, in the circumstances, he would be justified in doing so, he shall cause the police officer to be charged with that offence or breach of discipline or with some other offence or breach of discipline the Commissioner considers to be appropriate. "(2) Without limiting the application of sub-section ( 1 ), where the Ombudsman brings information to the notice of the Commissioner in accordance with section 103 the Commissioner shall- 
if the Ombudsman recommends that a police officer be charged with an offence or a breach of disciplinecause the police officer to be charged with that offence or breach of discipline or with some other offence or breach of discipline that the Commissioner considers to be appropriate; or 
if the Ombudsman does not so recommendconsiders the information and all other relevant circumstances and, if he considers that he would be justified in doing so, cause the police officer concerned to be charged with an offence or breach of discipline that the Commissioner considers to be appropriate. "(3) This section does not prevent a police officer from being charged with an offence or breach of discipline otherwise than in accordance with this section but a police officer shall not be charged with the same offence or breach of discipline- 
both in accordance with sub-section (1) and in accordance with sub-section (2 ); or 
both in accordance with this section and otherwise than in accordance with this section. "(4) Where the Commissioner, after considering in accordance with paragraph (2) (b) information that has been brought to his notice by the Ombudsman, decides that a police officer should not be charged with an offence or breach of discipline, the Commissioner shall furnish to the Ombudsman, in writing, his reasons for so deciding. "(5) Where a police officer is charged with an offence or with a breach of discipline in accordance with sub-section ( 1) or (2), the Commissioner shall notify the Ombudsman, in writing, that the police officer has been so charged and furnish to the Ombudsman any comments that he wishes to make in relation to the charge. "(6) Where a police officer is charged with an offence or breach of discipline as a result of the investigation of a complaint referred to the Section under section 89, the Commissioner shall, unless it is impracticable to do so, at the same time as he complies with sub-section (5), notify the complainant, in writing, that the police officer has been  so  charged and furnish to the complainant any comments he wishes to make in relation to the charge. "(7) Where a police officer is charged with an offence or breach of discipline as the result of an investigation of a matter referred to the Section at the request of the Tribunal, the Commissioner shall notify the Registrar that the police officer has been so charged and furnish to the Registrar any comments that he wishes to make in relation to the charge. "95. (1 ) The officer in charge of the Internal Discipline Section shall maintain a register containing the prescribed particulars with respect to each complaint or other matter that is referred to the Section for investigation. "(2) The Minister shall include in each annual report prepared by him in accordance with section 145 the prescribed particulars with respect to complaints and other matters so referred, during the year to which the report relates. "96. ( 1 ) Subject to this section, a person who is, or has been, a member of the Internal Discipline Section shall not, either directly or indirectly, and either while he is, or after he has ceased to be, such a member, except in the performance of his duty as such a member or with the consent, in writing, of the Minister, make a record of, or divulge or communicate to a person, information acquired by him in the course of, or for the purposes of, an investigation of a complaint or other matter referred to the Section for investigation. 
Penalty: $500 or imprisonment for 6 months. "(2) Where a person who has been authorized under paragraph 91 ( 1) (a) to make an investigation on behalf of the Section acquires information in the course of, or for the purposes of, that investigation, sub-section ( 1 ) applies to him in relation to that information as if he had been a member of the Section when he acquired the information. "(3) Subject to sub-section (6), a person who is, or has been, a police officer shall not, either directly or indirectly and either while he is, or after he has ceased to be, a police officer- ' 
divulge or communicate to a person the fact that, in the course of, or for the purposes of, the investigation of a complaint or matter by the Section- 
he made a statement to, gave information to or answered a question by a member of the Section; or 
made a document or record available by a member of the Section; or 
make a record of, or divulge or communicate to a person- 
information that he gave to a member of the Section in the course of or for the purposes of the investigation of a complaint or matter by the Section; or 
the contents of a document or record that he made available to the Section for the purposes of such an investigation, except with the consent, in writing, of the Minister or in connection with proceedings (including proceedings in respect of a breach of discipline) against a person (including himself). 
Penalty: $500 or imprisonment for 6 months. "(4) Sub-section ( 1 ) or (3) does not- 
prevent a person who is, or has been, a member of the Section from disclosing, in a report made under this Division, such matters as, in his opinion, ought to be disclosed in the course of setting out the grounds for the conclusions contained in the report; or 
prevent a person who is, or has been, such a member or a police officer from producing a record referred to in sub-section (1 ) to, or giving information so referred to in evidence before, a court, the Tribunal, or a person who is authorized to hear and determine a charge in respect of a breach of discipline. "(5) The references in sub-section (3) to a member of the Section include references to a police officer or person authorized under section 91 and the reference in that sub-section to an investigation include a reference to an investigation made by such a person under that section on behalf of the Section. "(6) Sub-section (1) or (3) does not prevent a police officer from making a communication for the purposes of, or in connection with, the making of a complaint to the Ombudsman or to the Commissioner in respect of action taken by a police officer in the course of, or for the purposes of, an investigation by a member of the Section or by a police officer or person authorized under section 91 to make an investigation on behalf of the Section. "(7) This section does not affect the operation of section 9 of the Ombudsman Act 1 976 in relation to a police officer. 
"DIVISIONIII-INVESTIGATIONS BY THE OMBUDSMAN OF COMPLAINTS AGAINST POLICE OFFICERS 
"97.(1) This Division shall be incorporated and read as one with the Ombudsman Act 1 976. "(2) Subject to this Division a reference to the Ombudsman Act 1 976 in a provision of that Act that is specified in Schedule 2 shall be read without taking into account the effect of sub-section ( 1 ). "(3) Section 1 1 of the Ombudsman Act 1976 does not apply to a complaint under this Division. "98.(1) In this Division, unless the contrary intention appears, 'complaint' means a complaint that has been notified to the Ombudsman under section 89 or made to the Ombudsman under section 100. "(2 ) Sub-sections 83 (1 ) and 83 (2 ) apply in relation to this Division as they apply in relation to Division II. "99. (1 ) Where the Ombudsman becomes of the opinion, either while he is investigating, or upon completing his investigation of, a complaint that appears to him to be a complaint in respect of action taken by the Police Force, that it would be more appropriate to deal with the complaint under this Part as if it were a complaint in respect of action taken by a police officer, the Ombudsman may determine that this 
Division applies, and shall be deemed always to have applied, to that complaint and, upon the making of the determination, Part II of the  Ombudsman Act  1976 does not apply, and shall be deemed never to have applied, to that complaint. "(2) Where the Ombudsman becomes of the the opinion, either while he is investigating, or upon completing his investigation of, a complaint that appears to him to be a complaint concerning action taken by a police officer, that it would be more appropriate to deal with the complaint under Part II of the  Ombudsman Act  1976 as if it were a complaint in respect of action taken by the Police Force, the Ombudsman may determine that that Part applies, and shall be deemed always to have applied, to the complaint, and, upon the making of the determination, this Division does not apply, and shall be deemed never to have applied, to that complaint. "(3) Where a determination is made under sub-section (1 ) or (2 ) in respect of a complaint, any action taken by the Ombudsman in relation to the complaint before the making of the determination shall be deemed to have been taken under this Division or under Part II of the  Ombudsman Act  1976, respectively. "(4) In this Division a reference to a complaint includes a reference to a complaint determined by the Ombudsman under sub-section (1) to be a complaint to which this Division applies and does not include a reference to a complaint determined by the Ombudsman under sub-section (2) to be a complaint to which Part II of the  Ombudsman Act  1 976 applies. " 100. ( 1 ) A person (including a police officer) may complain to the Ombudsman concerning action taken by a police officer, whether before or after the commencement of this section, not being action with respect to the employment of police officers generally or to the employment of a particular police officer. "(2 ) Sub-section ( 1 ) applies whether- 
the identity of the police officer is known by, or disclosed to, the Ombudsman; or 
the action relates to a matter of administration or to some other matter. "(3) In sub-section ( 1 )- 
the reference to action taken with respect to the employment of police officers generally includes a reference to action taken with respect to the promotion, termination of appointment or discipline of, or the payment of remuneration to, police officers generally; and 
the reference to action taken with respect to the employment of a particular police officer includes a reference to action taken with respect to the promotion of, or the payment of remuneration to, the particular police officer but does not include a reference to action taken with respect to a breach of discipline committed, or alleged to have been committed, by the particular police officer. "(4) Section 7 of the  Ombudsman Act  1976 applies to a complaint under sub-section (1 ) as if references in that section to a complaint under that Act were references to a complaint under sub-section ( 1 ). " 101.  (I)  Where a complaint is made to the Ombudsman under section 100 with respect to action taken by a police officer, the Ombudsman may, if he considers that it would be in the public interests to do so, refer the complaint, or a matter relating to the complaint, to the Commissioner for investigation by the Internal Discipline Section. "(2) The Ombudsman may, after considering a report of the investigation, refer the complaint, or a matter relating to the complaint, to the Commissioner for further investigation by the Section. "(3) The Ombudsman may, after considering a report of the investigation or of the further investigation- 
make any further investigation into the action taken by the police officer that he thinks appropriate; or 
treat the investigation, or the investigation and further investigation, by the Section, for the purposes of this Division, as constituting, or as constituting part of, his investigation of the action taken by the police officer or as concluding his investigation of that action. " 102. ( 1 ) Subject to this Division, the Ombudsman- 
shall investigate action taken by a police officer in respect of which a complaint has been made to him under section 100; or 
b ) may investigate action taken by a police officer in respect of which a complaint has been notified to him under section 89. "(2) The Ombudsman may, in his discretion, decide not to investigate action taken by a police officer to which a complaint relates or, if he has commenced to investigate the action, decide not to investigate the action further- 
if the Ombudsman is satisfied that the complainant became aware of the action more than 12 months before the complaint was made and that his declining to investigate the action, or to investigate the action further, would not cause undue hardship to the complainant; 
if the Ombudsman is satisfied that- 
the complaint is frivolous or vexatious or was not made in good faith; or 
the complainant does not have a real concern in the subject matter of the complaint and there are no special reasons justifying the investigation, or further investigation, of the action; or 
if, in the opinion of the Ombudsman, the investigation, or further investigation, of the action is unnecessary having regard to all the circumstances of the case. "(3)Where- 
a complainant has exercised a right to cause action to which his complaint relates to be reviewed by a court or by a tribunal constituted by or under an Act; or 
a person has been prosecuted in relation to the complaint, the Ombudsman shall not investigate, or continue to investigate, as the case may be, the action unless the Ombudsman is of the opinion that it would be in the public interest to do so. "(4) Where the Ombudsman is of the opinion that a complainant has or had a right to cause the action to which his complaint relates to be reviewed by a court or by a tribunal constituted by or under a law but has not exercised that right, the Ombudsman shall not investigate, or continue to investigate, as the case may be, the action unless the Ombudsman is of the opinion that- 
it is in the public interest to do so; or 
in all the circumstances, the failure to exercise the right is not or was not unreasonable. "(5) Subject to sub-section (6), the Ombudsman shall not investigate, or continue to investigate, action to which a complaint relates while the action is being investigated, or while a matter relating to the action is being investigated, by the Internal Discipline Section. "(6)Where- 
) the action to which a complaint relates- 
) concerns a police officer who is equal or senior in rank to the officer in charge of the Section; 
concerns a member of the Section; or 
is related to other action that the Ombudsman is investigating under the Ombudsman Act 1976; or 
the Ombudsman is of the opinion that it is in the public interest that he should investigate the action to which a complaint relates, he may investigate the action notwithstanding that the action is being investigated by the Section. " 103. The provisions of sub-sections 8 (2) to 8 (9) (inclusive) and sections 9, 13 and 14 of the Ombudsman Act 1976 apply to and in relation to an investigation by the Ombudsman of action taken by a police officer as if references in those provisions to that Act were references to this Division. " 104. ( 1 ) The Ombudsman may, whether before or after completing his investigation of action to which a complaint relates, bring to the notice of the Commissioner any information acquired by him in connection with the investigation which he thinks should be brought to the notice of the Commissioner. "(2) Without limiting the generality of sub-section (1), where the Ombudsman becomes of the opinion, whether before or after completing an investigation referred to in that sub-section, that information acquired by him in connection with the investigation shows that a police officer may have committed an offence or a breach of discipline and that the information is, in all the circumstances, such as to justify his doing so, the Ombudsman shall bring the information to the notice of the Commissioner and may recommend to the Commissioner that the officer be charged with that offence or breach of discipline. "105.(1) Where the Ombudsman becomes of the opinion, whether before or after completing his investigation of action to which a complaint relates, that, having regard to all the circumstances, the complaint may properly be dealt with by attempting to reconcile the complainant and the police officer concerned, the Ombudsman may make such suggestions, and do such things, as appear to him to be appropriate for effecting a reconciliation between the complainant and the police officer. "(2) Without limiting the generality of sub-section (I), the Ombudsman may make either or both of the following suggestions: 
a suggestion to the complainant that he take such reasonable action specified by the Ombudsman as would, in the opinion of the Ombudsman, assist in effecting a reconciliation; 
a suggestion to the Commissioner that the Commissioner, or the police officer concerned, take such reasonable action specified by the Ombudsman, or that the Commissioner and the police officer concerned each take such reasonable action specified by the Ombudsman, as would, in the opinion of the Ombudsman, assist in effecting a reconciliation. "(3) Sub-section ( 1 ) does not apply to a complaint concerning action taken by a police officer if the Ombudsman is of the opinion that information acquired by him in connection with the investigation of the action shows that a police officer may have committed an offence or a breach of discipline and that the information is, in all the circumstances, sufficient to justify his bringing the information to the notice of the Commissioner. "(4) Without limiting the powers of the Ombudsman in investigating action taken by a police officer, the Ombudsman may, for the purpose of attempting to reconcile a complainant and the police officer concerned- 
obtain from the Commissioner an explanation with respect to the policies, practices and procedures of the Police Force that the Ombudsman considers to be relevant; or 
request the complainant to do any or all of the following: 
to attend before him; 
to provide further information concerning the complaint; or 
to verify on oath or affirmation information furnished in connection with the complaint. "(5) Neither the complainant, the Commissioner nor the police officer concerned is bound to comply with a suggestion made under sub-section ( 1 ) or ( 2 ). "(6) Where, after dealing with a complaint in accordance with sub-section ( 1 ), the Ombudsman is satisfied that the complainant does not wish the action to which his complaint relates to be investigated further or any action, or further action, to be taken in respect of his complaint- 
the Ombudsman shall be deemed, for the purposes of this Division, to have effected a reconciliation between the complainant and the police officer concerned with respect to the matters to which the complaint relates; 
the Ombudsman shall notify the Commissioner in writing that he has effected the reconciliation; 
the Ombudsman is not required to investigate the action taken by the police officer further under this Division or to make any report (other than a report required under section 19 of the Ombudsman Act 1976) or do any other thing under this Division in relation to his investigation of that action; and 
if the Internal Discipline Section is dealing with the complainant, the Section shall cease to deal with it. " 106. ( 1 ) Where a complaint is made to the Ombudsman under section 100 concerning action taken by a police officer and the Ombudsman does not, for any reason, investigate, or complete an investigation of, the action, the Ombudsman shall inform the complainant and the Commissioner accordingly in writing and furnish to the complainant and the Commissioner particulars of his reasons for not investigating, or completing the investigation of, the action. "(2) If the Ombudsman completes his investigation of the action, he shall furnish to the complainant and to the Commissioner particulars of the results of his investigation. "(3) For the purposes of sub-section (1), where the Ombudsman refers a complaint made to him under section 100, or a matter relating to such a complaint, to the Commissioner for investigation by the Internal Discipline Section, he shall be deemed to be investigating the action to which the complaint relates. " 107. (1 ) Where, after the Ombudsman has completed his investigation of action taken by a police officer, the Ombudsman is of the opinion- 
that the police officer took action that, in all the circumstances, he should not have taken; and 
that the police officer did not, in taking that action, commit an offence or a breach of discipline, the Ombudsman shall report accordingly to the Commissioner and to the Minister. "(2) The Ombudsman- 
a ) shall include in the report his reasons for the opinions specified in the report; and 
b ) may also include in the report any recommendations he thinks fit to make. "(3) The Ombudsman may request the Commissioner to furnish to him, within a specified time, particulars of any action that the Commissioner proposes to take in consequence of the report. "(4) The Commissioner may furnish to the Ombudsman comments concerning the report. "(5) Where, within a reasonable time after the Ombudsman furnished the report to the Commissioner, action that is, in the opinion of the Ombudsman, adequate and appropriate in the circumstances has not been taken by the Commissioner in consequence of the report, the Ombudsman may inform the Prime Minister accordingly in writing and, if he does so, shall furnish to the Prime Minister a copy of the report and, if the Commissioner has furnished comments concerning the report of the Ombudsman under sub-section ( 4), a copy of those comments. "(6) In considering whether to furnish information in relation to the report to the Prime Minister in accordance with sub-section (5), the Ombudsman shall have regard to any comments furnished to him under sub-section (4) concerning the report. "(7) Where the Ombudsman has, in accordance with subsection (5), furnished information to the Prime Minister in relation to a report, the Ombudsman may also forward to the  President  of the Senate and the  Speaker  of the House of Representatives, for presentation to the Senate and the House of Representatives, respectively, copies of a statement prepared by him concerning the investigation and setting out a copy of any comments furnished to him under sub-section (4) concerning the report. "(8) Where the Ombudsman takes action as provided by sub-section (7), he shall send a copy of the statement and comments (if any) to the complainant to whom the report relates. " 108. ( 1 ) The Ombudsman shall establish and maintain a register containing the prescribed particulars of, or relating to, complaints. "(2) The Ombudsman shall include in each report referred to in paragraph 19(1) (a) of the Ombudsman Act 1976 the prescribed particulars with respect to complaints that were notified or made to him, or were investigated by him, during the year to which the report relates. 
"DIVISIONIV-THE POLICE TRIBUNAL 
"Sub-Division 1- Preliminary " 109. ( 1 ) In this Division, unless the contrary intention appears- 'judicial office' means- 
an office of judge of a Federal Court or of the Supreme Court of a Territory; or 
an office the holder of which has, by virtue of an Act, the same status as a judge referred to in paragraph (a); member' means the  President,  a  Deputy President  or other member of the Tribunal. "(2) For the purposes of this Division, an office of Justice of the Peace shall be taken not to be an office of Magistrate. "(3) In this Part, unless the contrary intention appears, a reference to a proceeding before the Tribunal is a reference to- 
a proceeding in respect of a charge referred to the Tribunal under section 122; 
an appeal to the Tribunal undersection 123; or 
an inquiry by the Tribunal into a matter referred by the Minister to the Tribunal under section 125. "Sub-Division 2- Establishment of Police Tribunal " 1 10. There is hereby established a Tribunal to be known as the Police Tribunal. "111. ( 1 ) The Tribunal shall consist of a President and such Deputy Presidents and other members as are appointed in accordance with this section. "(2) A member shall be appointed by the GovernorGeneral in Council. "(3) The Deputy Presidents and other members have seniority as Deputy Presidents or other members, respectively, according to the dates of their appointments. "(4) A member is not required by this Division to devote the whole of his time to his duties as a member. "112. (1) A person is not qualified to be appointed as President unless he is the holder of a j udicial office. "(2) A person is not qualified to be appointed as a Deputy President unless- 
he is the holder of ajudicial office; or 
he is a Deputy President of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. "(3) A person is not qualified to be appointed as a member other than President or a Deputy President unless- 
he is a magistrate of a Territory; or 
he has been, for a period of not less than 5 years, a legal practitioner. " 1 13. ( 1 ) The appointment of a person as a member, or the service of a person as a member, does not affect his tenure of ajudicial office or office under an Act or his rank, title, status, precedence, salary, annual or other allowances or other rights or privileges as the holder of a judicial office or office under an Act and, for all purposes, his service as a member of the Tribunal shall be taken to be service as the holder of his judicial office or other office. "(2) In this section, 'judicial office' includes an office of magistrate in a Territory. "114. Subject to this Division, a member holds office for such period, not exceeding 7 years, and on such terms and conditions, as are specified in the instrument of his appointment but is eligible for re-appointment. "115. ( 1 ) A member, not being the holder of a judicial office, shall be paid such remuneration as the Remuneration Tribunal determines but, if no determination of that remuneration by that Tribunal is in operation, he shall be paid such remuneration as is prescribed. "(2) A member shall be paid such allowances as are prescribed. "(3) This section has effect subject to the Remuneration Tribunals Act 1973. "(4) In this section, 'judicial office' includes an office of magistrate in a Territory. "116. (1 ) The Minister may appoint the holder of a judicial office to act as  President  during any period, or during all periods, when the  President  is unavailable to perform the duties of his office or during a vacancy in the office of  President.  "(2) Where a member other than the  President  is, or is expected to be, unavailable to perform the duties of his office, the Governor-General in Council may appoint a person qualified to be appointed to that office to act as the holder of that office during the period for which the member is so unavailable. "(3) Where a person has been appointed under subsection (1 ) or (2 ), the Governor-General in Council may, by reason of a pending proceeding or other special circumstances, direct, before the unavailable member ceases to be unavailable, that the person so appointed shall continue to act under the appointment after the member ceases to be unavailable and until the Governor-General in Council terminates the appointment but a person shall not continue to act by virtue of this sub-section for more than 12 months after the member ceases to be unavailable. "(4) Where a person has been appointed under this section to act as a member during the unavailability of a member and the member ceases to hold office without having become available to perform the duties of his office, the period of appointment of the person so appointed continues, subject to this Division, until it is terminated by the Governor-General in Council or until the expiration of 12 months from the day on which the unavailable member ceases to hold office, whichever first happens. "(5) A person acting as the  President,  as a  Deputy President  or as another member shall act in that capacity on such terms and conditions as the Governor-General in Council determines. "(6) A person acting as the  President,  as a  Deputy President  or as another member has all the powers and duties, and shall perform all the functions, conferred or imposed by this Division on the  President,  on a  Deputy President  or on another member, respectively, and, for the purpose of the exercise of those powers or duties, or the performance of those functions, this Division has effect as if a reference to the  President,  a  Deputy President  or other member included a reference to a person acting as the  President,  as a  Deputy President  or as another member, respectively. "(7) Where- 
the Tribunal as constituted for the purposes of a proceeding consists of a person acting or purporting to be appointed under this section; or 
a person so acting or purporting to be appointed has done any act, the validity of any decision of, or of any direction given or other act done by, the Tribunal as so constituted, or of the act done by the person so acting or purporting to be appointed, shall not be called in question in any proceeding on the ground that the occasion for the person to act or for the appointment of the person had not arisen, that the occasion for his appointment had ceased or that his appointment had ceased to have effect. "117. ( 1 ) Where the  President  no longer holds judicial office, the Governor-General in Council may terminate his appointment. "(2) The termination of the appointment of a  President  under sub-section (1 ) does not prevent his reappointment as a  Deputy President.  "(3) The  President  shall not be removed from office except as provided by this section. "118. ( 1 ) Where a  Deputy President  no longer holds ajudicial office or the office of  Deputy President  of the Ad ministrative Appeals Tribunal, the Governor-General in Council may terminate his appointment. "(2 ) A  Deputy President  shall not be removed from office except as provided by this section. " 1 19. ( 1 ) This section applies to a member other than the  President  or a  Deputy President.  "(2) The Governor-General in Council may remove from office a member to whom this section applies on an address praying for his removal on the ground of proved misbehaviour or incapacity being presented to the Governor-General in Council by each House of the Parliament in the same session of the Parliament. "(3) The Governor-General in Council may suspend such a member from office on the ground of proved misbehaviour or incapacity. "(4) Where the Governor-General in Council suspends a member from office under sub-section (3), the Minister shall cause a statement of the grounds of the suspension to be laid before each House of the Parliament within 7 sitting days of that House after the suspension. "(5) Where such a statement has been laid before a House of the Parliament, that House may, within 15 sitting days of that House after the day on which the statement has been laid before it, by resolution, declare that the member should be removed from office and, if each House so passes such a resolution, the Governor-General in Council shall remove the member from office. "(6) If, at the expiration of 15 sitting days of a House of the Parliament after the day on which the statement has been laid before that House, that House has not passed such a resolution, the suspension terminates. "(7) The suspension of a member from office under this section does not affect any entitlement of the member to be paid remuneration and allowances. "(8) If a member to whom this section applies becomes bankrupt, or if the affairs of such a member are being dealt with under Part X of the Bankruptcy Act 1966, the Governor-General in Council shall terminate his appointment. "(9) If a member to whom this section applies ceases to possess the qualifications necessary for his appointment, the Governor-General in Council shall terminate his appointment. "( 10) A member to whom this section applies shall not be removed or suspended from office except as provided by this section. " 120. A member may resign his office by writing under his hand delivered to the Governor-General in Council but the resignation does not have effect until it is accepted by the Governor-General in Council. "Sub-Division 3- Staff of Tribunal "121. (1) There shall be a Registrar of the Tribunal and such  Deputy  Registrars of the Tribunal as are appointed in accordance with this section. "(2) The Registrar and the  Deputy  Registrars shall be appointed by the Minister and have such duties and functions as are provided by this Division and by the regulations and such other duties and functions as the  President  directs. "(3) The Registrar and the  Deputy  Registrars, and the staff necessary to assist them, shall be persons appointed or employed under the Public Service Act 1 922. "Sub-Division 4- Constitution and Powers of Tribunal " 122. (1 ) The  President  may give directions as to the arrangement of the business of the Tribunal and as to the person who is to constitute the Tribunal for the purposes of a particular proceeding. "(2) The  President  may, either generally or as otherwise provided by the instrument of delegation, by writing signed by him, delegate all or any of his powers under sub-section ( 1 ) to a  Deputy President.  "(3) A delegation under sub-section (2) is revocable at will and does not prevent the exercise of a power by the  President.  "(4) Sittings of the Tribunal for the purposes of a particular proceeding shall be held at such places and times as are determined by the member who constitutes the Tribunal for the purposes of the proceeding. " 123. ( 1 ) The Tribunal shall, for the purpose of the exercise of its powers in relation to a matter, be constituted by one member. "(2 ) The Tribunal constituted by one member may sit and exercise the powers of the Tribunal notwithstanding that the Tribunal constituted by another member is at the same time sitting and exercising the powers of the Tribunal. "124. ( 1 ) Where a police officer is charged with a breach of discipline- 
in pursuance of a recommendation of the Ombudsman; or 
as a result of an investigation made by the Internal Discipline Section into a complaint referred to the Section under Division II, the Commissioner shall refer the charge to the Tribunal for hearing and determination by causing a copy of the charge to be forwarded to the Registrar. "(2) Where a police officer who is charged with a breach of discipline, otherwise than as mentioned in sub-section ( 1 ), does not admit the truth of the matters alleged to constitute the breach, the Commissioner shall- 
if the police officer requests him to do so; or 
if the Commissioner considers that it would be desirable in the circumstances to do so, refer the charge to the Tribunal for hearing and determination by causing a copy of the charge to be forwarded to the Registrar. "(3) The Tribunal shall hear and determine the charge and, if the Tribunal determines that the charge has been proved, the Tribunal may direct that the Commissioner- 
a ) caution or reprimand the police officer; 
b ) fine the police officer an amount not exceeding $200; 
change the place at which the police officer is to perform his dunes; 
d ) reduce the police officer to a lower rank; or 
reduce the rate of salary of the police officer to a lower rate of salary within the limits of salary fixed for the rank held by the police officer, or may recommend to the Minister that the police officer be dismissed from the Police Force. "(4) The Commissioner shall give effect to a direction of the Tribunal under sub-section (3). "(5) Paragraph 3(c) does not affect the power of the Commissioner to determine the place at which a police officer is to perform his duties. "125.(1) Where a police officer is charged with a breach of discipline and the Commissioner decides to take action of a kind referred to in sub-section 122 (3) or to recommend to the Minister that the police officer be dismissed from the Police Force- 
the Commissioner shall cause the police officer to be notified accordingly and to be furnished, with his reasons for his decisions, his findings on material questions of fact and a reference to the evidence or other material on which those findings are based; and 
the police officer may appeal to the Tribunal against the decision. "(2) An appeal to the Tribunal under paragraph 1 (b)- 
a ) shall be in writing; 
b) shall set out the grounds upon which it is made; and 
shall be lodged with the Registrar of the Tribunal within 28 days after the day on which the notification referred to in paragraph (l)(a) is furnished to the police officer. "(3) The appeal may be made on one or more of the following grounds- 
a ) that the charge should have been dismissed; 
that the action taken in respect of the charge is unduly severe; or 
that the action taken in respect of the charge is not authorized by law. "(4) The tribunal constituted by the  President  or by a  Deputy President  shall hear and determine the appeal and may- 
a ) affirm the decision under appeal; 
vary the decision under appeal; or 
set aside the decision under appeal and substitute for it a decision, including a decision dismissing the charge, that could have been made by the Commissioner in dealing with the charge. "(5) Where the Tribunal varies the decision under appeal, or substitutes its decision for the decision under appeal, the Commissioner shall give effect to the determination of the Tribunal as if it were his decision. " 126. ( 1 ) The Tribunal may, at any time during the hearing by it of a charge under section 1 24, or of an appeal under section 125, recommend to the Commissioner that the police officer concerned, if he is not at that time suspended from duty, be so suspended pending the determination of the charge or of the appeal and, where the Tribunal so recommends, the Commissioner shall suspend the police officer from duty accordingly. "(2) The officer is entitled to be paid salary during the period of his suspension. "(3) The Tribunal may, at any time during or after the hearing, recommend to the Commissioner that the suspension be removed and, where the Tribunal so recommends, the Commissioner shall remove the suspension. " 127. (1 ) The Tribunal may inquire into a matter relating to the Police Force that is referred to it by the Minister. "(2) If the Minister so directs, the Tribunal shall be constituted, for the purposes of the inquiry, by the  President  or by a  Deputy President.  "(3) The Minister may arrange for counsel to be engaged to assist the Tribunal in connection with the inquiry. "(4) Where the Tribunal is not assisted by counsel, the Commissioner shall, if he is requested by the Tribunal to do so, arrange for a member of the Internal Discipline Section, or for an appropriate police officer other than such a member, to assist the Tribunal in connection with the inquiry. "(5) Upon completing its inquiry, the Tribunal shall report to the Minister the results of the inquiry. " 128. The Tribunal may, at any time during the hearing of a proceeding, refer a matter relevant to the proceeding to the Commissioner for investigation by the Internal Discipline Section and, where it does so, the Commissioner shall cause the Section to investigate the matter. " 129. ( 1 ) Where, after a complaint has been made or referred to the Ombudsman concerning action taken by a police officer, a charge of breach of discipline is referred to theTribunal for hearing and determination, the complainant may, by leave of the Tribunal, appear before the Tribunal on the hearing of the charge. "(2) The Registrar shall, unless it is impracticable to do so, notify the complainant of the time and place at which the Tribunal will sit to hear the charge and that he is entitled to seek leave of the Tribunal to appear upon the hearing of the charge. "(3) The complainant may, if the Tribunal grants him leave to appear- 
appear in person, by a legal practitioner or by some other person; and 
b ) take such part only in the proceeding as the Tribunal permits. "(4)Where- 
the complainant complained to a police officer- the Commissioner; or 
the complainant complained to the Ombudsmanthe Ombudsman, shall, as soon as practicable after the Tribunal has given its decision with respect to the charge, and subject to any direction of the Tribunal prohibiting or restricting the disclosure of the decision, cause particulars of the decision to be furnished to the complainant, in writing, unless the complainant or his representative was present before the Tribunal when it gave its decision. "(5) The fact that a police officer has been charged, in connection with action taken by him, with an offence against a law does not prevent the institution, or the continuance, of proceedings before the Tribunal relating to that action. " ( 6 ) A complainant who- 
has appeared, by leave of a Tribunal, on the hearing of a charge by the Tribunal; and 
has paid, or has become liable to pay, costs or expenses in connection with the proceedings before the Tribunal, may apply to the Attorney-General for financial assistance by the Commonwealth in respect of those costs or expenses. "(7) The Attorney-General may, if he is satisfied that it would involve hardship to the complainant to refuse the application and that, in all the circumstances, it is reasonable that the application should be granted, authorise payment by the Commonwealth to or on behalf of the complainant in respect of those costs and expenses of such amount as he determines or of such amounts as he, from time to time, determines. "(8) Sub-section (6) or (7) does not authorise a payment in respect of fees of more than 1 counsel unless 2 or more counsel appeared for the police officer. "(9) Where the Attorney-General authorises a payment as provided by sub-section (7), he may, upon application being made to him by the police officer concerned, authorise payment by the Commonwealth to or on behalf of the police officer of such amount as the Attorney-General from time to time determines in respect of the costs and expenses of the police officer in connection with the proceedings before the Tribunal. " 1 30. ( 1 ) For the purpose of this Division the Tribunal- 
may take evidence on oath or affirmation; 
b ) may proceed in the absence of a person entitled to be present if the person has had reasonable notice of the proceeding; and 
may adjourn a proceeding before the Tribunal from time to time. "(2 ) Where a person who is, under the regulations, a party to a proceeding before the Tribunal requests a member to do so, the member may summon a person to appear before the Tribunal at the hearing of the proceeding to give evidence and to produce such documents (if any) as are referred to in the summons. "131.(1) Where a person who has been summoned to attend before the Tribunal as a witness in an inquiry under section 126 fails to attend as required by the summons, the member constituting the Tribunal may, upon being satisfied that the summons has been duly served and that reasonable expenses have been paid or tendered to the person, issue a warrant for the apprehension of the person. "(2) The warrant authorises any member of the Australian Federal Police or the police force of a State or Territory or a Commonwealth officer named in the warrant to apprehend the person and bring him before the Tribunal and, for that purpose, to detain him in custody until he is released by order of the Tribunal. "(3 ) The apprehension of a person under this section does not relieve him from any liability incurred by him by reason of his failure to attend before the Tribunal. " 132. (1 ) Subject to sub-section (2), the hearing of a proceeding before the Tribunal shall be in public. "(2) Where the Tribunal is satisfied that it is desirable to do so in the public interest or by reason of the confidential nature of any evidence or matter, the Tribunal may- 
direct that the hearing, or a part of the hearing, shall take place in private and give directions as to the persons who may be present; and 
give directions restricting or prohibiting the publication or disclosure- 
of evidence given before the Tribunal, whether in public or in private; 
of any matters contained in documents lodged with the Tribunal or received in evidence by the Tribunal; or 
of any finding or decision of the Tribunal in relation to the proceeding. "(3) A person shall not contravene or fail to comply witha direction under this section that is applicable to him. 
Penalty: $500 or imprisonment for 6 months. " 133. At the hearing of a proceeding before the Tribunal, a person who is, under the regulations, a party to the proceeding may appear in person or may be represented by a legal practitioner or by some other person. "134. (1) In a proceeding before the Tribunal, the procedure of the Tribunal is, subject to this Division and to the regulations, within the discretion of the Tribunal. "(2) A proceeding before the Tribunal shall be conducted with as little formality and technicality and with as much expenditure as the requirements of this Division and a proper consideration of the matter before the Tribunal permit. "(3) The Tribunal is not bound by any rules of evidence but may inform itself on any matter in such manner us it thinks appropriate. "(4) The regulations may make provision, not inconsistent with this Division, for or in relation to- 
the practice and procedure of the Tribunal; 
the persons who are to be regarded as parties to a proceeding before the Tribunal, not being a proceeding by way of inquiry into a matter referred to the Tribunal under section 127; 
the appointment of the Commissioner, or of another police officer nominated by the Commissioner, to assist the Tribunal in connection with a proceeding before the Tribunal by furnishing advice to the Tribunal with respect to the nature of the action that it would be appropriate to take in respect of a police officer found by the Tribunal to have committed a breach of discipline; 
the stay of proceedings before, or of a decision of, the Tribunal; and 
subject to sub-section (3), the payment of costs and expenses in respect of proceedings before the Tribunal and the assessment of those costs and expenses. "(3) Paragraph (2) (c)does not authorize the making of a regulation empowering the Tribunal to order a complainant who has been given leave to appear before the Tribunal to pay any costs or expenses of any other party to that proceeding. "(4) Subject to section 132, the Tribunal shall, in a proceeding before it by way of the hearing and determination of a charge referred to it under section 124 or an appeal made to it under section 125, give reasons in writing for its decision and those reasons shall include its findings on material questions of fact and a reference to the evidence or other material on which those findings were based. "(5) The Tribunal shall cause a copy of its decision and reasons to be furnished to each person who is, under the regulations, a party to the proceeding. " 135. ( 1 ) A member has, in the performance of his duty as a member, the same protection and immunity as a Justice of the High Court. "(2 ) A legal practitioner or other person appearing before the Tribunal has the same protection and immunity as a barrister has in appearing for a party in proceedings in the High Court. "(3) Subject to this Division, a person summoned to attend or appearing before the Tribunal as a witness has the same protection, and is, in addition to the penalties provided by this Division, subject to the same liabilities, as a witness in proceedings in the High Court. "Sub-Division 5- Appeals to Federal Court of Australia "136. In this Sub-Division, unless the contrary intention appears- 
a reference to a proceeding before the Tribunal does not include a reference to a proceeding by way of inquiry into a matter referred to the Tribunal under section 127; 
a reference to a question of law does not include a reference to the question whether there was sufficient evidence to justify a finding of fact by the Tribunal; and 
a reference to the Court is a reference to the Federal Court of Australia. " 137. ( 1 ) A person who was a party to a proceeding before the Tribunal may appeal to the Court, on a question of law, from a decision of the Tribunal in that proceeding. "(2 ) The appeal shall be instituted- 
within 28 days after the day on which a document setting out the terms of the decision of the Tribunal was furnished to the person or within such further time as the Court, whether before or after the expiration of that period allows; and 
in accordance with any applicable Rules of Court in force under the Federal Court of Australia Act 1 976. "(3) The Court has jurisdiction to hear and determine the appeal and that jurisdiction shall be exercised by the Court constituted as a Full Court. "(4) The Court shall, in determining the appeal, make such order as it thinks appropriate. "(5 ) Without limiting by implication the generality of subsection (4), the orders that may be made by the Court on the appeal include an order affirming or setting aside the decision of the Tribunal and an order remitting the proceeding to be heard and determined again, either with or without the hearing of further evidence, by the Tribunal and in accordance with any directions of the Court. "(6) The institution of the appeal does not affect the operation of the decision of the Tribunal or prevent the taking of action to implement the decision but the Court may, on such conditions (if any) as it thinks fit- 
a ) suspend the operation of the decision; or 
b ) stay all or any action under the decision. "(7) For the purposes of sub-section (6), the Court may be constituted by a single Judge. "138. (1 ) The Tribunal may, of its own motion or, if it thinks fit, on the application of a party to a proceeding before the Tribunal, refer a question of law arising in that proceeding for determination by the Court but, in the case of a proceeding before the Tribunal constituted by a member other than the  President,  a question shall not be so referred without the concurrence of the  President.  "(2) The Court has jurisdiction to hear and determine the question of law and that jurisdiction shall be exercised by the Court constituted as a Full Court. "(3) Where a question of law arising in a proceeding before the Tribunal has been referred to the Court under subsection ( 1 ), the Tribunal shall not, in that proceeding- 
a ) give a decision to which the question is relevant while the reference is pending; or 
b) proceed in a manner, or give a decision, that is inconsistent with the determination of the Court on the question. " 139. (1 ) Where an appeal is instituted in the Court under section 1 37 or a question of law is referred to the Court under section 138- 
the Tribunal shall, notwithstanding any direction under section 132, cause to be sent to the Court all documents that were before the Tribunal in connection with the proceedings to which the appeal or reference relates; and 
at the conclusion of the appeal, the Court shall cause the documents to be returned to the Tribunal. "(2) If there is in force in respect of any of the documents a direction under section 132 restricting or prohibiting the disclosure of any matter contained in a document, the Court shall, subject to any order of the Court to the contrary, ensure that that matter is not disclosed to a person other than a member of the Court as constituted for the purposes of the appeal. "Sub-Division 6- General " 140. A person served with a summons to appear as a witness before the Tribunal shall not, without reasonable excuse- 
fail to attend as required by the summons; or 
fail to appear and report himself from day to day unless excused, or released from further attendance, by the Tribunal. 
Penalty: $500 or imprisonment for 6 months. " 141. (1 ) A person appearing as a witness before the Tribunal shall not, without reasonable excuse, refuse or fail- 
to be sworn or to make an affirmation; 
to answer a question that he is required to answer by the Tribunal; or 
to produce a document that he was required to produce by a summons under this Act served on him as prescribed. 
Penalty: $500 or imprisonment for 6 months. "(2) Subject to sub-section (3), it is a reasonable excuse for such a person to refuse or fail to answer a question or to produce a document if the answer to the question, or the document, may tend to prove that he has committed an offence against a law or, in the case of a police officer, that he has been guilty of a breach of discipline. "( 3 ) Where the Tribunal is inquiring into a matter that has been referred to it by the Minister under section 1 27, a person appearing before the Tribunal to give evidence or produce documents is not excused from answering a question or producing a document on the ground that the answer to the question, or the document, may tend to prove that he has committed an offence against a law or, in the case of a police officer, that he has been guilty of a breach of discipline. "(4) Evidence given or a document produced by a person upon an inquiry referred to in sub-section (3) is not admissible against him in any civil or criminal proceedings other than proceedings for an offence against this section or against section 35 or 36 ofthe Crimes Act 1914. " 142. A person shall not- 
insult or disturb a member of the Tribunal in the exercise of his powers or functions as a member; 
b ) interrupt the proceedings of the Tribunal; 
create a disturbance in or near a. place where the Tribunal is sitting; or 
) do any other act or thing that would, if the Tribunal were a court of record, constitute a contempt of that court. 
Penalty: $500 or imprisonment for 6 months. " 143. (1 ) The  President  shall, as soon as practicable after 30 June in each year, submit to the Minister, for presentation to the Parliament, a report of the operations of the Tribunal during that year. "(2) The Minister shall cause the report to be laid before each House of the Parliament within 15 sitting days of that House after its receipt by him. "(3) The first report under this section shall be submitted as soon as practicable after 30 June first occurring after the date of commencement of this Division and shall relate to the operations of the Tribunal during the period that commenced on that date and ended on that 30 June. 
"DIVISION V-MISCELLANEOUS" 
" 1 44. ( 1 ) A police officer who holds a rank declared by the regulations to be a rank to which this section applies shall, at all times when he is wearing his police uniform, wear on, or attached to, the front of his uniform- 
) the badge of the Police Force; and 
his identification number. 
Penalty: $500 or imprisonment for 6 months. "(2) A reference to a police officer who holds a rank includes a reference to a police officer who temporarily holds that rank. "(3) The Commissioner shall take such steps as are necessary to enable police officers to whom sub-section ( 1 ) applies to comply with that sub-section. " 145. A police officer who is requested by a person to furnish to the person his name or the address of his place of duty; or both, and is informed by the person; or is otherwise aware, that the person is complaining, or proposes to complain, concerning action taken by that police officer- 
shall not refuse or fail to comply with the request; 
shall not furnish to the person a false name; and 
shall not furnish to the person as the address of his place of duty an address other than the full and correct address of his ordinary place of duty. 
Penalty: $500 or imprisonment for 6 months. " 146. (1) A person shall not, in or in connection with a complaint made to a police officer concerning action taken by a police officer or by the Police Force, furnish information, or make a statement, to the first-mentioned police - officer that he knows to be false or misleading in a material particular. 
Penalty: $500 or imprisonment for 6 months. "(2) A person shall not be convicted of an offence against sub-section (1 ) unless the evidence that he knew the information or statement to be false or misleading in a material particular is corroborated by a peson other than a police officer. 
"PART IX-TORTS COMMITTED BY POLICE OFFICERS 
" 147. (1 ) The Commonwealth is liable in respect of a tort committed by a police officer in the performance or purported performance of his duties as such an officer in like manner as a person is liable in respect of a tort commited by his employee in the course of his employment, and shall, in respect of such a ton, be treated for all purposes as a joint tortfeasor with the police officer. "(2) In a claim by the Commonwealth for damages in respect of a ton, an act or omission of a police officer in the performance or purported performance of his duties as a police officer may be relied on as constituting contributory negligence by the Commonwealth if the act or omission could have been so relied on if it had been done by an employee of the Commonwealth in the course of his employment. "(3) The liability of the Commonwealth under subsection ( 1 ) does not extend to a liability to pay damages in the nature of punitive damages. "(4) Where damages or costs, other than damages in the  nature of punitive damages, are, in proceedings with respect to a tort committed by a police officer in the performance or purported performance of his duties as such an officer, directed to be paid by the police officer, the Commonwealth may pay to the plaintiff the whole or a part of those damages or costs and may pay to the police officer any costs incurred by him in the proceedings and not recovered. "(5) Where a sum is laible to be paid by a police officer under a settlement agreed to by him of a claim that has, or might have, given rise to proceedings of the kind referred to in sub-section (4), the Commonwealth may pay the whole or a part of that sum. "(6) Where the Commonwealth- 
a ) pays to a plaintiff moneys by way of damages or costs in respect of a tort committed by a police officer.  being moneys that the Commonwealth is liable to pay by reason of sub-section ( 1 ); 
pays moneys in accordance wtih sub-section (4); or 
pays a sum in accordance with sub-section (5). the Commonwealth may recover, in a court of competent jurisdiction, contribution from the police officer in respect of the payment. "(7) In proceedings for contribution under sub-section (6), the amount of the contribution recoverable is such amount as the court finds to be just and equitable in all the circumstances. "(8 ) For the purposes of this section- 
a ) an act or omission of a police officer in the capacity of a constable, under whatever authority he was appointed as such, shall be deemed to have been done in the performance of his dunes as a police officer; and 
a reference to a plaintiff includes a reference to a defendant counter-claiming.". 
My question is directed to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Is it a fact that the proposals for a 50 per cent increase in television station licence fees were developed in the Melbourne office of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal without the knowledge of the  Chairman  of the Tribunal? Is it a fact that the  Chairman  of the Tribunal learned of the decision only on Wednesday? It is apparent from the move by the Minister to explain away in the Press what is contained in the Budget that the Minister did not know about it until Budget night. Is this extraordinary episode typical of planning in the Minister's area of responsibility? 
-This evening I would like to raise an issue that perhaps reflects on the policies of the Government that was virtually portrayed to the electorate as incompetent in the Budget Speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  the other evening. Just as an example, in regard to my area of responsibility I would like to bring to the attention of the House a stupid and bureaucratic anomaly in the treatment of a New South Wales country town by Australia Post and the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley).  At first glance one would believe that in effect Telecom was an independent authority, but when we hear the General Manager of Telecom suggest that he was influenced by some individual to extend the areas covered by certain telephone charges to include areas within some of the seats which may swing in a future election we know that he was not influenced by Margaret Thatcher or Zazu Pitts. He was influenced by the Minister who represents the Government. We have seen an exercise in duplicity in respect of the document that the Minister for Post and Telecommunications presented during the course of the last two or three months. In it he announced changes which will not take effect until May of next year. That ministerial document is about as incompetent as one could possibly imagine. 
I have here another example of such incompetence. I refer to the town of Lavington and the anomalies in regard to parcel post rates that residents and local businesses pay. This may at first impression seem a trifling matter compared with all the boo-boos that have been made by the Minister. Lavington, which is part of the AlburyWodonga growth centre, is being treated by Australia Post very differently from the remainder of the growth centre. This is of considerable importance to the residents of Lavington and also to the businesses and industries that have been established there. Large companies employing many people- companies such as Borg- Warner (Australia) Ltd, Battenfield Manufacturing Co. Pty Ltd and Twin Disc (Pacific) Pty Ltd- are very important companies to that area's growth. 
The anomaly is this: Recently Australia Post brought in parcel post concessions for twin border cities, the only two being AlburyWodonga and Tweed Heads-Coolangatta. This allowed residents of Albury to post parcels to towns in Victoria as though Victoria were their home State, and a similar arrangement applied in relation to Wodonga and New South Wales. This made for considerable savings as parcels posted across the borders normally came in for a substantial slug in postal rates. For example, a 5 kilogram parcel sent from Albury to a town in Victoria had a postage rate reduction from $3.25 to $ 1 . 1 5 whilst the postage rate for a 10 kilogram parcel dropped from $5.25 to $2. But when Australia Post brought in its wholly commendable scheme, by some apparent oversight this arrangement was restricted to the Albury post code zone and the Wodonga post code zone. One might say that this was all well and good, except that Lavington, with its own post code, is a tiny island within a veritable sea- the Albury post code area. So some ignoramus advising the Minister got hold of this concept for influencing people in those peripheral areas to vote Liberal. In fact, it will not help Cameron or any other individual in the electorate. It will decimate his chances just as it will decimate the chances of other individuals who are sitting on the Government back benches shuddering in their shoes. 
Let me expand on this obvious anomally. The Albury post code zone extends, as the crow flies, 100 kilometres to the east. All these anomalies reflect on the competence of this Government. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
I wish to deal with one aspect of the speech just made by the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Giles).  He talked about the track record on unemployment. I remind him that 1,000 unemployed people have been added to the list for every month that his Government has been in power. A conservative anticipated figure of about 60,000 unemployed is admitted in the Budget Papers. This Budget holds little joy for Australians, particularly those looking to the bleak future of unemployment. It gives a further fillip to big business. The Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  himself has admitted that this is a business Budget. The upper classes continue to pay less than their fair share of taxation, but the great majority of Australians are served poorly by this Budget. However, some sections of the population have been hit harder than others, and among these groups are the people of Canberra. Today I wish to demonstrate just how unsympathetically Canberra has been treated. 
Canberra is thought of by many Australians as a privileged city, subject to huge Government subsidy and support. I would debate that attitude, but if there was ever any truth in it, after four Fraser Budgets, there is no doubt that exactly the opposite is true now. This Budget gives less to the people of Canberra this year and takes more. It takes more via a considerable hike in the rates, higher land rents, and higher departmental fees and charges. On the other hand, after making a modest allowance for inflation, the Budget gives less to Canberra in total social welfare appropriations, education appropriations, health appropriations, and the construction budget for the National Capital Development Commission. 
This last factor will have a most drastic effect on Canberra's unemployment rate. Canberra has the highest rate of unemployment of any city in Australia. Unemployment in Canberra has been increasing since the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  came to power and its increase shows no signs of abating. Unemployment is increasing faster than elsewhere- over the last twelve months by 18 per cent, the twelve months prior to that by 21 per cent, and this Budget will produce another 20 per cent increase during the coming year. For the people of Canberra, the 1979-80 Budget is first and foremost an unemployment Budget. This is purely and simply because Government expenditure within the Australian Capital Territory again has been cut back this year. Total government spending will drop by $8.9m to $422m. After allowing for inflation this year, government expenditure within the Australian Capital Territory will drop by 8 per cent in real terms. On the other hand, total Government receipts from the good citizens of the Australian Capital Territory will rise by a real 3.4 per cent, or by $ 15.5m to $143m. It is quite simple: In either dollar terms, or real terms, the Government this coming financial year will take more from the people of the Australian Capital Territory and give less. Simply, they are the facts. This theme runs through a whole mass of statistics that can be extracted from the Budget Papers. 
In this statement I have allowed for inflation at 8.5 per cent, a most conservative estimate as the Government itself has suggested a 10 per cent inflation figure for the coming year. After the figures have been deflated the appropriation for the Department of the Capital Territory is down whilst revenue that it collects from territorians is up. The NCDC's administrative budget is down, its construction budget is down much more, and the percentage of its construction budget for new projects is down even further. This has a devastating effect on the employment opportunities of people throughout the Territory. This fact is one that in the light of Canberra's unemployment problem I wish to explore a little further. In 1977-78, NCDC's construction budget was $ 196.75m. Last year it was slashed to $ 1 55m and this year again it has been drastically pruned, down to $ 127.7m. Allowing for inflation, NCDC's construction budget dropped by 24 per cent in the latest appropriation. 
Now the Minister has argued that the budget should quite properly be slashed, because Canberra 's population growth has slowed dramatically- due only, of course, to Government policy and financial stringency- and that therefore there is less need to build and service the new facilities that people need. If that is the case then why does the Government not go to the people to test who is right and who is wrong in this Budget? As far as it goes, that is a good and correct argument. But it is only half the story. The NCDC builds not only what it calls normal basic community requirements, but also Commonwealth offices and national works, and it is especially in this last category that I believe there is room for construction projects that will relieve this city's ever-climbing unemployment. The NCDC's total proposals for new projects were $86m last year and only $48. 5m this year, and after inflation that is an incredible drop of something like 45 per cent. Last year the NCDC proposed $70m worth of community requirement type projects and only $2m of national works. This year it is $3 9m worth of community projects and $4m in national works. 
The building industry is the largest private employer of labour in the Australian Capital Territory and with the savage drop in NCDC contract expenditure many more building companies will go to the wall or leave the Territory- as many others have before them. What effect will that have on employment opportunities and, in particular, employment opportunities for young people in the Territory? Others will simply lay off workers, who will have to join the dole queues in and around Canberra. Hundreds of jobs in the building industry are likely to be lost, and of course this will have deleterious effects right through the Canberra economy. But it is in government building projects that much of the sting could be removed from our unemployment problem. Last calendar year, 1 ,400 jobs were lost from the Australian Capital Territory construction industry, which now employs fewer people than at any other time since 1 968-69. A slashing of the NCDC's construction budget will only increase this slide. The trend has to be reversed. 
The Government uses glib phrases when it talks about the projects it initiates. They sound very rosy, and the arguments developed by some of the better speakers on the Government side are all very fine. But there is one problem: They are not doing anything to cure unemployment. People who are on fixed incomes and social services cannot eat them. The trend must be reversed. The problem is that, despite the Minister's pie-in-the-sky wishings, the private sector will not take up the slack- certainly not this year, anyway. One would have to be a super-optimist to believe that the new Canberra Development Board will be so successful that major new private construction projects will be underway within this financial year. The public sector must take up the slack. The fact is that the Canberra Development Board is another facade, another committee. When the Government gets into trouble, what does it do? It sets up a committee or tries to find a scapegoat, but it does nothing about the reality of the problem. 
Unemployment in Canberra rose by more than 1,000 over the last 12 months and by the same amount the year before. I take this opportunity to remind the people of Canberra of the attitude of the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  towards the Australian Capital Territory's unemployment problem. The man told a Liberal Party meeting in June that Canberra's young jobless would have to leave the Australian Capital Territory to have a hope of getting work. What a rotten, callous attitude. This man would break up families, destroy stable lifestyles and send young people out on the road looking for work, which the Government will do nothing to provide in their home city- a company town run by this Government. This action will lead the young people away from parental control. They may finish up on the junk heaps somewhere or as junkies or prostituting themselves in and around the major cities of this country trying to keep a roof over their heads. They are the facts. We have this individual making statements such as that to the people in the Liberal Party who are the architects of the Budget strategy which is doing nothing to relieve unemployment or the plight of the underprivileged in this country. 
The Government's real reductions in expenditure through the Department of the Capital Territory and the NCDC and its real reduction in total expenditure are counterpoised by the rises in the general, water and sewerage rates. Everybody in Canberra knows that to be a fact. Once again, the Government's blank assertions as to the necessity for rate rises do not hold water. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
Prior to the suspension of the sitting for lunch I was talking about the philosophy of the Government and the Budget of deception as it applied to the Government's claim that rate rises in Canberra were not only a necessity but also were to cover certain aspects of Canberra. An example of the deception is the rise of 7.8 per cent in the general rate. That means a rise of 7.8 per cent above the inflation rate, as a rating of cents in the dollar is inflation proof. The water and sewerage rates are to rise by 1 1.8 per cent cent and 17.9 per cent respectively after taking inflation into account. The Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Ellicott)  has told the people of Canberra that these rises were necessary for the debt servicing of the newly commissioned Googong Dam and the lower Molonglo sewerage works. Increased revenue from the two rate rises collectively will be $2.94m. The net extra debit servicing charges to the Commonwealth for the two new facilities are less than $2.2m. Once again the public of Canberra has been swindled, to the tune of over $750,000 by the rate increases. 
Take more and give less is a fundamental philosophy of this Government generally and in particular towards the citizens of Canberra and the Australian Capital Territory. The attitude of the Liberal Party to this city is apparent. Where are all those noisy local representatives while this finagling goes on? There is not one of them in the House now. I would like to hear the honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem)  making a lot more noise than he is at the moment. He has been uncharacteristically quiet since the Budget. I do not believe that I am being uncharitable in suggesting that the honourable member has gone to ground.  His  colleagues from the centre also have been curiously silent, while selling some of their interests in the restaurants throughout Canberra. I have said that the Liberal Government's attitude towards this city has been characterised by giving less and taking more. There is one exception to this rule in the Budget Papers however- only one. It concerns Commonwealth Brickworks (Canberra) Pty Ltd. Members may recall that this Government sold the brickworks to a large brickmaking company, Clifton Brick Holdings Ltd, late last month in an asset stripping operation. It was part of the program to sell out all of the Commonwealth instrumentalities, even those that are making a handsome profit, to provide further assets for the people whom they represent in this Parliament. 
-The Minister for Industrial Relations has made another one of his emptyheaded comments. He can listen to a bit of logic about what happened with the brickworks. The sale of the brickworks was a classic example of the asset stripping operation of the Government. The acquisition of the brickworks must have seemed like manna from heaven to Clifton Holdings which paid only $3.575m of this gift from the Liberal Party. The Budget Papers confirm this, but they also point out that a discharge of liabilities over the Commonwealth brickworks will cost the Government $4.2m. Is that right? So much for the fact that the brickworks may well have been losing money. The Government has sold the Commonwealth brickworks for $600,000 less than its debts. That was another hand-out to one of its Liberal friends. The Government sold an asset only to lose over $500,000. 
All this becomes the more curious when it is realised that in 1977 the Government attempted to sell a half share in the brickworks for $3m. However, no congratulation is deserved. In fact, condemnation is more in order as welfare spending will actually drop. In a Press interview, quoting figures about some individuals representing the party's interests, the Minister for the Capital Territory said that congratulations had gone to the Government for the apparent fact that social welfare expenditure in the Territory is to rise. As I have already indicated, congratulations not only are not necessary but are misplaced. Condemnation is probably more the order of the day as welfare spending in the Australian Capital Territory will drop. Only the allocation for welfare spending by the Department of the Capital Territory rose in this Budget. The allocation for spending by the Department of Social Security, on the other hand, dropped and the funds formerly disbursed by the Legislative Assembly have dwindled to nothing since the Minister's piracy of the poker machine funds for the Department of the Capital Territory. The allocation of those funds was determined by people who at least represented the interests of the people of Canberra. 
This has all been changed by a sleight of hand trick by the Minister. He is accumulating all the funds into one area and then handing them out in an allocation that waters down the effect of the Budget strategy which has applied more pressure on more people who are not in a position to defend themselves. There are people who require social security handouts, who of right ought to have them. The money obtained in this area ought to be used for alleviating the plight that is perpetrated on them by the policies of this Government. As I said, the Minister's piracy of the poker machine funds has already been debated in this Parliament. We said that the matter of poker machine revenue should have been referred to - 
The Minister for the Capital Territory has arrived. I am glad that he is here to hear the pearls of wisdom. Perhaps he will take them on board, change his ways and allow the House of Assembly to distribute the money that is collected in the Australian Capital Territory, particularly in Canberra, from poker machines. That revenue should not be used to subsidise the Budget strategy of the Government by a sleight of hand trick- now we see and now we do not. In that respect the social welfare allocations made by the Government are somewhat of a subterfuge. This revenue is all lumped into one. I am not arguing that there could not be a more rational or efficient way of distributing funds. But the Government should not lump them together, as was pointed out to the Minister for the Capital Territory during the debate on the poker machine revenue. The Government will take that money to subsidise funds in the next Budget. It is changing the picture as to what in fact happens with the funds as it proceeds to subsidise what should have been the responsibility of the Government- to maintain the level of expenditure in relation to those organisations which deal with people who are not in a position to help themselves in the social welfare area and to encourage those organisations to maintain their services. The Budget strategy is directed towards restricting their ambit of operation. Not only is the Government restricting their ambit of operation, but it is also claiming credit for something that it has not done. In the whole Budget strategy of deception, this fits admirably into the mosaic of that attitude of the Government. 
Last year the Department of the Capital Territory was allocated $5.93m for welfare expenditure. The Department of Social Security contributed $ 1.32m and the revenue from poker machine funds added close to $ 1 m. Total welfare funds for the Australian Capital Territory were therefore $8.25m. This year the Department of the Capital Territory has offered $7.29m and DOSS only $660,000, a cut of over 53 per cent on last year's allocation. 
It is a cut of 53 per cent since last year. I challenge the Minister to show from the Budget papers that that is not a fact. This totals $7. 96m, which even without taking inflation into effect, is clearly a cut of $290,000. After inflation, this represents a cut of 1 1 per cent. That is a large drop. On the one hand the Government is promoting policies and cutting funds, which will lead to an increase in the number of Canberrans out of work; and on the other hand the Government offers less support for those who are destitute or financially hampered by unemployment. This is part of the Government's strategy. The Government's treatment of Canberra in this Budget is scandalous, and the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Ellicott)  ought to stand up and be counted on the issue and declare publicly the real effect on the population of Canberra and the real effect on those who are exploited by the policies of the Government. All Canberrans should realise this, condemn it and unite to throw out the Liberal larrikins who are ruining this country. They will have that opportunity, if the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Government members sitting on the front and back benches have any courage whatsoever and go to the people and let them decide whether this Budget strategy ought to be accepted or rejected. I am sure that it will be rejected. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder! The honourable member's time has expired. 

asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 23 May 1 979: 
What was the rental housing stock of (a) detached houses and (b) flats and home units held within the Australian Capital Territory by each Commonwealth Department and statutory authority as at (i) 9 March 1979, (ii) 23 March 1979, (iii) 6 April 1979, (iv) 20 April 1979, (v) 4 May 1979 and (vi) 18 May 1979. 
If the figures reveal a sudden drop in available rental stocks, what is the reason for this drop. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker - 
I take umbrage at that remark. I want it withdrawn. 
-This imbecile from Hotham, or whoever it was, made a reference and I take umbrage at it. I may tell the honourable member that I more than anybody else in this chamber have suffered at the hands of individuals in that category. He has sold his guts to the Liberal Party and to employers. He might take notice of that - 
I would not put it in the record by repeating it. If you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  have not paid attention I have got to stand in a situation - 
-I will withdraw it. 
Yes, it is a bit flattering but I will withdraw the word. 
Yes, I give an unqualified withdrawal. People can make up their own minds. They will shortly. 
This debate has covered a range of areas, yet has really missed the point emphasised in the statement of the Minister for Industrial Relations  (Mr Street).  Industrial relations and the concept of bringing people together in the industrial arena rather than forcing them apart is lost in this debate because people are pushing and shoving purely on political grounds. The statement itself is a political statement. It seems to me that for some reason confidence is gathering in the Government ranks that we will be going to the polls in a short space of time on the ground that things may well be worse in 1980. If this is not a political statement or perhaps even an election campaign speech, I have never heard one. Let us look into the heart of what is being said in this statement. It is really an attack on the historical principles outlined in the conciliation and arbitration system. When one talks about conciliation, and this clown from Holt would not know because he is only- I withdraw that remark - 
In naval parlance, the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Yates)  has been here for a dog's watch and would not know anything about the traditional trade union movement in this country or in any other country I would imagine. But I know something about the traditions of the industrial movement in this country as I have been involved with them for something like 20 or 30 years. Commissioners of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, before whom I once appeared day after day, laid down the philosophy that the first step that parties took in industrial relations was conciliation. The role of the Commission was to set minimum wages. The parties were then encouraged to proceed by means of conciliation and in terms of the principle and philosophy of the Act, to set the maximum. But in the statement of the Minister the minimum becomes the maximum and that is a formula for industrial disputation leading to confrontation. That is the difference between what has been advocated over the years and the philosophy now enshrined in the Minister's statement. If that philosophy is adopted it will spell nothing but disaster for industrial relations, and will lead to confrontation in industry. 
Since this Government came to power that philosophy has been the order of the day. We have seen a progression from the legislation and the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission is now committed to resolving industrial disputes. The Conciliation and Arbitration Act covers disputes that extend beyond the boundaries of one State and takes the disputes out of the common law area. Its aim was to take out of the common law area individuals who could not protect themselves. The individual now vacating the chamber has as his only claim to fame that he was the private secretary to  Sir Ian  McLennan from Broken 
Hill Pty Co. Ltd or- I will be pulled up againwas something in regard to the Minister. He was an individual who served the  Speaker  from time to time. He advocates, as do the Minister and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  a return to the common law situation. 
I think the Minister for Home Affairs  (Mr Ellicott)  who is at the table would respect the point I am about to make. The common law is a judge-made law. The rules and principles of the common law apply only where they have not been set aside by some statutory enactment. No special formula is required for this to be done, nor is the power to set aside common law limited to the Australian Parliament. It can be exercised by the State parliaments, by regulations made by Executive governments, or by local councils. 
Sometimes this power to override the common law by legislation has been beneficial. The common law is not always tender for the rights of the individual, particularly the individual without money or without political influence. I would like to give an example. It is a common law principle that a person is free to enter into contracts. Let me remind the individuals opposite that in the last century the common law upheld the right of factory owners to contract with children to work for 16 hours or more a day for starvation wages. When workers formed trade unions to get better conditions, the common law, aided by Parliamentary enactment, said that the unions were unlawful combinations and their leaders were sent to prison. It is still the position at common law that all trade unions are unlawful as conspiracies in restraint of trade. It means that the strong can protect themselves and the weak can please themselves. If a situation is reached where honourable members opposite, including the Minister at the table, through their advocacy put individuals in a position where they cannot protect themselves, the philosophy and principles of conciliation and arbitration in the industrial sense will fall by the wayside. Then what do we have? Honourable members opposite talk about industrial anarchy. They force people into allowing themselves to contract out of the awards by the application of economic pressures. Do honourable members opposite want to return to that situation? I do not think that the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Ellicott),  who is at the table, would want a return to that situation. It seems to me that the philosophy displayed in this document that the Minister has presented this evening is headed in that direction. 
I should like to deal with one more aspect of that document. We have heard about the Halfpenny-Hayden axis. Let us look at the axis between monopoly control- the people who own and control this country- and the members of the Fraser Government, the individuals who sit on the opposite side of the House. Let us look at some of those in the former category. One is James Charles McNeill,  chairman  of Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd. He heads Australia's biggest company and chief steel, oil and gas operators. The next individual is Arvi Hillar Parbo, aged 51, who is  chairman  and managing director of the Western Mining Corporation. Another is  Sir Charles  Gullan McGrath, age 66, who has been  chairman  of Repco Ltd since 1957. Then there is  Sir John  Gardiner Wilson, who has been the managing director of Australian Paper Manufacturers Ltd since 1959. There is Brian Scott Inglis, managing director of the Ford Motor Co. of Australia Ltd. Another is  Sir Robert  CrichtonBrown, age 57, who is a longstanding and active member of the Liberal Party and became the Party's Federal Treasurer in 1974. He is the  chairman  and managing director of Edward Lumley &amp; Sons Pty Ltd, an insurance company which is the holding company of a group of companies. Then we have James Campbell Johnston, age 64, of the Melbourne Stock Exchange. They are the men who are in Fraser 's business cabinet. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)There is no point of order. 
I should like to refer also to an article which appeared in the  Australian Financial Review  on 1 1 September. It carried a report of a shareholders' meeting of the New South Wales Permanent Building Society. The  chairman  of the Society is a former  chairman  of the Sydney Stock Exchange,  Mr Alistair  Urquhart. The  deputy chairman  of the Society is  Sir Jock  Pagan, who is a former federal  president  of the Liberal Party. He was interested- 
-I am talking about- 
-Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  This particular individual,  Sir Jock  Pagan, is the New South Wales Agent-General in London. That same gentleman got a loan of $ 1 50,000 - 
Yes. He is the former AgentGeneral in London. He got a loan of $150,000 from the same society at a lower rate than building society interest rates. Evidence was given at a Supreme Court hearing in June that two factions of the Liberal Party tried to take over the New South Wales Permanent Building Society, which is Australia's biggest building society. Presumably, they were interested not only in the prestige of a directorship but also in getting access to the hundreds of millions of dollars invested in that society. The court heard evidence that the present directors, including Urquhart and Pagan, had spent $2.8m in order to get elected. They did this by investing in separate accounts. Effectively this gave them the right to have multiple votes. The $2.8m was spent, the court was told, in preventing an extreme right wing faction of the New South Wales Liberal Party from taking over the society. It is not known whether one of the members of this faction was  Mr Lyenko  Urbanchich, who is now being investigated by the State branch of the Liberal Party. 
No member may digress from the subject matter of any question under discussion- 
We are supposed to be discussing the Minister's statement on industrial relations. I fail to see how this matter has anything whatsoever to do with that. 
-I remind you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that mention was made in the Minister's speech of the axis between  Mr Halfpenny  and  Mr Hayden.  I am pointing out the axis between individuals whom I have mentioned and the hierarchy of the Liberal Party. I believe that I am in order. 
-Thank you. I shall repeat what I said two moments ago, This gave them the effective right to have multiple votes. The $2.8m was spent, the court was told, in preventing an extreme right wing faction of the New South Wales 
Liberal Party from taking over the society. As I have indicated, it is not known whether one of the individuals who have been investigated by the State Branch of the Liberal Party is the individual whom the Jewish anti-Nazi investigator, Simon Weisenthal, indicated was a war criminal. What about the axis there? Who is controlling the Liberal Party? Who is controlling the Minister sitting at the table and those individuals who sit on the front bench? What about axis between big business and those it controls? 
-The Minister for the Capital Territory is getting agitated because my time is about to expire. He is as guilty a man as anybody who sits on that side of the House. 
-I ask the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs: Is it a fact that by January 1980 only four out of every 100 officially registered unemployed people will receive training assistance? Is it a fact that last August the comparable figure was 13 out of every 100? Is it also a fact that the expenditure of $140m on the National Employment and Training System, the Community Youth Support Scheme, the Commonwealth Rebate for Apprentice Full-time Training scheme and the Education Program for Unemployed Youth represents 0.12 per cent of the gross national product, while Canada and the United States of America spend six times that amount and Sweden spends 20 times that amount? Why are all the other member countries of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development out of step with Australia? 
-I rise to support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis).  He has introduced into this debate certain specific areas to which I would like to address myself. In his address he pointed out that this Budget is surely one of deceit and deception, because it has endeavoured to take the people in the electorate for a ride on a whole range of issues that directly affect their livelihood. It is also a deceit of broken promises. Pressures have been applied to government instrumentalities, States and the like to reduce the standards and the expectancy of people throughout the length and breadth of this country. The time allocated to me in speaking to the amendment is not sufficient to enable me to deal with matters in my area of responsibility. I will just address myself to the area of telecommunications and postal services, which highlights the effect of Government strategy and policy. Telecom Australia and the Government have made great mileage out of the 'Community Access 80' document, which they claim offers substantial benefits to fringe suburban and rural areas in terms of telecommunications charges. In the near future I intend to take issue with many of the claims made about those so-called benefits. 
At present I would like to talk about an area in which this Government has deliberately increased telephone costs for the whole community, and in particular for the fringe suburban and rural areas. Before this Government came into office a large percentage of Telecom capital investment funds was provided by the government through a Budget allocation. This Government progressively reduced that allocation until it was withdrawn altogether in last year's Budget. The Government has forced Telecom to compete for loan fundings on the open local capital market; it cannot utilise the cheaper interest rates offered on the international market. This means simply that Telecom interest repayments have risen substantially. Therefore, the cost of capital works has risen proportionately. It now costs more to provide capital works than it did when the government provided loan funds at favourable interest rates. A Labor government will look at the possibility of reducing those costs by looking once again at the possibility of providing loan funds at favourable rates. This will mean significantly lower rates for rural and suburban fringe subscribers. The major cost in trunk and subscriber trunk dialling calls is the cost of the capital equipment used to make the call. If that capital equipment cost can be lowered, the cost to the subscriber can be lowered. In this sense the 'Community Access 80' document and the supposed benefits it offers are a three-card trick designed to woo the voters in the marginal areas. 
Rather than engaging in an exercise in deception in which dubious advantages are offered to a number of subscribers whilst in reality the Budget increases the real costs of the services, Labor will take positive fiscal steps, through the Budget, to offset the higher costs of capital equipment. At the moment it is a cross-subsidy of people who are called on to subsidise higher capital cost equipment. If this is done regardless of the departments involved- one looks at decentralisation, primary industry and the like- it is right and proper for the particular department to look at the subsidy and not to throw it back to the consumer who is paying excessive rates despite the profits of Telecom in the telecommunications area. The loan funds policy confirms the Government 's policy of handouts and its snide support of private capital interests. 
By forcing Telecom to take public loan funds for 18 per cent of its capital requirements, the Government is redistributing public funds from Telecom's purse into the hands of those financiers which play the private capital market. A loss of public wealth results with every interest payment to these pinstriped loan sharks. There are plenty of them about. Some of them occupy seats on the other side of the House. Loan funds provided through the Budget mean that the capital will remain in public hands. The Government provides the funds to a statutory body which repays the loan with interest back to the Government. Labor may look at charging the loan against the appropriate department. As I have pointed out, this is one of the areas that ought to be investigated. Community subsidisation of rural areas, as is the case at present, is unimportant; the end result is that the capital remains in public hands. Under this Government's policy of forcing Telecom on to the local market, the statutory body repays the loans at higher interest rates to the individuals who exploit it. 
As the shadow Minister in this area I have developed a comprehensive program for lowering telephone costs across the community, reducing the problems faced by country subscribers and bringing the justice of community need, not the greed of private capital, into the forefront of government policy. In a related area relevant to the portfolio, the Budget has failed to provide for new avenues of income for Australia Post and Telecom which could increase their revenues and provide cheaper, more efficient services to subscribers. Again, many of these areas eat into the autonomy of private multinationals in the market place. Again, I suggest that the Government has a deliberate policy of undermining the public sector for their benefit. Australia Post and Telecom have extensive estate interests which are not being fully utilised. It is a known fact that the telecommunications terrestrial system is 50 per cent utilised. Some capital investment is needed in a very efficient enterprise which is making enormous profits at the moment. Surely it is worthy of that investment. A Labor government would investigate the needs of the commissions and turn real estate into profit through leasing and rentals, if necessary acting as a developer. Too often, private developers make huge profits at the taxpayer's expense. They will do it in Canberra. 
I believe that another service which Australia Post could offer would be to act as agent for several government departments where there are possibilities to develop such services. That statutory body could receive an agent's fee for these services. The benefits are clearly two-fold: Firstly, Australia Post would increase its income potential; and, secondly, the local post office would provide a much needed and valuable public service by decentralising many government services. I believe that the Government also serves its private capital backers by taking no action against services which clearly abrogate the postal and telecommunications Acts. Many message and letter delivery services challenge the common carrier sections of the Acts. Many private telecommunications services certainly bear investigation. A Labor government would investigate these practices and take legal action against them where necessary. 
Rather than acting to pursue the law, this Government is openly condoning and often encouraging these services in direct competition with the Public Service. One of the major areas of potential public income not tapped by this Government is the area of business and special telephone services presently dominated by multinational cartels. Telecom has not been encouraged and /or allowed to enter this lucrative field. Advances in switchboards, such as the new private automatic branch exchange, and new types of telephones which simplify business calls are being marketed by private companies while Telecom workshops are quite capable of developing and marketing these services. What is worse is that often Telecom officers effectively work as public relations agents for private companies. The only new area which Telecom has entered is the push-button telephone which has very dubious advantages. As many honourable members will realise, the really lucrative new markets are untouched. Labor would make Telecom compete vigorously for these markets. We would also prevent practices whereby Telecom workshops in the past have improved and developed products which have then been used by the private developers to increase their profits. This Budget attacks none of these problems. 
Telecom also expects to increase its extortionate profits by a further enormous amount this year. Its recently published 'Service and Business Outlook for 1979/80' does not estimate in so many words what this increase will be or even let on to the Parliament and the public that there will be an increase. But the booklet mentions an expected 9 per cent increase in earnings and only an 8 per cent increase in costs. A little arithmetic with previous figures leads me to believe that Telecom's profit may therefore rise by up to $40m to a figure in excess of $220m. We are not opposed to profits per se. We are opposed to lining the pockets of individuals who serve the Government. That money must be ploughed into rendering a proper effective service to all Australians. The program of country telephone automatic connections is not gaining its promised expansion. In some areas Telecom admits that connection times for new telephone services will increase to an admitted time span of several months. 
The most drastic reduction in service to the public by Telecom is the continued winding down of the telegram service. Although telegram prices have increased every year since 1974-75, they are to rise again this year. At the same time, Telecom expects 12 per cent less telegram traffic and lower staff needs in the area. There is a deliberate sabotage of the service. The cost of the service to people who do not have a telephone and who need a service of that nature is exorbitant. From next month it will cost $4.30 to messenger deliver a 12-word telegram. An urgent telegram of the same sort will cost $8.60 to deliver- over 70c a word. The cheapest practicable means of delivering a telegram- by telephone- will cost $3, and $6 if it is urgent. That is 50c a word. The easiest but totally nonpracticable method of delivery for Telecom is by post. A 12-word telegram will cost only $2.50. However, the business community is a little better served. The smallest percentage increase in telegram costs, a mere 1 1 per cent, goes to telegrams delivered by telex which are a snip at $2 a pop. The reason for constant rises in telegram costs is Telecom's futile commitment to the user pays principle, a principle worthy of substantial review and little else. Clearly, there are disadvantaged groups within the community. I am thinking also of country users who deserve crosssubsidisation by their more fortunate neighbours. Some services deserve continuation despite a continuing loss. They should not be priced out of reach for those who desire and need them. 
Telecom expects this year to increase its staff by only 0.3 per cent or roughly 250 people in a total work force of 90,000. Australia Post expects a similar increase in a staff of 31,500 after reductions last financial year. It is not right in these times of drastic unemployment and the hardship associated with it that those who can afford to carry more of the burden, such as our profitable public enterprises, do not do so. Hiring rates should be increased. It is not as though there is no work to be done. Telecom admits that it will take longer to provide some services than it did last year. Telecom has said: 
In some districts, particularly New South Wales and Queensland, demand will exceed Telecom's ability to provide service- hence connection times will increase. It may not be possible to allot new telephone numbers from a few exchanges for periods extending to several months. 
We all know that when bureaucracy forecasts waiting periods of several months some people at least will wait much longer. 
The deceit and deception of the Government's Budget strategy is inherent in the estimates for each of the departments for which I am responsible as Opposition spokesman in this House. It is a Budget of deceit and deception. The amendment moved by the honourable member for Gellibrand points this out. If Government members had any conscience whatsoever they would support the amendment and oppose the strategy that is contained in this Budget, which is a very vicious Budget that will do nobody in the community any good. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I rise in the adournment debate this evening to raise two matters and to make some protest about the way in which Government members- in particular, Ministers- attack unions in this chamber. They come into this chamber and make most misleading statements. They are a complete fabrication of the situation. They lead people to believe that the activities of organisations such as the Building Workers Industrial Union of Australia and the Australian Telecommunications Employees Association are designed simply to disrupt industries rather than to present legitimate claims on behalf of their members. 
This afternoon we heard the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Groom)  say that there had been an attack on the sub-contracting system by members of the BWIU and other building trade unions. The Minister's whole speech was a fabrication of the situation. The situation clearly is that the unions themselves are not condemning the sub-contracting system; on the contrary, they are defending the subcontractors in that area for the purpose of maintaining a level that is at least equivalent to the minimum prescribed award rates. 
Master builders and building organisations have given evidence to the inquiry that is being conducted in New South Wales. They have attested to the fact that sub-contractors have been forced to sign documentation that, in effect, would place the extent of their capacity to earn the minimum prescribed award rates at risk. In so doing, a situation is being created in the building industry in which the quality of housing construction is being undermined by people being forced into taking contracts that it is very difficult for them to fulfil. The whole basis of the submissions by the builders, the unions and the great majority of contractors has been along those lines. Yet this afternoon the Minister came into this House and lied to the Parliament - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member will withdraw that remark. 
-I withdraw it. The Minister handled the truth rather carelessly. The whole position is clearly outlined in the material that was placed before the New South Wales inquiry. It seems to me that if Ministers mislead the Parliament in that way, they ought to be held responsible for any industrial disputation that arises out of the statements that they make. The position of the people who act in a responsible way in presenting the arguments of the people who are being exploited by builders and master builders in the sub-contracting field ought to be defended. 
Let me turn now to the telecommunications dispute. In that dispute, the public of this country was held to ransom by stand-over tactics of the Government that prevented the Australian Telecommunications Commission from negotiating on a proper and legitimate claim by Telecom employees. At the time the dispute was in its infancy  Mr Justice  Staples, in criticising both the Government and the Telecommunications Commission, referred the parties to the dispute to a conference in an endeavour to find a way around a legitimate claim. What happened was that this 
Government laid down its declaration to the Telecommunications Commission and prevented the Commission from negotiating an agreement. What happened after that? The matter finally went before the Full Bench of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, which found that the union had a legitimate claim. The matter has now been referred back to the parties involved to do what they should have done in the first place. Who is responsible for that situation? The people who sit on the other side of this House. Once again the union bashing policies of the Government have led to industrial disputation in order to serve the political aspirations of the Government. They are two examples that ought to be taken on board. As far as we are concerned, if industrial disputation should arise out of the irresponsible statement made this afternoon by the Minister for Housing and Construction the responsibility lies with the Government. 
-Once again we have heard an outburst from people whose ideology is further to the right than that of Ghengis Khan. They have illustrated the deception, deceit, dishonesty and double standards that this Government's policies stand for. 
Let us examine the matter of public importance brought before the Parliament. Government supporters talk about the necessity for the Government to reaffirm the rule of law. What they are reaffirming is a law that applies only to one section of the community. The law that has governed the operation of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission since its inauguration has been based on the two processes of conciliation and arbitration. Conciliation has played as big a part in industrial relations as arbitration. The honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  did not refer specifically to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. The Government should come clean. It wants to perpetrate on the Australian work force a system of compulsory arbitration. The four unique elements of compulsory arbitration are these: First, the parties are forced to appear before a tribunal, either because the tribunal so ordains or because one of the parties seeks an arbitrated settlement; second, a settlement is determined by the tribunal without the parties' prior agreement to accept and abide by that determination; third, penalties are imposed for non-compliance with the determination; and, fourth, the penalties imposed are implemented and fines collected. That is the sort of law that the Government wants to perpetrate on the unions in this country. The employers, those who exploit individuals and those who do not even pay award rates, are to be allowed to run scot free. There is to be a law for one section of the community which does not apply to other sections. 
This debate has thrown up the whole question of conciliation and arbitration in this country. The Government ought to be cognisant of one point. Any attack on the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in the spirit of what has been said by Government speakers this evening brings about the wrath of the individuals who work under the system. The Bruce-Page Government was brought down by the sort of attack that honourable members opposite have made, not only tonight but also as pan of the union bashing process which they have carried out ever since the Government came to office. The Government wants to bring the unions within the area of common law. It wants to destroy the application of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. It wants to apply the common law to unions. That is what it attempted to do in the Australian Postal Commission dispute. Any obligation on employers under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act would be set aside. That is what the Government is all about. It wants to restrict the ambit of the trade union movement in this country so as to destroy it. It wants to produce tame cat unions. It wants to stand over those who, in very difficult circumstances, do their best to represent the people who form the unions. We are talking about the application of vicious penal codes that would bring the trade union movement to its knees. The Government should hearken to a note of warning. This action was tried in the 1960s. It led to the gaoling of a trade union official when he gave effect to a decision of his own organisation. What the trade union movement told the Government then is what it will say in the future. I hope it will continue to say it. It said: 'We will not pay the fine. You come and get it. If you gaol every trade union official in this country we will not bow to that suppression. Those are the tactics that Hitler adopted in Germany. They are the tactics of other totalitarian dictatorships. They will not work in this country. ' 
I now address myself to another aspect of this so-called matter of public importance. As my friend the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  has said, the Government produced the lowliest back bencher in the place, who would not have enough brains to give himself a headache, to bring forward a matter of public importance which should have been handled by the responsible Minister. I want to refer to the attack, a fabrication, made by the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Groom)  yesterday. He came into the Parliament and accused the Building Workers Industrial Union of attacking the contract system in the building industry. The public stance of the Building Workers Industrial Union in the current New South Wales inquiry into building subcontracting has been to support the continuation of the contract system. 
In his outburst the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Burr)  quoted another genius, the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Birney),  who said that people working under the body hire system were better off than individuals working under the award. The sworn evidence to the inquiry of some contract workers has revealed that their average income is $280 for an average of 48 hours per week, out of which they have to pay $50 a week for expenses such as supplying material, petrol, power tools, equipment et cetera. Out of that sum they have to allow a further $72 a week for sick pay, annual leave, public holidays and wet weather. This leaves $158 a week. On the other hand an award worker gets $230.50 for a 40-hour week plus all conditions and has no expenses. Of the witnesses 90 per cent said that their rates were not freely negotiated. Forty per cent said that they had been coerced into signing agreements to pay long service leave premiums to the Builders Licensing Board. One said that his name had been forged. Fifty-five per cent said that they had not been paid for work which they had performed. Some witnesses stated that their rates had not been adjusted for three years. 
I had something to do with the building industry when representing the Electrical Trades Union of Australia before tribunals in this country. People were going bankrupt because of the pressures applied by master builders. People were left lamenting after spending years in the service of an employer who was not able to pay their long service leave. Weeks of back pay were never recovered. They were the losers. If individuals are thrown on to the open market and not brought within State or Federal laws it is a prescription for disaster. A number of witnesses at the New South Wales inquiry said that many skilled tradesmen are leaving the industry. This will create serious problems for home seekers who want quality workmanship and homes built on time. One witness stated that he was forced to sell his house and move after he was blacklisted for asking for the proper, agreed rate. 
Because of this damning evidence the Housing Industry Association and the Master Builders Association are now making outrageous statements attacking the building unions and distorting the evidence presented in the inquiry. The Housing Industry Association has issued contradictory statements. On 10 July 1979  Mr Sellars  of the Housing Industry Association said that housing costs would go up by 25 per cent if the submissions of the Building Workers Industrial Union were implemented. On 15 August 1979  Mr Kirkby-  Jones of the Housing Industry 
Association said that they would go up by 10 per cent. This shows that wild guesses and irresponsible statements are made not only by Government supporters in the debate this evening but also by individuals who want to perpetrate on people who earn their livelihoods in the contracting section, as well as other sections of the building industry, on wages which are below the standards prescribed by the tribunals of this country. 
The real position is that housing costs will not alter at all as a result of the unions' submissions unless the State Industrial Commission decides that the rates paid are less than the total value of the remuneration paid to an award worker, which is in conformity with the law as stated under section 88F of the Industrial Arbitration Act. The statements of the Housing Industry Association and the Master Builders Association are an admission that the rates paid are less than what the law prescribes. This matter of public importance, like all the matters of public importance that emanate from the other side of the House, is a phoney. As far as the law is concerned, all the Government wants to do is stand over the unions and bring workers to their knees. That will never happen. This matter of public importance is a phoney, as the evidence before the tribunal indicates. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. The discussion is concluded. 
-by leave-The Opposition has no real argument about the statement made by the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Ellicott)  because it does not contain very much at all. All he said was that the report has been available and he has been giving consideration to its recommendations for some considerable time. I hope that the Minister will give the Opposition sufficient notice of the announcement of the Government's response to the recommendations to enable us to do justice to the debate which will take place in this chamber and in the community at large on this very important issue affecting the city of Canberra. I make that request to the Minister and hope that the Government's response to the recommendations comes before the Parliament in such a way that the debate will proceed in a proper manner. 
-Honourable members have heard another tirade from the lightweight champion of the back bench, the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Burr).  It seems to me that the Government pays scant respect to the seriousness of this debate when it allows such an instant expert- by the sound of his speech, he became an expert two minutes ago- to speak on industrial matters. The Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Bill is just another saga in the ever-continuing philosophy of the Government to set upon the unions, to destroy the mouthpiece of millions of workers in this country and to make the tamecat organisations about which Ben Chifley talked a matter of course. Time and time again the Government has tried to stand over the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, make it a regulator of the economy, a scapegoat for the Government and a body which will carry out all the decisions imposed upon it by the Government's philosophy when the Government does not have enough guts to carry them out itself. 
Let us look at the provisions of the legislation. One provision stopping the Arbitration Commission from acting in certain ways will probably prove to be invalid. I will pay some attention to that in a few moments. No doubt, despite the protestations of those on the other side of the House, it will be challenged on constitutional grounds. The Government is trying to tell the Commission how to conduct its business. The new measures will lead to greater industrial trouble and the implementation of the provisions will be a tragedy. I am not referring to the remarks of a trade union leader who has just read this draconian Bill but to comments that were made today by the member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  when citing  Mr Justice  Kirby.  Mr Justice  Kirby is a long-time honoured member of the Full Bench. Who would have the courage to stand up in this House or anywhere else and criticise the service that  Sir Richard  Kirby gave to the Abitration Commission. I am sure the Minister for Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  would not, and I do not believe that anybody else would either. 
The remarks of  Sir Richard  Kirby referred to by the honourable member for Port Adelaide are fundamental to any argument that leads to the questioning of the bona fides of this legislation. 
As I pointed out the other night, this is not just a series of amendments that go to the point of tidying up what has been a tried and tested piece of legislation. The procedures and principles of the present Conciliation and Arbitration Act have been used by many people on both sides of the fence in the interests of industrial relations. If the accent is taken away from conciliation and we move once again, as the honourable member for Port Adelaide has pointed out, to compulsory arbitration, we have to take the consequences. I indicated some days ago in a previous debate that a number of principles underlie a compulsory arbitration system. It really takes the accent away from conciliation, the process by which people sit across the table from one another in an endeavour to establish their bona fides and resolve an industrial dispute. Once a dispute is under way, the only manner in which it can be resolved satisfactorily at any time is by conciliation. 
Time and dme again people have tried to impose a compulsory arbitration system on the workers of this country and their representatives, and they have all failed. They have failed because of one essential reason to which I have referred before. When penalties are imposed for non-compliance with arbitration decisions it is up to the courts to collect the money. All the four elements that are inherent in such an arbitration system failed at the time of the O'Shea case in Victoria. They failed because the trade union movement was not convinced that it should commit itself to or abide by a compulsory arbitration system. They failed because the unions refused to pay the fines, and they will refuse to pay the fines in the future. More power to their arm, because any compulsory arbitration system is doomed to failure. 
Time and time again honourable members have seen the policies of the Government spat out by either the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  or his lackey at the table at the moment, the Minister for Industrial Relations, who through the course of an industrial dispute pour petrol on the fires of discontent in the industrial area. I refer to the telecommunications, postal and transport disputes, and the other disputes that have occurred over the last 12 or 1 8 months. Each and every time we have heard the Prime Minister or somebody from his side of the House say that there will be no movement away from the decisions taken by the Commission on principles put before it and there will be no movement away from the wage guidelines. Lo and behold, on every occasion without exception, how have the disputes been resolved? They have been resolved by negotiation and discussions about all the questions. 
A classic example is the telecommunications dispute. The Australian Telecommunications Commission, after many months of attempted negotiation by the union, refused to negotiate any further. Why did it do that? Because the Government stood right over the top of it and told it that it was not to negotiate in that way and that any decision had to be taken before the Arbitration Commission. Lo and behold, when the matter finally went before the Full Bench- not because the unions wanted the dispute to go there but because, through considerations of public interest, the unions were reaching a stage in the dispute when they had to move a little to gain a little- the Full Bench decided that it was an anomaly to have a $20 difference between the amount being paid to Telecom workers and the amount being paid to workers in like classifications in private enterprise. At the present moment, that dispute is once again getting to a point where negotiations will take place and, once again, it will be resolved by that means. 
I have made reference to the postal dispute. Again, there is a different tack by the Government but it comes down to the same issue. It has been said that the question of no work, no pay is outside the jurisdiction of the Commission and, therefore, the matter can not be handled properly by the industrial tribunals of this country but should be taken to common law. When it suits the Government to have parties to a dispute go outside industrial tribunals in this country, it will advocate such action. When it suits the Government it introduces legislation of this nature for the express purpose of attempting to cajole the unions and the Commission into giving effect to its policies. The honourable member for Port Adelaide dealt with a whole range of discrepancies in the Bill. He pointed to the viciousness with which its provisions are to be applied and to some aspects that will be and must be under challenge by the trade union movement. 
Perhaps time did not permit him to deal with one of the most important aspects of the Bill, namely, the question of deregistration of unions. The deregistration provisions go a lot further than one would have expected in the past. If deregistration took place in the past there was a limit to the extent that the union would find itself out of the traditional areas of the trade union movement. 
Proposed new section 143 A, which is sought to be inserted into the Act, will give to the Governor-General a wide range of powers which may be exercised against unions which take industrial action which has a substantial adverse effect on the safety, health or welfare of the community. What industrial dispute could one envisage that does not come within that category? That provision is about as wide and embracing as it could possibly be. There would be very few disputes that would be outside that interpretation of this proposed new section. If that is not the case then the Minister for Industrial Relations, who is at the table, has a responsibility to explain what that really means. 
The proposed section allows the Minister to apply for a declaration from a full bench of the Commission that industrial action by a union or its members has had, is having or is likely to have a substantial adverse effect on the safety, health or welfare of the community. That part of the proposed new section will have application not only to the community as a whole but also to part of the community. Where a declaration is made the Governor-General may, within a six-month period, order the deregistration of the union concerned, or in heu of, or before ordering the deregistration he may do certain other things. I will go on to point out what these things are in a few minutes. In that six-month period the Minister will sit there like God and say: 'You move one inch out of line and, as far as we are concerned, down will come the back of the axe in typical fashion and that union will be dealt with'. 
But that provision does not stop there. Let us read the next part of the proposed new section. It says that the Governor-General may suspend any of the rights, privileges or capacities of the union or all or any of its members under the Act or under any award; give directions as to the exercise of any rights, privileges or capacities that have been suspended; and provide for restricting the use of the funds or property of the union or branch and for the control of those funds or that property for the purpose of ensuring observance of the restrictions. In other words, the GovernorGeneral may, for example, suspend the benefits flowing to members of the union under an award or may take control of the funds of the union in order to prevent the payment of strike pay or the publication of any material relating to the industrial action. 
That is about as vicious a clause that one could possibly imagine. I have a copy of the Essential Services Bill which came before the Queensland Parliament on 4 September. Only that Bill, which was initiated in the fascist State in Australia, goes to lengths greater than those contained in the amending legislation which is before us today. The Minister sitting at the table is carrying out the fascist style dictates of the Prime Minister to  whom he pays homage. That is what all the individuals on the back bench on the Government side are associating themselves with. This particular clause of the legislation must put to challenge the trade union movement. I believe that strong words are coming from a very weak stomach. We have heard all the gesticulations and seen the waving of arms of members of the Parliament. We have heard all the cajoling that has occurred and we have seen the  goaling  of people. Do what the Government may, this section is doomed to failure because the Government is painting the trade union movement into a corner. It is forcing the trade union movement to stand up and fight because no organisation worth its salt would accept this vicious legislation under any circumstances. 
Where the registration of a union has been cancelled under proposed section  143 A,  the union may not be re-registered without the consent of the Governor-General. Where a union is re-registered subject to a condition specified by the Governor-General the Minister may at any time apply to a Full Bench of the Commission for a declaration that the union has not complied with the condition. Where such a declaration is made the Governor-General may again exercise the powers which I have just set out. 
What sort of  draconion  powers are they? What union could accept them? If the Minister still intends to hold the bludgeon over the head of the unions, what recourse do the unions have? There is only one recourse open to them. I refer to what happened in the O'Shea case. Is the Government prepared to take that sort of action? If it is not, the Minister has a responsibility to stand up and tell the public at large how he proposes to give effect to the provisions of this legislation, instead of sitting there sucking his pen while giving effect to everything that the Prime Minister says and tagging behind him like a lap dog. The Minister has a responsibility to the people of Australia, to the Parliament, and to the unions to explain precisely what this provision means. 
The four objections to proposed new section  143A  are: The use of the severe sanctions contained in the proposed new section is unlikely to assist with the settlement of industrial disputes; in fact, the use of such sanctions usually has the effect of exacerbating the industrial situation. That has been the history of the use of such sanctions. If honourable members read any of the works that have been produced in relation to the effects of the compulsory arbitration system, such as those by  Foernander  and Portus, or any of the other individuals, or even by  Mr Justice 
Woodward himself, one would then reach conclusions similar to those that I am reaching as a result of looking at just one clause of the Bill. The honourable member for Port Adelaide dealt comprehensively with many other clauses of the Bill. 
The second objection is that the proposed section provides wide scope for the LiberalNational Country Party Government to interfere in industrial disputes for political reasons and without regard to the interests of the parties or to the real interests of the community. The honourable member for Wilmot who spoke in the debate asked: Why should people be paid strike pay? What would happen- this does not happen, as people who have had experience in the building industry in particular know- if we had a situation of people having to work with unsafe methods. For instance, in 1957 a crane on a building in Melbourne collapsed, killing about five people and maiming about 30. There were many deputations to the company regarding that job but those deputations were ignored. The company had to wait until somebody was killed before it did anything about it. If industrial action is taken under those conditions and if the employer is responsible, why should the employer not pay for what he has caused? 
And the King Street bridge was another one. The King Street bridge was a classic example where some 30-odd people were killed. 
-The honourable member for Hotham would laugh at people who suffered the indignity of their breadwinner being killed. I hope that the honourable member will tell the people in Hotham that because I certainly will. 
Parts of the Bill are draconian and vicious. They will incite industrial action the like of which has never been seen before. I have dealt with two major objections to proposed new section 143A. The third objection is that the proposed section ignores the existing safeguard of a full judicial examination before the serious step of deregistering a union is taken; the Government may, by Executive act, deregister or take control of a union. The proposed new section is designed to promote pimps, scabs and bludgers in union to do the bidding of this Government and anybody who wants to destroy the trade union movement. Turning to our fourth objection, there is no evidence of recent experience in this country either that there is a need for such a severe sanction as is proposed or that such a sanction would play a constructive part in the situation contemplated. In fact, history goes the other way, as I have pointed out and as I am sure other speakers will. 
Finally, there may be constitutional problems with the proposed new section 143 A. For example it may be argued that the definition of industrial action in section 4 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act may need to be read down so that only industrial action having an interstate component is covered. This argument is at present before the High Court in the case of the Amalgamated Metal Workers and Shipwrights Union v. Wood. They are the issues under challenge. They will be challenged in the courts and by every worker and by every union that is worth its salt. 
I will take a very short time to reply to the explanation given by the Minister for Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  as to just what this clause means. If it simply means what he says it means, there is no point whatsoever in the provisions of the clause being included in the Act. One person came clean on the whole issue. If the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman)  belongs to the Government Members Industrial Committee, he has had the benefit of knowing something of the discussions that led to the inclusion of this clause. I give him credit for at least being honest. He put his finger right on what we are saying is the meaning and effect of this clause. He pointed out that one of the issues that motivates the philosophy for the inclusion of the clause is the protection of indexation. He went on to say that a de- 1cision taken by  Mr Commissioner  Deverall was in fact at the core of the Telecom Australia dispute. If catch-up arrangements and the on-going question of whether indexation will survive or fail were the reason for its inclusion, it has the desired effect. But it does not have the effect that the Minister has spelled out in addressing this Committee. 
I agree with indexation if it is full indexation. The whole question relates to arrangements between parties in negotiation. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding)  put his finger right on it. The whole basis of the settlement of industrial disputes in this country harks back to  Mr Justice  Higgins and the principles that have been built up over years and years of discussion and people applying themselves in an endeavour to resolve industrial disputes. 
One would have to be naive to accept the explanations of the Minister. If a commissioner had considered indexation and the effect of flow-on and catch-up arrangements, had negotiated with the parties and listened to all their arguments, and had taken into account the inspections and the complicated aspects of consultation and attempts to conciliate on a dispute, one would have to be mad to expect that a presidential member, after consultation with the commissioner, could intelligently consider the merits of what might be an important decision that could change the course of an entire industry in respect of wages and conditions. He would never be in a position to do it. Forcing members of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to consult under the circumstances that the Minister has outlined is a load of tripe. One would have to be absolutely naive to accept the Minister's explanation. When the so-called half smart lawyers who represent employers before the Commission talk about literal interpretations of the word consult', what the Minister spells out in this 
Committee will not be taken into account. The literal interpretation of the terminology used in the Act is the one which will be taken into account. The representatives will be arguing about whether or not 'consult' means that the commissioner ought to take direction, in effect, from the presidential member who is involved. 
Why is the Minister not honest about it? If he means what he says he has an obligation to withdraw the clause. As the honourable member for Melbourne Ports pointed out, the clause is sloppy and it will create all the problems in the world. It will be open to interpretation and the lawyers will have a bonanza arguing about it before the Commission. I have spent enough time in the Commission to know that they will hang on any word. The fact is that the honourable member for Mitchell has put his finger on the real motive behind this clause. He has asked me about indexation. Indexation was agreed to and one party involved in the discussions set about breaking down the principle on which it was established, that is, the principle of full indexation. That is what broke down the principle of full indexation. It had nothing to do with the organisations. It is a matter for the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission or for an individual commissioner to determine what is fair and reasonable under all the circumstances. 
As the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  pointed out, all this Government wants the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to be is a regulator of the economy, a body to give effect to the policies and the economic philosophies of the Government. Because the Government is incompetent it cannot come to grips with the economic problems that bedevil the community. It wants to pass the buck to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. If that is not involved in this consultation that the honourable member for Mitchell talks about, why did he raise the question of indexation? Why did the honourable member raise the question of flow-on and mention the Telecom dispute? I know a great deal about Commissioner Deverall. I worked with him for years. 
In the Arbitration Commission, in the Industrial Court, a place which you have never seen. The real point here is that Deverall, even if he had consulted- he was not forced to take direction- would not have changed one word of his determination. Of course, Deverall and all the other commissioners consult. They consult on an on-going basis. If decisions are taken and guidelines are established, do honourable members think that Deverall would not know anything at all about it? Consulting is not a matter of just having a cup of tea, getting out some knitting and having a chat about some of the issues involved in the case. It is not like that at all. Resolving an industrial dispute is a matter of applying what is fair and reasonable. One cannot simply take a whole series of inspections and discussions and whatever might have been negotiated, consider some principles that were determined in previous cases and then consult with a presidential member of the Commission who has not had the benefit of all that, and expect him to understand the ramifications of what has occurred. That suggestion is a load of claptrap. That is not the philosophy behind the Government's move. Once again, the Government's philosophy is to put the Arbitration Commission in a straitjacket. If that is the case then, as my friends have pointed out, this legislation is challengeable. If the Government is to restrict the ambit and area of influence of the Arbitration Commission, at whatever level, in resolving industrial disputes, surely this is not only Draconian legislation but legislation which is outside the principles of conciliation and arbitration. I will give the honourable member for Mitchell credit for at least being honest. He pointed out the real reason behind the move and did not offer the mealy-mouthed excuse given by the Minister for Industrial Relations. 

 -Mr Chairman - 
Question (by  Mr Hodges)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 29 August 1979: 
) Was an inspection of post offices carried out in the Nambucca Heads area, New South Wales this year; if so, was the inspection carried out by one man equipped with an air-conditioned, V-8 Fairlane 500 motor vehicle. 
Is this use of an expensive, overly powerful, high fuel consuming motor car wasteful in today's energy-conscious world; if not, why not. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Post and Telecommunications been drawn to a media report relating to the acceptance by a recently retired senior member of the defence forces of an important position with Ford Aerospace and Communications Corporation? Does the Minister accept that there may be a conflict of interest for the brigadier resulting from his new employment and his recent employment as a Department of Defence representative on the Government task force which recommended a domestic satellite for Australia? Is the Ford Aerospace and Communications Corporation a likely, or indeed probable, supplier for any Australian domestic satellite? Especially in the light of paragraph 3.24 in the recent Public Service Board document Guidelines on Official Conduct of Commonwealth Public Servants', does the Minister consider that the brigadier's new employment did not influence the result of the task force inquiry in any way and that he is acting and has acted with complete propriety? Has the brigadier complied with paragraph 3.25 of those published guidelines? That paragraph reads: 
Until decisions on the recommendations of the Inquiry Concerning Public Duty and Private Interest have been taken, staff contemplating employment with a business organisation after separation from the Service should, at an early stage, seek guidance from their Permanent Head or the Public Service Board, if there is any possibility that questions of propriety could arise. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 20 September 1979: 
What are his Department's guidelines regulating the use, by private individuals and companies engaging in profit-making business activities, of public places such as community halls, public parks and reserves, administered by bis Department. 
What charges are levied for the use of (a) public facilities and (b) public risk insurance for patrons, spectators and passers-by. 
Do some community organisations book community facilities in their name and then cede the use to commercial organisations; if so, what action is taken by his Department in relation to this practice. 
What guidelines apply to the use by private individuals or companies of the area known as Equestrian Park. 
Do these guidelines differ from those pertaining to other public places administered by his Department; if so, why. 
-by leave-The Australian Labor Party is not opposed to a domestic communications satellite per se. It is clear to us that a communications satellite can be a boon to the nation as a whole and to outback people in particular. However, we are far from satisfied with the Government's thinking on the matter in general and particularly with the statement today by the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley).  Just to elucidate the Opposition's viewpoint towards a communications satellite, I will read the policy adopted at the Australian Labor Party Conference held in July of this year in Adelaide. It reads: 
In the development and use of a domestic communications satellite in Australia, a Labor Government must be satisfied that Australia's security would not be endangered and that the following requirements are guaranteed- 
maintenance of the terrestrial system of internal communications; 
expansion by Telecom of telephone and broadcasting services to the needs of isolated rural communities; 
public investment in Telecom facilities is not jeopardised; 
maintenance of employment opportunities; 
no increase in private ownership monopoly of media and communications; 
public ownership and management of the satellite; and 
independence of news and cultural content. 
It is clear to me that we disagree with the Minister's statement in many areas. The most important of these is in the maintenance of employment opportunities and the monopoly control of the media. However, I maintain that there is a difference in degree in all the requirements of the Australian Labor Party and the commitment to those requirements by the Fraser Government and by the Minister. At this time the ALP is particularly wary, and so should be the Government, of a policy which will produce a dramatic and continued loss of jobs. The working group report rejects the idea that unemployment will result from the construction of the satellite but the Australian Labor Party, the union movement and many Australians have strong doubts on this subject. The working group gave the matter scant consideration, but I will come to that later. 
I must point out that the working group report was not produced with unanimity. Both the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet and the Department of Finance dissent from the report in important paragraphs. The Minister has firmly announced today that the satellite will go ahead. He has invited 'expressions of interest' from technology suppliers. However, the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet recommends 'the deferment of an immediate decision' and the production of a 'costed planning proposal within one year'. The Department of Finance is even more lukewarm about the whole thing. It has recommended putting off the project for two or three years and then having another look at it. Furthermore, the Department of Finance is critical of any establishment of another statutory authority to run the satellite. But the Minister has had his way in Cabinet, despite the presumed opposition of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson).  I hardly think that the axiom 'fools rush in where angels fear to tread ' is completely apposite, but at least half of it is. 
In examining the worth or otherwise of the project, the question the Opposition must ask itself is: A satellite for Australia- who really benefits? In addressing myself to that question I shall detail the concern of the Opposition regarding the many as yet unanswered questions about satellite use. These centre upon cost, time, utility, dangers of monopoly of the media and possible unemployment resulting from the satellite use in Australia. 
The Minister, in the opening remarks of his statement, gave an account of the actions that his Government had taken on satellite use since late 1977. The Minister's account was not quite as full as it ought to have been. Let me review the real train of events that have led to this Government 's commitment to satellite use. Telecom Australia and its predecessor, the Postal Department have constantly reviewed the application of utility of satellites in the Australian telecommunications network. Their work dates back to the mid-1960s and in late 1977, at the very time when the Minister for Post and Telecommunications was commissioning a task force, the Telecom satellite study group reported: 
It is not possible at this time to establish a quantitative economic case to justify the provision of a national satellite system. 
That remains Telecom 's position today. Why did the Minister for Post and Telecommunications in 1977 proceed with the satellite inquiry? Why does the Minister today still refuse to accept the advice and opinion of Telecom on satellite use? Quite simply, the Minister, prefers, as did his predecessor, the advice from other quartersfrom private corporate interests. Had the Minister been intent on giving a full account of his Government's action on an Australian satellite, he would surely have made some passing reference to the influence of  Mr Kerry  Packer, to IBM Australia Ltd, to the Ford Aerospace Communications Corporation, et cetera. In late 1 977, Telecom again concluded against satellite use in Australia. 
In August 1977  Mr Packer  gave to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications a report entitled 'The Opportunities for the Distribution of Television Programmes by Earth Satellite'. The Minister embraced that report. He took its terms of reference for the task force. He stacked that task force with satellite enthusiasts. He stacked that inquiry against Telecom. Telecom Australia telecommunications experts had only one member out of 12 on that inquiry. But the Overseas Telecommunications Commission, an avowed satellite enthusiast had two members, even though it has no responsibility for telecommunications within Australia. The inquiry was chaired by  Mr Harold  White- maybe soon to be  Sir Harold  White; I wonder why- then  chairman  of OTC and an avowed satellite enthusiast. I do not question  Mr White's  or OTC's satellite competence, but I make this important point: International satellite use in which OTC is engaged is quite different from the use to which the satellite will be put in Australia. There is a quite a difference in using a satellite for trans-oceanic long haul trunk telecommunications and using a satellite for providing individual telephone services to remote homesteads. 
There is confusion about what satellites are really capable of, and this Government, in its willingness to meet the demands of corporate users has traded upon that confusion. Confusion over satellites is readily understood. A geostationary satellite 22,000 miles out in space is remote from the experience of most of us. The debate over satellites has been couched in technical jargon which confuses and misleads the prospective users of satellites, especially those in the remote areas who have been promised so much from this satellite proposal. 
The task force was a technical inquiry. It delighted in debate about antenna size and transponder power. It was unable to address itself to the most important question of real cost and time needed for satellite services. Its report was largely predictable, except for one important element- the dissenting statement of the Department of Finance.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I seek leave to have the statement incorporated in  Hansard. 
-Let us look at the satellite and just who really benefits. The central question in the satellite issue remains: Who will benefit; who will lose from these recommendations? That is a question that all people who are concerned or who are even vaguely interested in the social consequences of major governmental or industrial decisions must ask themselves constantly. The Minister has suggested that a satellite will benefit all Australians and indeed, in a peripheral sense in regard to meteorological information and so on, that is true. He has also stated that people in the outback will benefit a lot and insomuch as services are provided to them, services which some of them do not want and which many want far less than other services such as telephones, that is also true. The Minister has even hinted at groups in the community who will benefit in a big way. It is important that we con-  ssider  these matters further. He says: i 
Industry will be able to reap the benefit of investment 1 which has gone into space research to develop  communi-1  cations satellite technology.  I 
He also refers to a 'significantly increased ca- 1 pacify for distribution of bulk high speed data 1 communications, and to facilitating distribution of television programs and high-speed data (be- , tween capital cities and regional centres)'. This &lt; final quote really is the crunch: 
It is the Government's wish that private industry will be fully involved in the planning activities carried out by the " Satellite Project Office. i 
I put it to the Minister that other people con- !cerned with employment, for example, the peak i councils and the unions in particular whose , members stand to lose jobs that are now available to them, must surely be included in any  j  project committee or any body determining what should be recommended in the future. Private in- 1dustries in this country will be the biggest single ' winners in a new satellite system. That in itself is  j  not a bad thing, provided people do not get hurt. However, people will get hurt. Thousands will lose their jobs. The reason companies will take advantage of the new system will be to save money, and while some money will be saved by ( faster data communication, most will be saved because the human element will be largely ' eliminated. In other words, wages will not be ( paid and people will not be employed. 
The other group in the community who will benefit most are the national television networks. : The Minister is allocating them a transponder i each. They will then be able to blanket the country with their broadcasts, which for outback i people, at least those of them who yearn for the dubious benefit of viewing the adventures of Starsky and Hutchison, is not a bad thing. But it &lt; is a bad thing for the small regional television stations that service many country centres and towns. They are unanimously against the satellite because of their own economic self-interest. I charge the Minister with the responsibility of assuring this House that the assurances that he makes to individuals in that area are worth the paper they are printed on. Maybe the Minister can completely dissociate himself from them at some later time. How can these small regional television stations compete with the buying power of the major networks? They will therefore surely have poorer programs. They will, in all likelihood, receive a smaller share of the audience. They will lose advertising revenue for this reason and also because national advertisers, for convenience, will advertise with national stations. Many stations will have to sack staff and some will go to the wall. The result will be increased economic concentration in the cities, with a concomitant reduction in country based enterprise and an increase in country unemployment. The Minister does little to allay these fears when he states: 
We will certainly not be a party to developments which will allow any one broadcasting interest to control commercial television in this country. 
What does that mean? Country people who currently have local commercial television may lose it altogether or lose its local character. They may lose their jobs. However, on the credit side there is no doubt that some country people will benefit. The Minister rattled off the statistics showing how many Australians are without a decent telephone, television or radio service. He bore heavily on the lack of television and radio but made only passing reference to the need for telephones. He stated that 40,000 Australians have no prospect of being connected to the national telephone network via terrestrial means. He conveniently forgot to tell us whether a satellite system can rectify this problem. 
The first communication need of people in outback Australia is for a high quality telephone system to cater for their health, educational, commercial and social needs. Television is of only secondary importance to people with no telephone service. Yet no country has developed a satellite system that provides a telephone to single locations such as isolated homesteads. Not only will the satellite transponder need to be of much greater power than is currently commercially available but also the design and development of a ground station to suit these particular needs has yet to be commenced, let alone costed on an installed and working basis in remote Australia. A further point to consider is the switching requirements to interconnect the 40,000 Australians with each other, the rest of the nation and the world. If we are to provide the same individually private and secure system to these isolated people as we do to the rest of the community able to afford Telecom's charges then, unless we blast a telephone exchange into space along with the satellite, we will have to provide 40,000 individual circuits. This will take approximately 40 transponders, yet we note that only two or three transponders are provided for Telecom's use. No mention is made of their function. In fact, it is not intended to provide a telephone service to these people via satellite. Their plight is being used as an excuse to justify a satellite system which will be used for other purposes. 
The winners from this proposal are industry, the national TV networks and, to a smaller and rather unsatisfactory extent, outback people. Who then are the losers? The largest and most obviously group are the people who will lose their livelihood, their jobs, with the satellite's introduction. Massive numbers of people are involved- those in the newspaper and printing industry, the telecommunications and postal sectors, and people doing clerical work. It may be a matter for yawning to members of the National Country Party. Let us hope that they suffer accordingly. People involved are those doing clerical work in insurance and financial offices, banks and accounting practices, share brokers and those in every major industrial office tied to the satellite communications system. Satellite facsimile transmission will remove the need for many letters and so the people who produce, copy, mail, sort and deliver them will have their jobs threatened. People at present working throughout the telecommunications and postal industries have their employment under deep siege. It cannot be said that the satellite is the only way by which these tens of thousands of jobs are threatened. Technological change menaces these jobs constantly. However, the introduction of a satellite is a quantum leap in this regard. It will also bring about job losses years before they would have otherwise eventuated. 
The working group, the Minister and the Government have given insufficient regard to unemployment resulting from a satellite. The working group considers that it has received no firm evidence that a satellite will result in a net loss of jobs. That statement is partially a reflection on the working group itself. It was unable or unwilling to search out the needed information. The unions involved which made submissions to the group have firm estimates of the number of people under threat. The working group blithely states that any job loss from satellite technology will be balanced or even exceeded by new job opportunities resulting from the satellite. It suggests that these jobs will be created in the installation, operation and maintenance of equipment, services such as health, education and community organisations using satellite links and new unspecified types of employment available only if a satellite exists. Many of these jobs will be in the outback. Many will be for highly skilled or academically qualified people. Most of them will not be freely, easily and in some cases remotely available to those urban people in the printing, postal and clerical industries who will be put out of work. The new job opportunities are not likely to be ones favoured by women owing to their outback and /or technological nature. The satellite will bring about a discriminatory employment effect on women with many put out of work and few new attractive opportunities created. 
The working group's report extends to well over 200 pages but the community impact, including employment, received only five pages and employment effects are discussed in great profundity in just three pages. The many problems associated with unemployment and the satellite having been skimmed over in so little space, they are then dismissed with a recommendation that any needed retraining and redeployment activity should be undertaken. Given the difficulties which I have just outlined, redeployment and retraining will be totally ineffective for many people. It is, therefore, questionable in the extreme whether the report gave enough time, thought and research to the impact of a satellite on the community, especially the work force The Opposition remains unconvinced and it has no reason to doubt that this Government's decision serves corporate interests and not those of the Australian community. 
Why does the Opposition still question satellite use in Australia? Why can it not heartily endorse this proposal and exhibit the same small boy, big technology wonderment that has marked the Minister's enthusiasm for the satellite? One of the most unconvincing areas of the White task force's examination of the satellite was in regard to its costing. The task force report was simply not good enough but the Minister was not to be deterred. He convened the working group, an interdepartmental committee of which until today we have had no knowledge. The IDC was told to do the White inquiry's homework again and to come back with a more convincing argument. It has failed to do that. The working group's report remains as sketchy and lacking in detailed estimates of cost as did the White report. It concludes that it is questionable whether a satellite system would be economically viable. Page 1 86 of the report states: 
On the basis of the financial analysis, the working group has concluded that because of the quantum jump in capacity and the heavy pre-operational expenditures, the financial viability of a satellite system over the time space of the analysis is heavily dependent upon an early and substantial take-up in  capacity.  On current relative costs of terrestrial and satellite systems and on known communications requirements it is not clear that a basic satellite system could attract the required early users: 
Put simply, even the basic satellite system, one in which there are economies of scale, will not be viable. It will require a large subsidy that can come only from the pockets of ordinary Australians. That subsidy will make available to corporate users a satellite that will ideally suit their communication needs. If a basic satellite system cannot be viable how then is the model needed to provide telephony and television to remote areas to be made viable? Again, this will be done only by massive public subsidy. As the working group states on page 186 of its report, this would involve outlays in excess of $ 80 m for the provision of telephony and /or television services in remote areas. Even that estimate is guesswork. On page 187 the report states: 
In view of the uncertain level of cost involved, it is also suggested that a detailed study be undertaken of potential demand for and costs of provision of services to remote areas. 
The working group was unable to identify the costs of remote telephony and television via satellite. Yet the Minister has proceeded with emotive statements about ending the tyranny of distance and the isolation of people in the outback when he does not know the costs or whether it is technically feasible. The working group was, as the Opposition expected as confused as was the task force. Like the satellite task force, the IDC report was not unanimous. Again there has been dissent, as was put neatly at page 187 when it answered the question of whether Australia should have a national communications satellite system. The report stated: 
The working group was not unanimous on this issue . . . the majority comes down in favour. 
Who dissented? The Department of Finance earlier dissented in the White report. This time it was the representatives of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. So what is the worth of the working group's confused recommendations? Clearly they are not strong enough for the Minister's unbridled optimism about the satellite. The views of Telecom, the Government body at present distributing internal telecommunications, have been constantly ignored by the Government. Its own satellite study was still proceeding when the Government announced the White task force into the satellite. We all know the predictions of one formerly esteemed member of that group. Just recently the managing director of Telecom heavily criticised the Government's stand on the satellite. Once again today we see Telecom being ignored, not consulted and treated with contempt by the Govenment in today's statement. This is really quite irresponsible. It highlights the fact that the Minister has failed to consult Telecom on this matter. The Telecom study, expected to have its findings by next May, is being undertaken by a Sydney consultancy group. It is investigating the communications needs in the 1980s of Aboriginal communities, pastoralists, mining communities, and agricultural interests. The first stage has already started. This information is not yet available. 
The information which this study provides- I have got more than two minutes, I can assure the Minister- would seem essential before any commitment to a satellite can be made. Once again we have the Government ignoring the public facility that is responsible. Again I ask why. I suggest the answer lies at the base of this Government's philosophy. Do not get excited. Is the Minister frightened of the truth? 
The reason the Minister has rushed into this decision is that the satellite and the removal of the telecommunications control from Telecom are the first steps towards removing this high profit area from public hands and turning it over to private enterprise. The beneficiaries of this decision will not be isolated outback homesteads and/or communities. They will be Kerry Packer and the moguls of Australian media control. They will be IBM Australia Ltd, which submitted that ground stations be privately owned so that there can be re-established a monopoly in data transmission. The private control of ground stations is a move away from the traditional control of telecommunications by the public sector. If and when a Labor government decides a satellite is warranted it will retain control by making Telecom the responsible body. 
I turn to defence considerations. The working group wholeheartedly endorsed defence use of the satellite. It suggested that the nation's defences would be more secure because of it; that our defence communications would be impregnable, with ground attack having little effect. All this is said without one word of consideration being given to the development and deployment of hunter-killer satellites- armed satellites that can destroy or make useless most of the sophisticated communications technology buzzing around over our heads. So much for impregnability. There is an old saying about 'putting all your eggs in one basket'. If the Government is going to rely on satellites for defence communications, that is exactly what it is doing. 
I was given an answer by one of the experts from Canada. I put to him this proposition about the defence facility and what would be its effects. I asked: 'Would it be vulnerable to laser beams or killer satellites?' The answer was yes. I asked: Have you given any consideration to that?' He said that if that should happen of course we would be in the midst of a nuclear war and we would have more problems than that on our hands. That was the answer from an individual who came out here and whom the Minister has lauded. As I have indicated, the views of Telecom have been ignored time and time again. I think my colleague the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)  will take up this question about the costs of satellites, ignoring really what they are capable of. 
The Minister talked glowingly of the Canadian experience but did not tell us what that experience has really been. Telecom has steadfastly maintained its position that a satellite is unnecessary, but Telecom clearly sees the dangers inherent in the working group's recommendation that there should be a separate satellite authority. That authority subsidised at public cost would be able to cream off the lucrative business traffic which Telecom sees as central to its growth and plans to keep telephone charges down. The Minister detailed the way in which the authority is to be funded, by borrowing on the market, which will compete with Telecom in its demand for sources of capital. The result is duplication. This Government  is  bowing to corporate interests. A separate authority is warranted, in the working group's words, because Telecom has indicated its doubts about the need for a satellite system. It would be a minor user. In these circumstances the working group considers that there must be doubts about the desirability of placing responsibility in that organisation. Telecom is not to be trusted because it is a public utility which is anathema to this Government's private interest philosophy. 
In conclusion, let me assure the House that the Federal Opposition is not opposed to satellite technology as such. The Labor Party is aware of the problems and disadvantages experienced by remote communities. It may well be that only satellite technology can bring any improvement in communications. If that is shown to be the case, we would not oppose it. There are dangers in social impacts, which the current satellite proposal might have. The data transmission and the facsimile capabilities would make large in-roads into clerical employment. Satellite use without strict regulation could become the technology of monopoly centralising control of all forms of media. Costs, as with all high technologies, have a tendency to escalate. Because of these as yet unanswered questions we are adopting what might be considered a conservative position. Before the Opposition is convinced of the soundness of this proposal we would want assurances that none of these destructive consequences would result from satellite use. We would wish to be assured that the satellite was in the public interest and that is the case that must be established. 
Motion (by  Mr Groom)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the papers. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 20 September 1979: 
Would the launching of a domestic satellite make possible the introduction of a national Teletext system in Australia. 
If so, would this system enable pages of information to be displayed on any television screen, through a decoder, throughout Australia. 
) Has the Government considered the social impact this would have by way of creating unemployment, particularly in the printing industry. 
What planning has taken place for the retraining of communications and media personnel, printing workers and office personnel who will be made redundant by the new technology available from a domestic satellite. 
Has his attention been drawn to the paper delivered by  Mr K.  Curtis, Managing Director of Telecom Australia, at a recent Departmental workshop on the introduction and implications of a domestic communications satellite. 
If so, and in view of that paper's criticism of the introduction of a domestic satellite at this time, will he guarantee the completion and maintenance of the terrestrial communications system referred to by  Mr Curtis  in his paper. 
Are there large differences between the views of Telecom Australia and himself on the development of a domestic satellite; if so, what are the reasons. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 25 September 1979: 
1 ) In view of the criticism, by the Managing Director of Telecom Australia of the Government's plans to introduce a domestic satellite, will he guarantee that operation of any proposed satellite will be vested in Telecom rather than a new satellite authority or even a private entrepreneur. 
If so, will Telecom control the input of information through the system or will it merely be acting as a carrier. 
If not, what is the reason for the difference in opinion on control of a domestic satellite between his Department and Telecom. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 25 September 1979: 
1 ) Is it a fact that the introduction of a domestic satellite would make it possible to beam news stories from anywhere in the world to anywhere else in the world by electronic signal resulting in a computer-generated bromide or film. 
Will it be possible within Australia to beam complete newspaper pages from a central operation to any capital city and will this activity by-pass journalists, sub-editors, and compositors in those capital dues. 
Has any estimate been made of how many persons will be made redundant by the introduction of this new technology. 
What job security provisions have been made by the Government to provide protection of employment for those persons affected by the new technology. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 29 August 1979: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the recently released plans for a tourist centre on the Jolimont site in Canberra City; if so, is the new Canberra City Post Office still to be included in this site. 
Is the planning and design of the new post office in progress; if so, is it so oriented as to achieve harmony between the 2 conflicting uses of the site. 
When will funds be made available for the construction of the new Canberra City Post Office. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 29 August 1979: 
How much revenue was received from (a) country local calls, (b) country STD and trunk calls, (c) metropolitan LSA local calls and (d) metropolitan LSA, STD and trunk calls in each State during each year from 1 970 to date. 
I never agree with the honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem)  but he made one point a few moments ago to which I subscribe. To proceed with this type of committee system is an absolute farce. There is insufficient time for members to obtain the information they require, although they are able to ask Ministers questions. As a shadow Minister handling three portfolios I have asked questions of the responsible Ministers. They listen very attentively but I have never been side-tracked so much in all my life. When the answers are not forthcoming and the time for the committee hearings runs out we list the questions but they still remain unanswered. What contribution has that inquisition made to this debate? Absolutely nothing! It must be as frustrating for members on the other side of the House as it is for us. There is no questioning of the Ministers. I am not blaming them. They do not have sufficient time to deal with the questions asked. 
I know where the honourable member for Holt ought to be. I put it to the House that the whole committee system ought to be overhauled if we are to make a positive contribution. Surely there is a better way for the people who take on responsibilities in the Parliament as representatives of their own constituents and the parliamentary system generally? 
I now turn to one of the issues I am able to raise in the eight minutes remaining to me. I have to cover several portfolios. I have spent hours labouring over them in an endeavour to make a contribution to the debate in this House. For the past two years this Government has attempted to sell off the assets of the people of Australia. I asked the Minister for Home Affairs  (Mr Ellicott)  a question, and I referred to a situation which I think ought to be highlighted in this debate. This Government, not content with allowing its American friends to plunder this land for its mineral and oil reserves without a tax on super profits, has proceeded to sell off all manner of public enterprises in this country. The profitable Fawnmac group of pharmaceutical companies has been sold. The Government's half share in the Ranger uranium project is to be sold, probably to foreign investors. Mary Kathleen is up for grabs. The Australian Government Engine Works has been placed on the market. Even Government enterprises established by previous Liberal governments have not been immune to the asset stripping operation. The Housing Loans Insurance Corporation, set up by the Menzies Government in 1965, is the next lamb to the slaughter. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and his band of saboteurs are involved in selling off the assets of the people of Australia. Even the long-established domestic carrier, TransAustralia Airlines, is not safe. Government back benchers were pressing hard for its sale and the fight is not over. What will happen next? Will Qantas Airways Ltd be sold to Pan American World Airways? Will Australia Post and Telecom Australia be carved up amongst the Bell Telephone Company, the International Telephone and Telegraph Corporation and 
Standard Telephones and Cables Pty Ltd? The prospect is horrendous and treacherous to say the least. This madness has spread to the Australian Capital Territory. I have put a question to the responsible Minister about private enterprise expressing interest in the Government-owned Mugga Lane quarry and about the Commonwealth Brickworks already meeting with the chop. It is the Commonwealth Brickworks, of a range of items, that I wish to deal with in the very short available time this evening. The Opposition is extremely disturbed at the sale- 
All the egg is on the honourable member's face and and that will be more so after the next election. The Opposition is extremely disturbed at the sale of the brickworks and especially at the manner and direction of the sale. The brickworks have been sold on the cheap to a company with a long history of intimate links with the Liberal Party of Australia. I will detail those more serious charges in just one moment. The sale may also see the closure of Canbrick together; it already has seen the retrenchment of some of its staff. The company which literally produced the edifice which is Canberra has been sold lock, stock and barrel to any bidder, no matter what the price. The Government may as well put out signs in front of the brickworks saying: 'Closing down sale of public enterprise at below price. First in will be best dressed'. 
A company named Clifton Brick Holdings Ltd offered $3.6m for the brickworks. This figure compares most unfavourably with the $3m that the Government was asking for as only a half share in the company just two years ago. If one inflates the 1977 figure to today's prices, it seems that the Government is selling the brickworks for very close to half its 1977 valuation of the company. Further, just five years ago the brickworks was rebuilt and expanded on a new site with the most modern and sophisticated equipment available. The cost of that rebuilding and expansion was $4.1m. The brickworks is a substantial asset. Its book value last financial year was $4.8m, but it was sold for just $3.6m. This matter becomes all the more disturbing when it is realised that the sale price for the brickworks was less than the brickwork's liabilities. The Government's proceeds from the sale are to be less than the Government's debts associated with the brickworks. The Government is losing money selling Canbrick. It must consider the company less than valueless. The company's goodwill, its assets, its market share, all add up to less than the Government's liabilities in the company. 
However, the situation just might not be as bad as it appears. The Opposition understands that the 1 979 price is free of all debt, whereas the 1977 price carried a share in the company's substantial debts. Nonetheless, it seems that that brickworks could have been sold for substantially less- 
The honourable member for Denison asked who writes my speeches. I write my speeches. Santamaria writes his. Nonetheless it seems that the brickworks could have been sold for substantially less than the valuation placed on it in 1 977- a valuation done by the departmental member of its board of directors who is, incidentally, a chartered accountant. This is a scandalous state of affairs. The Government appears to be making a gift of the Commonwealth Brickworks to Clifton Bricks. The situation becomes even more compromising when it is realised that Clifton Bricks has a long history of association with the Liberal Party. The company's present  chairman  of directors is a former Liberal Party member of this House. Adrian Gibson represented the seat of Denison in this House from 1964 to 1969. Adrian Gibson's father was one of Tasmania's leading judicial tories, sitting on the Supreme Court of Tasmania for 17 years- another political appointment. The honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  moves out of the House. 
I though that was most reasonable for me. Nonetheless, I believe that the individual who was responsible for that tirade has a penchant for opening his mouth and letting the wind blow his tongue about. The more he does that the more the people of this country will understand why he is not going to be the honourable member for Denison for- 
I withdraw. I return to the point I made in the first instance. I think that the time available to shadow Ministers to present their material in a proper parliamentary sense is farcical. Unless something is done about this aspect of the Estimates committee system before next time around Opposition members will be wasting their time coming to Parliament to contribute to the Budget debate as the Government will ride roughshod over the parliamentary system and impose its will without any parliamentary democracy at all. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 29 August 1979: 
1 ) Which of the exchanges referred to in Appendix 2(2) of the publication  Community Access 80,  published by the Australian Telecommunications Commission, service villages or townships within their exchange districts with a population in excess of (a) 50, (b) 100 and (c) 250 persons. 
Which service towns referred to in Appendix 2 (2) have populations below (a) 50, (b) 100, (c) 250 and (d) 1,000 persons. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 29 August 1979: 
1 ) Is a former general manager of the Overseas Telecommunications Commission living in a house at Double Bay, NSW, formerly owned by OTC. 
Was the house sold by OTC to the executive; if so, what was the price paid. 
What was the most recent valuation by the ValuerGeneral of the house and property before the sale. 
Is it a fact that the price paid was the market value of the house 10 years before the sale. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 9 October 1979: 
Did the Australian Broadcasting Commission make radio and television program changes during 1979 which included reductions in (a) race broadcasts in Canberra, Melbourne, Newcastle and certain other centres and (b) speciality broadcasting especially on relay, such as  The World of Jazz  and  The Showman  formerly relayed from Sydney to Canberra. 
If so, have these changes resulted in a greater audience share for ABC stations. 
Which ABC stations received a (a) greater and (b) reduced audience as a result of the program changes. 
Do he and his Department support the programming changes in the ABC which have seen a move away from specialist and/or quality broadcasting towards a broadcasting formula of the so-called middle of the road type. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 10 October 1979: 
1 ) Did he state as reported in the  Financial Review  of 25 September 1979 that the first generation of the Australian Domestic Satellite would not have a direct broadcasting facility for television transmission to remote homesteads and communities until late in its life-span. 
If so, on his time-scale for introduction of a domestic broadcasting satellite, is it a fact that satellite television transmission will not reach remote areas until the late 1980s. 
3 ) What is the reason for this change of policy. 
Does this new policy contradict his earlier enthusiasm, support and acceptance of early provision of satellite television for the outback. 
Is it also a fact that the Canadian system of low power and lower cost direct broadcasting provides low quality television images and is, therefore, technically unsuited to Australian conditions. 
Did he promise television reception in remote areas from the satellite for less than $ 1 ,000 per service; if so, do the changed arrangements mean that this promise cannot be honoured. 
If the position is as stated, how will television be brought to the 3,000 remote homesteads and at what cost. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 10 October 1979: 
1 ) What is the age of the existing telephone exchange at Montville, Queensland. 
When is a new exchange being provided for the area. 
When is the telephone cable between Montville and Nambour being replaced. 
Is the telephone service offered to the people of Montville and surrounds considered acceptable by (a) Telecom and (b) him. 
Has this service recently suffered (a) exchange breakdowns, (b) Nambour-Montville cable faults, (c) copious crossed lines, and (d) exchange congestion, leading to the necessity of dialling several times before connection is successful. 
-The Minister for Post and Telecommunications will be aware that at paragraph 28 on page 37 of the working group report on the introduction of a domestic satellite it is stated:   . . a low powered Domestic Broadcasting Satellite . . . service in Australia might operate under increasing difficulties in the longer term if other countries in the region introduce high powered DBS services. 
Is the Minister aware that it is proposed in the working group report that any Australian DBS use low powered, 20-watt transponders operating in the 12 gigahertz frequency range? Is the Minister further aware that Japan intends to use a high powered DBS service and is about to launch an experimental satellite using such high powered, 250-watt transponders operating on the same frequency range as that proposed for Australia? I ask the Minister. Will Japanese satellite communications blanket or interfere with signals from any Australian satellite? If so, what is being done to overcome this problem? 
I think the motion proposed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  would prevent the Opposition from commenting on the statement by the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Ellicott). 
-The Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Ellicott)  interrupts me to say that I can proceed, but the Opposition wishes to state some objections to the procedures that have been adopted. They have put the Opposition at a disadvantage in replying to this ministerial statement. I could have made a brief statement by leave and then the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  could have moved that the House take note of the statement. That would have given other members of the Joint committee on the Australian Capital Territory, and myself the opportunity to speak to the statement at some later time when we had more time. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 10 October 1979: 
Has the public undertaking made in April 1979 by the Chairperson of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal to repay a liquor account been honoured. 
2 ) Has  Mr Gyngell,  in relation to his position, entertained guests at home since April 1 979, if so, how often. 
Has any claim on the entertainment budget for the Tribunal eventuated as a result of the entertainment referred to in part (2). 
What was the entertainment budget and actual expenditure for the Tribunal in (a) 1976-77, (b) 1977-78 and (c) 
1978- 79. 
What is the entertainment budget for the Tribunal in 1979- 80 and what has been the expenditure to 9 October 1979. 
What are the itemised claims upon these budgets made by  Mr Gyngell  in relation to home entertainment. 
Was any documentation provided by  Mr Gyngell  to support his statement that the true liquor bill referred to in part (1) was for $319.45, not $519.45; if so, what was this documentation and will he make part or all of it public. 
If no documentation was produced, was  Mr Gyngell  's assertion of a $200 discrepancy accepted; if so, why. 
asked the Minister for  Post  and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 29 August 1979: 
How many (a) V8, (b) 6 cylinder and (c) 4 cylinder vehicles are operated by (i) Australia Post, (ii) Telecom Australia, (iii) his Department and (iv) the Overseas Telecommunications Commission. 
How many vehicles in each category in part (1) are air-conditioned. 
Why does his Department or any of the statutory bodies under his responsibility operate, in an energy depleted world, 8 cylinder vehicles. 
Will he change the present ratio of vehicle acquisitions. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 29 August 1 979: 
Having regard to his announcement of 22 August 1 979 listing available funds for (a) community, (b) welfare, (c) arts and (d) sporting grants by his Department within the Australian Capital Territory what grants in each of these categories were made by his Department or any other Federal Government Department disbursing funds for the same purposes in each of the last 5 financial years. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 9 October 1979: 
1 ) Is (a) Australia Post or (b) Telecom Australia subject to any (i) ministerial or (ii) Public Service Board direction in the determination of staff ceilings. 
What are the reasons for the imposition of staff ceilings in (a) Australia Post and ( b) Telecom Australia. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 9 October 1979: 
1) Is the standard of service afforded the general public by Telecom Australia affected or reduced by shortages of equipment. 
Are telephone cabinets and cables in short supply. 
3 ) What other equipment is in short supply. 
What are the reasons for equipment shortages and what action is Telecom taking to overcome the situation. 
What is the average delay in 
installation of new telephone services; 
reconnection of telephone services; 
repair of damaged public telephones; and 
replacement of damaged public telephone cabinets. 
What are the extreme delays in each of the categories mentioned in part ( 5 ). 
Are any of the delay categories in parts (5) and (6) considered unacceptable by 
Telecom; and 
his Department; if so, what is being done to overcome these situations. 
Are staff shortages a reason for delay in any of the categories in parts (5) and (6). 
