
 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
ls the Minister for Labour and National Service aware that the Communist Party in Australia is savagely divided into two factions, the Aarons faction and the Clancy faction? fs he also aware that the struggle for power will be decided at the Party's conference at Easter time and that in the meantime each faction is trying to prove that it is more militant than the other? Are Communist union leaders calling strikes wherever possible to prove their militancy and are hundreds of thousands of Australian workers having their traditional loyalties imposed upon in what is only a Communist faction fight? Does the Government propose to do anything to expose the tactics of the Communists and to warn Australian workers that they are being used as dupes? ls the Minister also aware of a considerable backlash of opinion among the workers against strikes? Can the Government assist the officers of the genuine unions. 
I oppose the amendment on the ground that it will only prolong the inquiry, which is undesirable. The siting of proposed airports is a matter for the Government. It is not beyond the realms of possibility that certain areas are under consideration at present. To foist extra duties onto the Select Committee on Aircraft Noise would only hamper and impede the preparation of a report concerning the manner in which the problem of aircraft noise can be alleviated. It would require at least 3 years of intensive study, meetings and inquiries to prepare a report on the siting of new airports. For that reason I strongly oppose the- amendment. 
The Committee has travelled far and wide and it has taken much evidence, lt is desirous of submitting another interim report to the Parliament as early as possible and the final report by the end of this year. 1 urge those honourable members who are genuine in their desire to abate the noise problem to vote against the amendment. I think the Committee has taken sufficient evidence from a cross section of the community to allow it to submit certain recommendations which will result in some alleviation of the noise problem for the time being. In my opinion it is undesirable at present to require the Committee to inquire into the siting of airports because it would be necessary for many professional people to give evidence on the subject. I consider that the siting of future airports is a matter which should be left to the Government to decide. 1 strongly oppose the amendment and plead to those honourable members on this side of the House who want relief from the noise problem as soon as possible to oppose the amendment. 
In speaking to the Address-in-Reply to the GovernorGeneral's Speech 1 should like, firstly, to take up the remarks of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  who bemoaned the fact that the recent recess was the longest between polling day and the date when members came back here. Of course, if we look at the facts, the return of writs fell due on 24th November and it was necessary that the House should meet within 30 days thereof in order to comply with the Constitution. That 30 days period brought us to Christmas Eve so it would have been quite impossible to have done other than what the Government did. To comply with the Constitution Parliament assembled for 1 day to enable members to be sworn in and it then adjourned. Few honourable members would have liked to return here immediately after Christmas because most of them would have been with their families enjoying the school holidays. However, the Government's action has been vindicated because never before in the history of this Parliament has so much material been prepared for the opening of the Parliament and for Parliament's worka day business. Never before has a GovernorGeneral's Speech incorporated, as this one does, all the promises made in a Prime Minister's policy speech. 
Before analysing the contents of the Governor-General's Speech I want to refer to the remarks of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  who occupied almost all of his speaking time in referring to our defence. It is to our great credit that the other ranks in the Australian Army receive more pay than their counterparts in other armies. They receive  $2  a day more than the American other ranks up to the rank of lieutenant. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition spoke about conscription. Despite the ballot, our system is the fairest and most just of all. The families that made the sacrifices in World War I were the same families that made the great sacrifices in World War II. I could number hundreds of families which made no effort in either war but who, while our men were away, feathered their nests and are now very wealthy. Our system is just and fair. The only unfair part about it is that every lad is not involved. We would like to have every lad involved but because of lack of instructors and the necessary equipment it is not possible at this stage. The voluntary system has never been fair or just for the reasons that I have stated. The Americans have adopted our ballot system realising that there is no better method of arriving at a number when the whole is not wanted. 1 want to speak to all phases of the Governor-General's Speech as far as time will permit me. We fought two world wars and the Korean War to prove that an aggressor should never succeed. Once we allow this principle to dissolve the world will be a much worse place. It must be remembered at all times that the Vietcong and the North Vietnamese are the aggressors. If honourable members care to refer back to 1966 and examine a pamphlet The Dissent and the Dissenters', prepared by an American journalist, they will see that it proves how right he was and how right we were over Vietnam. In his pamphlet he states that Mao Tse-tung and Ho Chi Minh knew that if they could prolong the war sufficiently the doves and weaklings in America would succumb. Unfortunately for a great nation and a great  President  this is what has happened. Had the psychological war not broken in America and Australia the war in Vietnam would have been over and our men would have been back home. That is the truth and I defy anyone to prove that I am wrong. Just at the time when we were in the ascendancy the psychological war broke and history - have no doubt about this - will judge many people as traitors to their country. Many clergymen and the like were hoodwinked and unwittingly succumbed to the advice of these other people. But as surely as the night follows the day - and this is the tragedy of the whole affair - if we withdraw from South East Asia we will have to return, at great economic cost, which means nothing, but at the great cost of human lives, to preserve our country from attack. 
All these people are, of course, very wise. They were all wise after the Communist coup in Indonesia failed in August 1965. Had the coup been successful, and it failed only by 4 vor 5 hours, I ask everyone with reason and common sense to try to visualise what would have been the position now. The timetable was for Mainland China to attack India on 23rd March of the following year. These are facts, and I defy anyone to disprove my statements. If India had collapsed under such an attack, our position in Australia would have been hopeless. 
We will support the South Vietnamese. It is unfair to say that we are supporting them only to save our own skins. It was very refreshing last night to hear the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  say that we in Australia would never adopt isolationism as our policy. Once we do that, our days are numbered. We never wait until a bush fire reaches the homestead paddock before we try to put it out; we always go out and fight the fire in the back paddocks. The repatriation benefits for our soldiers far exceed the repatriation benefits given by any other country. Not only are our servicemen entitled to repatriation benefits, but they are also covered by the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund. This means that they are eligible for a worthwhile pension if perchance they are injured. Nonetheless they do not receive one penny more than a grateful country should be pleased to give to them. 
We grant certain concessions for the export of manufactured goods, and this is a worthwhile action. Such exports have increased considerably because of the incentives we have given to manufacturers. In consequence our balance of payments position is improved. I was very pleased to note that the Governor-General mentioned that the income tax on those in the lower and middle income groups would be reviewed. I was the first member of this House to raise the question of the incidence of income tax on the lower and middle income earners. In 1955 people with an income of more than $4,000 represented only about 8% or 10% of our wage earners. Today I am assured that they represent more than 50%. So it is very pleasing to know that the Government will grant relief to the low and middle income groups. 
It is desirable that we have a tariff policy that will work to our benefit, provided that it is policed in a common sense way and does not protect inefficient industries. I would go so far as to say that we must have some form of protection. If we did not, countries where workers have low incomes would send their materials and made up garments to this country. With our standard of living, it would be impossible for us to compete with them. Therefore, it is desirable that we continue our protectionist policies. It is necessary, of course, to keep a strict eye on the administrative machinery and the Government does this. The great Hawkesbury River is in my electorate of Mitchell and I am pleased to note that the Government will make $100m available for the development of national water resources, flood mitigation and other works associated with our water resources.  Major floods  are not the only problem: the nuisance floods that occur from time to time also create a problem 
T want to speak now about our primary industries and especially about wool. Never before in the history of the world have primary industries been in a more difficult position. We have an oversupply of almost every product of the land, and this is a world wide trend. The primary producers in each and every nation are suffering from the same difficulties. This is brought about by the cost factor, and we must implement a long range programme that will help the primary industries to overcome the problems of this difficult period. A temporary expedient may be needed in the first instance, but we must have a long range plan to rehabilitate the farmers and the rural workers. Subsidies  aTe  not the  answer,  because they foster inefficiency and we do not want inefficiency. The two primary products that will succeed in the immediate future are wool and beef. The others will have a difficult time. From time immemorial wheat adjusted the oversupply as a commodity to the demands of the world markets. In the depression years the granaries of Manitoba and other places were overflowing, but within the very short space of 4 weeks the whole stock of wheat was ruined by pests. When the wheat industry was going through a difficult period 2 or 3 years ago, we received orders for wheat from China and elsewhere, which relieved the position considerably. In regard to wool, it is paradoxical that although we have been told by the American research people that no surplus wool will be stored at the end of this year, at this time, when wool is in demand, the producers are getting the worst prices since the depression. 
 The honourable member is sorry that that is the case. I know that mining and minerals are very fashionable now, but we must all remember that the wool industry earned $854m for Australia last year compared with earnings of $500m from minerals. Of course, only 42% of the money earned from minerals remains in the country, whereas nearly all of the money from wool production remains in Australia. There is a fear among primary producers at the present time that I have not known before. Because of their pioneer stock and the great difficulties that they have had to surmount over the years, it is not customary to see our men of the land distressed at the way things are going. The Government is not responsible for overproduction in Australia. It is a world wide problem, and it will require all our assistance, knowhow and commonsense to assist primary producers over this very difficult period. Diversification is one answer, but when your neighbour and everybody else diversifies we reach the situation that has been reached in the wheat industry and, to a lesser degree, in the wool industry. 
Seventy-five per cent of the wool produced in Australia is produced by 25% of the growers. The city slickers and other people who have come into the industry as mixed farmers have caused the high production of wool and have made it difficult properly to present and market wool. I have no doubt about the future of wool. I think that the free auction system should be allowed to continue untrammelled, although I have fears in my mind at the present time that there is an overseas cartel operating against the auction system and that, to overcome this, we may have to sell our wool, after proper presentation, on a basis of private dealing. The wool industry should receive the same encouragement as our secondary industries receive in regard to their export trade. Wool is our most valuable asset in terms of overseas earnings, and we have taken this for granted. If we can pay a bonus to secondary industries for their overseas earnings, why not do the same for the wool industry? 
I would like to expound further the ways in which we could help the primary industries, but my time is running out. T would have liked to speak on the Fill, the greatest machine the world has known. Honourable members opposite may laugh, but it will be the salvation of Australia. They would buy the Phantom, which has had more crashes than the Fill. I was flying planes before they were in napkins. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Before I call the honourable member for Batman, I would remind the House that this is the honourable member's maiden speech. 
We have heard two harangues in regard to this legislation which is quite simple and was introduced as a result of a promise made in the speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  before the last election when he said: 
We shall pay pensions at standard rates instead of married rates to aged couples who lose the economies of living together by reason of failing health - for example, if one or both of them is in  a  nursing home. 
The honourable member for Scullin  (Dr jenkins)  got mixed up entirely. He spoke of people being in hospital for 3 or 4 weeks, or even months, and of course he has overlooked the point that these people are being hospitalised free of charge and at the same time are receiving their pensions. If after an accident or after having a coronary occlusion they are sent to a nursing home it is most probable that the word 'indefinitely' would apply, and the responsible authority for repatriation and social service matters would agree that they are indefinitely unable to continue in the matrimonial home. But I must congratulate you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  on your tolerance and your charity in regard to this matter and I would like you to extend some to myself because I want to mention someone who has been actively associated with social services and fought hard for the introduction of legislation like this when there was no differentiation between single and married pensioners. 
I have seen' the single pensioner living much more frugally than the married pensioner couple. The former member for Mitchell.  Mr R.  C. Wheeler, and 1 brought this fact very prominently before the Government of the day and said that single people, especially those without a home who were paying rent for their rooms, deserved the consideration of the Government. We were responsible in some way for bringing about the extra pension for single persons. I take pride in this and I am proud now that the Government has decided to honour the Prime Minister's promise that we would do this. This Bill is so simple. The other areas spoken about by honourable members opposite will be taken care of in due time. 
The policy of this Government is that those in greatest need will receive our greatest consideration and attention, and we will proceed progressively along mis line. But the Opposition has strung out this debate and meandered around the whole field of social services when all we want to do is to enable the Government to honour its promise to pay these people their extra pensions, to get the Royal Assent and let the people concerned with this legislation get on with the job. I commend the Government for bringing this legislation forward and I trust that in future where time is the essence of the contract we will not have such delaying tactics by the Opposition. 
Is the Postmaster-General aware that people unaccustomed to receiving telegrams receive them with some fear? ls he aware that a retail house in Sydney is sending out telegrams to people? The telegram that I have in my hand is signed by a Miss Leslie. The addressee to whom it was sent was not at home. She has a son in Vietnam and when she received notice that a telegram was waiting for her at the Post Office she rushed to the telephone box and suffered a slight heart attack. Will the Minister consider this matter? I will hand him the telegram. Is he aware that in the recent election the Leader of the Opposition engaged in the same form of advertising in the Division pf Mitchell? 
My question is directed to the Minister for National Development who represents the Minister for Civil Aviation. Has his attention been drawn to a statement made by the honourable member for Chifley about the Richmond air base and a survey that he said was made by the Department of Civil Aviation of an area between Richmond and Penrith for the purpose of establishing a commercial aerodrome? Will the Minister say whether there is any substance in the statement? 
I have great pleasure in speaking on this matter. Firstly I should like to congratulate and to state my admiration for the great number of people who have devoted so much time to this noble cause, the Meals on Wheels service. It provides a wonderful opportunity to assist those who, due to age and other disabilities, cannot help themselves. The admiration of all should go to those people who so willingly and unreservedly give of their time and their motor vehicles to take meals to the people I have mentioned. The service has grown considerably throughout Australia but there are still many areas in which it does not operate. I think the Government should be complimented for entering this field. Not very long ago such a suggestion would have confounded most people, but we are becoming more conscious of the need to render assistance to those who are most in need. 
The subsidy for which the Bill provides is$1 for every 10 meals provided. The Bill is novel in that it can be extended to include other Meals on Wheels organisations. If one Meals on Wheels organisation is prosperous, the subsidy to which it is entitled can be given to another organisation close by where the scheme is not in operation. This is a wonderful gesture of goodwill on the part of the Government. I understand that the scheme was initiated in the United Kingdom and in Australia was first introduced in South Australia. The scheme has been operating in Sydney for many years. I am surprised at the distances people travel from the fringe areas to deliver meals in the inner areas of Sydney such as Newtown and Redfern. I have many friends who regularly go to Sydney to participate in this wonderful work. The scheme assists not only the aged but also the invalid. It is a wonderful thing that people have so much compassion for those who are less fortunate. 
When one spouse passes on there is a tendency for the remaining one to neglect himself or herself. I have found that, rather than go to the trouble of cooking a meal of vegetables and meat which is so desirable and so necessary to maintain stamina and strength, the tendency is to exist on cake and tea. Malnutrition sets in and it is difficult to restore the persons concerned to the state of health that we would like them to enjoy. The exercise that we are carrying out is very worthwhile, and the further we can extend it the more we are going to help humanity. 
Another feature of the Bill is the local autonomy that is provided for and the full control that is given to the people working the Meals on Wheels service. The Government interferes very little in the matter. It encourages people who have spare time on their hands to go along and join this great volunteer force that is doing so much for these needy people. The meals are prepared by many methods. In my area the local hospital, the Blacktown District Hospital, supplies the meals, which are then taken to the senior citizens hall. We have a very fine hall in Blacktown and 1 am proud to have been associated with it from its inception. We started out with a voluntary effort to collect money to build the hall for the senior citizens. At that time the purpose was for it to serve as a place where people with a lot of spare time on their hands could come along and enjoy one another's company. After we had collected some thousands of dollars by voluntary effort from balls and other functions, we gladly handed the money over to the Blacktown Municipal Council. Now we have a very fine hall with a kitchen, facilities for dancing and concerts and a retiring room. The ball is fully occupied almost 7 days a week. 
The food comes from the hospital and is taken to the Senior Citizens Centre where it is distributed to those people who enjoy it so much. It is remarkable that the cost is only 25c a meal. The hospital which has been erected within the last 3 years has some wonderful equipment. For the minimal charge of 25c we can take to these people a very good, nutritious meal which provides all that is necessary to keep body and soul together. 
People in my electorate are doing  a  tremendous job. The members of our Lions Club undertake a regular job on roster, lt takes a great deal of organisation to be able to fit this activity into one's everyday life. To these people who deliver the meals we must give a great deal of credit. Not only is the delivery of the meal so valuable, but the people delivering the meals, especially to those living on their own, may observe some slight indisposition of the person to which the meal is being delivered, lt may be necessary for them to advise that person's relatives or get a doctor in. So over and above, the delivery of the meal, this daily contact with the people is of great value and must make their lives very much better and. brighter. Loneliness is the biggest handicap for the aged. I know that many of the people, who deliver the meals, apart from providing that regular service, arrange to take these elderly people to their own homes, out on excursions and to church on Sunday. 
The subsidy that will be granted by this Bill will have a snowballing effect. The supply of meals is increasing from day to day, and I should imagine that after these separate branches receive the subsidy they will be in a much better position to offer better facilities and to organise services in other smaller districts that do not have the amenities of meals on wheels, lt will create further interest and a desire for people to take part in this wonderful work that we are doing. The subsidy for each 10 meals, as I have stated previously, is $1 and is payable on the number of meals served during the year ended 30th June 1969. Immediately the machinery is put into operation these organisations that have delivered the meals will receive the amount they are entitled to from the Government. But we must not become obsessed with the idea that this scheme is only for the aged. It is for the invalid people and for sick people under certain circumstances. As promised in the policy speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton),  this scheme will -be extended to the home care programme to which the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  referred in his second reading speech. He said: 
The introduction of this ' measure will mark an important expansion of the Government's home care programme, which is designed to provide housekeeping, home nursing and other services to the aged with a view to maintaining them in their own homes, if they so desire, as long as possible. It will also provide another opportunity for the participation of voluntary organisations and other bodies in the programme of caring for people in need of community support. Community response to the home care programme has so far been encouraging In spite of some delays in the completion of arrangements by State governments; however, there ls ample scope for the development still further of the type of service which community effort can best provide. 
When the scheme is expanded, as was stated by the Minister for Social Services, it will afford relief to hospitals and nursing homes. If we can keep people contented and happy in their own environment we are doing a worthwhile job. I congratulate the Minister on the extension of this scheme and 1 look forward to the Bill that will provide a subsidy for senior citizen centres. I think that will be introduced in a short time. This movement will be given a -great fillip when other people not engaged in this wonderful service see what can be done to assist those people who are dependent upon it. Of course it is necessary - and it is important to state this - for the usual safeguards to be complied with, although it is very heartening to know that the Minister has stated that there will be no Government interference at all. The Government wants the local organisations to have the responsibility for using the subsidy. This is a wonderful thing because in most cases where an organisation attracts a government subsidy there are generally so many rules to be obeyed that it makes it very difficult for the organisation to carry on. So I am very pleased that there is to be no interference. Provided that the organisation is properly controlled and gives good service and good food it will be left to its own resources to do so. 
According to the Minister's second reading speech, 2 million meals were served last year, and on an annual basis the proposed subsidy will cost the Government $200,000, which of course is not a very great sum of money. But this is a new concept and I think that that amount will possibly treble within 2 years. 1 hope so, because the more we expend in this regard the more we save in other ways such as hospital and medical expenses, lt is a wonderful idea. 1 congratulate the Minister on the Bill that is before the Parliament, and I hope that the Bill extending the' subsidy to aged persons homes and senior citizen centres will be placed before Parliament within a reasonably short space of time. 
I want to refer to a statement made last night by the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  who said that the next airport for Sydney would be somewhere in the Londonderry area. He said that a survey had been made. The Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  representing the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  gave a categorical denial this morning to that statement. I tell the honourable member for Chifley that his first efforts in detective work as a Sherlock Holmes have been quite negligible. A survey was made last year. I was brought into it because many of the property owners involved got in touch with me and wanted to know what was going on. It was simply a survey by the Department of Air in relation to the identification of blocks of land that the air base at Richmond had controlled for many years. There is nothing in the suggestion about the establishment of an aerodrome in the area. Many locations are under consideration at present but I say without fear of contradiction that there has never been a survey of this area for that purpose. 
 I deprecate the idea of introducing class distinctions, but the honourable member for Chifley referred to the workers who live at Mount Druitt and said that an airport would be established at Londonderry because they did not matter. This sort of tripe belongs to the long distant past. We do not want these sort of accusations in this House. We are all Australians and we are all workers when it comes to the point To introduce this sort of division is sickly and it belongs to the era of the Independent Workers of the World - an era which has long since passed, thank goodness. There was reference by the honourable member for Chifley to aircraft noise over Mount Druitt and other places. One of the best authorities in this House, the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones),  has said that aircraft over Mount Druitt would be at least 3 or 4 miles from Londonderry. The honourable member has told me that a jet aircraft at a distance of 3 miles has a sweet soothing sound which lulls one off in the same way that a lullaby would. So 1 think the honourable member for Chifley should get his facts straight before bringing matters before the House. 
The honourable member then said some unpleasant things about the PostmasterGeneral  (Mr Hulme)  in regard to telephones, but again he had his figures mixed up. In 1964 the number of applications for a telephone service which were deferred was 29,471, but because the present PostmasterGeneral has applied to New South Wales 43% of the Post Office allocation for telephone services the number of deferrals has been progressively reduced. In 1965 there were 21,102 deferrals; in 1966 there were 13,061; in 1967 there were 8,396; in 1968 there were 5,703; and at 30th June last year there were 3,505. It can be seen that there has been a great improvement. The honourable member for Chifley cited figures to show the number of deferrals at 31st January, but there is always an increase in the number in January because of the Christmas holidays. In that month the number of deferrals increased to 5,000, but by 30th June the number will have been reduced. 
The Postmaster-General, the linemen and all the technicians have done a tremendous job in reducing the number of deferrals to 3,505. If the situation continues to improve the number should be about 1,500 by 30th June. This is a tremendous effort for which we should show our appreciation to the engineers, technicians and others. I know that people have been inconvenienced by not being able to have a telephone service connected, but many factors must be borne in mind. In about 1967 there was a delay of almost 1 year in bringing from overseas equipment which could not be obtained in Australia. But problems of this kind have been overcome. In my opinion the PostmasterGeneral should be congratulated. 
I should point out also that the allocation to the Post Office in 1963-64 was $137m and that in 1969 it was$362m, an increase of 264%. Although the percentage allocated to New South Wales has fallen slightly, that State, which is the premier State, has had a great number of telephones installed and has received very great consideration. To use the honourable member's words and to state that the PostmasterGeneral has used his influence to see that the people in Queensland who require telephones receive priority over people in other States is to make a statement which is so petty that it is not worthy of a reply. 
Is the Postmaster-General aware of the agony and distress given to many Australians because of the presentation by the Australian Broadcasting Commission of 'Son of Man'? Is he aware that  Sir Robert  Madgwick has publicly stated that it is not the function of the ABC to set standards of culture, morals and ethics? Was the Australian Broadcasting Commission not set up for this purpose and this purpose alone? Will the Government consider setting up a corporation to take over the whole of the structure of the ABC? Is it a fact that the general manager,  Mr Duckmanton,  is to receive an appointment overseas? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Services. Is he aware that there are many social benefits available for people on low incomes and in indigent circumstances from Commonwealth social services, the State services and church  and  other organisations? Is he or the Government doing anything to assist deserving people to get this assistance? 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  tonight the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  ranged from Cromwell to Billy Hughes and the back of Bourke. He spoke about standards. The standards of this House will be only as good as the standards of the individual. Having regard to what we witnessed last night and early this morning we cannot hope for very great standards in the future. The honourable member said that the gag had not been moved in the Senate for some 7 years. If he had paused to think for a moment he would have realised that in the other place there are only half as many members as there are in this place. This is a house of initiation. Much more is accomplished here. If the Senate stuck to its job of being a house of review it would be much better for Australia and the Parliament. 
We have been treated to a burlesque show in this place tonight in order to divert the attention of those listening to the debate from the central facts of what occurred here last night and early this morning. The honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly),  the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  and the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  gave expositions of soap box oratory the like of which we have not heard in this chamber. Their sole purpose was to gloss over one of the most wretched and damnable episodes ever perpetrated in this House. 
Claimants in the courts of our land must appear with clean hands. Before bringing this matter before the House the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  should have made sure that he had clean hands - that he could come in as a man of honour and move this motion of censure. If we go back through the annals of this Parliament since federation we find that we had our Doctor Moloney, our King O'Malley, our Eddie Ward and our Brennan. But we have never had anybody who has so degraded, depraved and denigrated the Parliament as has the 
Leader of the Opposition. He has used the great Australian adjective in addressing a very senior Minister in this Parliament. He used a most vile four letter word to a former Attorney-General. 
The Leader of toe Opposition chided a former Minister for External Affairs because he came from the lowly home of Salvation Army parents. The former Minister, with great dignity, replied with a sting that must have hurt. What did the Leader of the Opposition do? In a dirty sly manner he picked up a glass of water. He did not do it impetuously, but took aim and threw it at the Minister. No more vile act has been perpetrated in this Parliament than what the Leader of the Opposition did on that occasion. I am informed by a learned friend at the bar that had he acted in this way as a barrister in the Supreme Court he would have been expelled for at least 5 years. Had he committed the act in the South Sydney Rugby League Club he would have been expelled for life. Yet he has the audacity to move this motion ag inst the Leader of the House  (Mr Snedden),  whom the Leader of the Opposition was trying to drag into a certain situation. 
Let us get back to what happened: It was a battle of tactics and the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  was playing his hand very shrewdly and cunningly. He had the amendments tucked away in the Clerk's drawer and he would not reveal their contents or when he intended to move them. These are the facts of the matter and it is good that listeners to the debate should know them. When the honourable member for Dawson was beaten at his own game he squealed like all those people who can give it but cannot take it, and the gag was moved. Means were open to the Opposition to take exception to this action if it were necessary or desirable but not one honourable member opposite who has spoken tonight has mentioned the great dignity, patience and decorum exercised by  Mr Speaker  last night in very difficult conditions. Let me read from Hansard so that listeners may be aware of the dignity and patience which  Mr Speaker  exercised last night. The report reads: 
What a wonderful demonstration of dignity and patience, yet we saw the mob gang together and as they gathered around the honourable member for Wills it looked as though it was a graveside scene. Of course it was a graveside scene. It was a sad scene. We saw democracy being buried and the chief perpetrator was the Leader of the Opposition. Afterwards I was so attracted by his sanctimonious manner in addressing the Press Gallery that I had a sketch made of the scene with the Leader of the Opposition holding both arms up and pleading with them to treat him lightly because they had heard what he had said at the graveside ceremony in the House. 
No,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  this Parliament was degraded and brought lower than at any stage of its history. I have spoken of the tactics that were adopted here last night. Because the Opposition was beaten it took up a point against a  Speaker  who was in no way involved. Members of the Opposition had many other ways in which they could have dealt with the situation. I support the amendment moved by our Prime Minister and I congratulate the Leader of the House on his management of the House. He has done his job quite well. All yesterday afternoon the bells were ringing because the Opposition called quorums. Members of the Opposition used delaying tactics the whole time because they did not want a Bill to go through just as they do not want the proposed health Bill to go through. Yet under this Bill people will not have to pay more than $5 for the most expensive operation from 1st July. No, members of the Opposition would rather have the proposed health Bill delayed for many months so that people in indigent circumstances will not be able to have this advantage. 
Unfortunately, yesterday and early this morning was a black period for democracy in Australia. Events in this period of time were led and abetted by the Leader of the Opposition who has depraved, degraded and denigrated Parliament more than any other member of this House since federation. 
I ask the Prime Minister whether he will consider removing all employees in commercial and industrial undertakings of the Commonwealth from the jurisdiction of the Public Service Board. 
1 ask the Minister for Labour and National Service a question. Is all now serene on the waterfront? If so, how long will this situation last? 
The Bill contains some admirable amendments to the principal Act but in the main does not go far enough. It would be advisable at this stage to give a short resume of the history of this scheme. When the scheme was introduced there was no comparable legislation anywhere in the world which could give the Government guide lines with respect to such matters as the form of savings and the point at which the applicant would become eligible for a grant - the date of commencement of erection of the home or the date of signing of the contract. Because in the first year of the scheme persons eligible for a grant would nol be fully aware of the conditions under which they could obtain a grant, the Minister in charge of the legislation decided to interpret it liberally in favour of applicants. This was of great benefit to young people seeking assistance to obtain a home - people who in my opinion make up one of the most deserving sections of the community. But I regret that after the first year of operation of the scheme the tolerant and liberal interpretation was no longer applied. The legislation gave the Minister no discretion to deal with the many anomalies that could not possibly have been foreseen in the early stages. 
The provision in this Bill to bring divorced persons with dependent children within the scope of the Act will meet with the approbation of most honourable members. Similarly, most honourable members will support the provision to increase to $17,500 the value of a residence which may attract a grant. I think that the conditions applying to credit unions are fair, just and reasonable. At present credit unions are geared to lend smaller amounts than are required by people erecting or purchasing their own homes. The provision that credit union loans for housing shall be not less than $7,000 will benefit many people. 
Now let me deal with the general position. The scheme was initiated to encourage young people to save. The grant was intended to be a premium on thrift, but unfortunately the more thrifty have been penalised. I refer to the cost of building. In outlining the provisions of the scheme  Sir Robert  Menzies definitely stated that the cost of the home as distinct from its value would determine whether a person obtained a grant. The first pamphlets that were prepared by the Department of Housing and which were obtainable from post offices throughout the country referred to the cost of a home, not the value. The Labor Party is so inefficient that it has not realised this. The pamphlets that were available from post offices stated that if the cost of the home did not exceed $15,000 the owner was entitled to a grant. It is up to this Government to honour its promise. We should have stuck to that wording. It was a mistake; the Act refers to value, but we should have kept to the agreement that was embodied in the pamphlets that were distributed. I never agreed with the proposal that rooney in a savings bank account could not attract a grant unless the account was designated as a homes savings account. This was unfortunate. The scheme went through many phases. The purchasing of land on terms was included as a prescribed form of savings. That was good, but having gone as far as that we should have honoured the statements contained in the pamphlets that were issued. 
I would like to say a few words about the high cost of homes in New South Wales. The major contributing factor to this high cost is the cost of land. Land in New South Wales is dear solely because the Labor Government in that State set up the Cumberland County .Council. Before this was done you could have bought land anywhere in the Parramatta or Merrylands area for $500 a block, but as soon as the Cumberland County Council was formed and engaged in its secret zoning of land, involving star chamber methods, land prices soared. 
The Cumberland County Council was conceived in deceit. It was born and nurtured in corruption. It had no possible chance of ever being brought into being in New South Wales but for the deceit and the subterfuge used in bringing it about. Land owners were told that if they had negative zoning they would be compensated for injurious affection. People engaged valuators and solicitors and thousands upon thousands of applications went in for compensation for injurious affection. The very first case that went before the Land and Valuation Court was not upheld. The people associated with the introduction of the Cumberland County Council laughed and said: 'We always knew that it would not survive'. So they brought it in in deceit and in subterfuge. Since then there has been a gradual increase in land prices. This has been brought about by thousands upon thousands of residential blocks of land that had been subdivided years before being put under the counter. This created a black market and even to the present time in the area in which I live thousands of blocks of land are lying idle which would have been developed but for the Cumberland County Council and its successor, the State Planning Authority of New South Wales. This land would have been built on. Men returning from the war purchased this land at very low cost and this is an area which would have gradually improved. 

 Mr Uren - I rise to a point of order. I have been tolerant, if I may so, toward the honourable member in not interjecting. He has been discussing the Cumberland County Council scheme for some time. I do not know that that is mentioned in the Bill. The hour is now late and I draw the honourable member's attention to the Bill now before the House. 
Yes, the truth always hurts. The advent of the State Planning Authority after the Cumberland County Council which was reeking with so much- 
Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  The Cumberland County Council was so steeped in corruption and bribery that the then State Government had to get rid of it in some way, so the Government brought in the State Planning Authority which would be one of the most evil institutions ever established in Australia. It, too, because of its secret zoning, has caused confusion, inefficiency and uncertainty. Land owners do not know from day to day just what they can do with their properties. Marcus Clark's land was described as green belt between Fox Valley and the Pacific Highway. The then Minister for Local Government in the Labor Administration in New South Wales stated that this land would be held in perpetuity as green belt for the future people of New South Wales. Now listen to me everyone. The amount paid, over within 12 months to allow it to be developed and received by some people was $500,000. This land was to have been reserved for posterity forever, but within 12 months it was taken over and the 'side' was $500,000. Honourable members ask me to prove this. How can one prove this with the stealth and cunningness of the people who are dealing with it? Luna Park comes into this. The honourable member who interjects is aware of the evil that has gone on in this area. Let him stand and be a man and express his opposition to it as I am doing now. The average person in Blacktown and in similar areas cannot buy a block of ground under $5,000 because of the corruption and the rottenness of a previous Government in New South Wales which is being perpetuated unfortunately and assisted by a Liberal Party at the present time in New South Wales. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
In Committee 
Clauses 1 to  A  - by leave - taken together. 
The word Education' has been so bandied about in recent years that one wishes one could find a synonym rather than use the word. Within the broad field of education there is today an activity we identify as the education of the deaf, lt is a bona fide, honest to goodness activity and it is necessarily related to other fields. It is a subdivision of the broader field of education generally. This is definitely a little known field. It was unknown to me until I became acquainted with Brother McGrath of St Gabriel's School for Deaf Boys, Castle Hill. It is a fallacy to suppose that by failing to deal with a particular problem you cause the problem to go away. You cannot solve a problem by submitting that it is of little importance. This is an attitude which you do not state openly or expressly and thus invite criticism; you simply take it for granted that the problem can be ignored. This approach you insinuate silently and insidiously . 
I say quite deliberately that no subject has been more studiously neglected than the education of profoundly deaf children. For the most part these children have normal intelligence. Their vocal cords are as healthy as yours and mine. Yet they are leaving school at 15 or 16 years of age, unintelligible and well nigh illiterate. They are entering a world in which economic and scientific advances require higher and higher levels of education. Such a situation must border on the criminal. The needs of deaf children are not recognised. There is a general lack of awareness that a crisis exists in this field, but the crisis will continue to exist so long as governments determinedly and successfully close their eyes to the ever widening gap between the deaf and society generally. 
Unfortunately, due to a slight epedimic of german measles in 1 965, about 1 50 profoundly deaf children were born in New South Wales. They have a hearing impairment of between 90 and 100 decibels but they have an intelligence quotient of 100 or more. Such a child will probably follow the general pattern and leave school at the age of 16 years with at best a grade V or grade VI education - much the same as he or she would have had 20 or 25 years ago. Of course, there are the isolated and admirable examples of deaf children achieving fame despite the substandard facilities offered to them, but our education system is not directed towards this minority group. In the last 9 years 63 of the children in a school for profoundly deaf children in Missouri have graduated from formII at the school for the deaf to form III in schools for children who can hear. Nine of those deaf children have proceeded to tertiary education. The comparison between what can be clone in Missouri and what is done in this country should be embarrassing. 
Deafness is the most profound handicap a child may bear. The great Helen Keller, who regarded her deafness as a far greater handicap than her blindness, once said: Ours is not the silence that soothes the weary senses. Deafness isolates cruelly and completely because hearing is the deepest philosophical sense that man possesses.' The impact of deafness on the communication process, the development of language and the acquisition of knowledge is difficult to estimate because language is the indispensable tool of: learning, acquired with very little effort by the child who can hear but acquired only after great effort and determination by deaf children. 
In calling for opportunities for deaf people to realise their potential we must appreciate that theirs is a unique handicap. Whatever money might be spent on children whose brains have been damaged - I recognise the urgency of their need - we must remember that because of their handicap they will not attain more than third or fourth grade of academic study. The vital fact of profound deafness is that for the most part these children do not suffer from brain damage. They have normal intelligence and given the opportunity they would realise unlimited potential. It is inevitable that the future of these children will be already decided while ever the present attitudes of State and Federal governments persist. 
Let me be frank: The disability resulting from severe deafness is both complex and pervasive and calls for a range of educational and other efforts that are equally complex. State governments cannot fail to foster the declining status quo in their respective States. The Federal Government will need to offer a programme of planning grants to be used to assist and to encourage the States to develop individual State plans for the education of the deaf. This they will have to do through national studies and subsequent legislation so that they and the Commonwealth can provide funds for the planning of an aggressive attack on the needs of deaf children. Undoubtedly we all are sympathetic towards these children, but we have not done enough to enable them to realise their full potential. 
My question without notice is directed to the Attorney-General. Has his attention been drawn to- 
1 concur with most of what is included in the Bill but I am of the opinion that the difficulty in getting the personnel for these positions arises from the fact that the junior members of the drafting service still come under the Public Service Board. We are removing the heads of the Department from it and calling them counsellors but we do not go far enough. We will still have these expert people associated with the Public Service Board. I do not think we can expect to attract people of the calibre that we require, people who are dedicated and who have to work at odd times - each and every honourable member who has spoken has paid tribute to them tonight and, so do 1 - at the salaries presently offered. 1 can see that their being associated with and under the jurisdiction of the Public Service Board it will not be easy to raise their status and give them that satisfaction of employment that people of their ability would like to have. Other than that, I congratulate the Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes)  but 1 hope that the members of the drafting staff will be dissociated from the Public Service Board. 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. Is he aware that many of the personnel of the 3 defence forces are in urgent need of the rebate from the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund which they expected to receive by the end of April? Is he aware that their liquid position is not good? Can he advise when the payment will be made? 
I support the National Health Bill and oppose the amendment moved by the Opposition. One can only sympathise with the Opposition for its weak and ineffective opposition, and its lack of constructive criticism, positive suggestions or proposals. The same tactics are adopted for many Bills that come before this House. You can bet London to a brick that any amendment moved by the Opposition will commence with the words 'whilst not opposing the Bill' and then blah, blah, blah. Of course the Australian Labor Party dares not oppose and vote against this Bill because it realises full well that its enactment and implementation will be of immense value and will represent a great improvement to the medical services of Australia. 
My friend, the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly),  in his usual hilarious manner, gave a discourse in this debate which as usual one could enjoy, but he did not make any worthwhile or significant contribution. He did say that the entire scheme was dependent upon the goodwill and co-operation of the medical profession. But,  Mr Speaker,  how could it succeed unless the main component involved in it did not co-operate and honestly endeavour to make it function in the best interests of the entire community? It is a well established maxim that any agreement or partnership must be just, fair and equitable to all parties involved and that no party should have a lion's share of the advantages. Such an agreement is embodied in the Bill before this House and it does require the assistance, understanding and co-operation of the medical profession. Greatly to the disappointment and disconcertment of the Opposition this Bill will get this co-operation from the medical profession. 
The compilation, the structure, the building up of this Bill represent one of the greatest expositions of democracy that we have witnessed for many a day. The Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes),  the chief architect, is to be congratulated for his diligence, assiduousness, patience, tolerance, forthrightness, and energy and, above all, his understanding of this most complex and difficult Bill. He realised from the outset that there would be differences of opinion within the medical profession. In the main those difficulties were propounded by the Austraiian Medical Association on the one hand and the College of General Practitioners on the other. Other groups offered advice and criticism from time to time. It was right and proper that the Minister should confer with the recognised association of the medical profession, the AMA. 1 think 1 would be correct in saying that never before has a Bill attracted so much attention, so many conferences and, certainly, so many meetings of the Government parties as well as many meetings of Government supporters with local branches of the medical profession. As a result of all this great effort, in the next few weeks a Bill will be enacted which will satisfy, as nearly as is humanly possible, the main parties involved in it. 
On Sunday night I had the pleasure and privilege of meeting about 40 medical practitioners, 5 of whom were migrants from England. Those 5 practitioners came to Australia not for monetary gain but in order to practise medicine in the highest tradition of that great and noble profession. I was appalled at the genuine and sincere fear of the doctors that as general practitioners their position and influence in the community was deteriorating and that the implementation of this health scheme would further aid and abet this decline. I learnt that one of the doctors present consulted up to 85 patients a day. The minimal number of patients per day for any doctor present was 35. They made it abundantly clear that monetary gain played no part in their concern. They were doing quite well and probably would do better financially under the new scheme albeit that they would have to pay a large portion of their net earnings in taxation. 
There were two major problems, as they viewed the situation. The first was an acceptable system of updating rebates. The second was the system of referral. As I understand it the AMA wanted the legislation to underwrite any increase the medical profession may decide upon in the future. They wanted this embodied in the legislation. Of course this was untenable and could not be acceded to. However the Minister for Health has given an assurance that consideration will be given from time to time to updating rebates. This should allay the fears of the medical profession. 
The other problem area was the differential rebate system. The doctors said that this was justifiable in itself but that it was bound up with the $5 moiety. The general practitioners do not fear a stampede of patients to specialists but they do fear that there will be a tendency for the patient to have specialists do the work. They fear that this tendency will cause over-utilisation of expensive specialist services when they are not justified on medical grounds. They said it would also lead to progressive general practitioner dissatisfaction with conditions of practice and consequently a lowering of morale. Hence, they said, the number of general practitioners will fall because of four things. Firstly, the scheme would further encourage graduates to specialise. Secondly, it would discourage graduates with specialist degrees from considering entering general practice. Thirdly, it would encourage general practitioners with specialist degrees to convert to full time specialisation. Fourthly, it would discourage the inflow of general practitioners from the United Kingdom. The United States of America may appear more attractive. 
I shall deal with the above statements separately. The first is the fear that this scheme will further encourage young graduates to specialise. I do not think this will occur. I trust that they will take higher degrees and practice within a panel or a group. It has been represented - and I know of my own knowledge - that it is difficult for a specialist in the first year of practice to make ends meet, although the establishment of medical centres in the outer suburbs and in larger country towns makes the risk of setting up as a specialist less hazardous. The second reason is that it will discourage graduates with specialist degrees from considering entering general practice. I am honoured and pleased that an assurance was given to me yesterday by the Minister which dispels this apprehension because a practitioner with a higher degree and, of course, with adequate experience who satisfies a board of the Australian Medical Association or some similar authority as to his capability, will be regarded as a specialist and treated as such. I think the foregoing will cover the third point which is that it will encourage general practitioners with specialist degrees to convert to full time specialists. 
The Minister stated that yesterday in answer to a question I asked him. The fourth point is that it will discourage the inflow of general practitioners from the United Kingdom; the United States may appear more attractive. I think this suggestion is hypothetical and I am of the opinion, as stated previously, that the scheme will be accepted generally after the amendments suggested by the medical profession, more particularly by the general practitioners, have been considered. The Minister has assured the general practitioners that he will watch the overutilisation of the specialist services. They feel that over-utilisation will happen too quickly and it will be too late to do anything about it. I have great confidence in the general practitioners. We must do everything possible to uphold the status and prestige of the general practitioner and at all costs preserve the doctor-patient and doctor-family relationship. I ask the general practitioners where there is a large panel of doctors to roster more doctors for the evening surgery so that patients will not have to wait long periods before being treated. 
I know there will be difficulties in regard to referral because there is no standardisation. What one practitioner would be prepared to refer another would not because every doctor's degree of ability varies according to his experience and training. The lone practitioner may find himself in difficulty but his position under the old scheme is no different from that under the new scheme. With a panel of doctors surely this difficulty, if not resolved, can be alleviated. I point out that in New South Wales it is unethical for doctors to refuse to refer on request. Though there has not been unanimity within the profession and within the Government, and between both sections, no-one can deny that there has been an honest attempt by all to achieve the best possible scheme. As I stated, the task was a formidable one and I again congratulate the Minister, the Australian Medical Association, the College of General Practitioners and others who have made a contribution without spleen but with an earnest desire to achieve the ultimate. I deprecate the unkind, unworthy and irresponsible attacks that have been directed at the medical profession. They arise mainly from ignorance and a lack of knowledge and appreciation of the situation. In all my experience I do not know of any one medical practitioner, whether he be a general practitioner or specialist, who has not been prepared to accept the rebate from the medical funds as full payment for his services where the circumstances of the patient warranted it. I have known of many occasions where doctors have foregone all fees that were due to them by improvident people who have not insured themselves. As the Minister stated, under this scheme patient protection and financial protection were the aims. The Prime Minister said in his speech that the cardinal point was the maximum cost of any one operation would be $5. I think we have to differentiate. We are all apt to think of surgical operations as paramount to other fields of medicine. I think the minimal charge will cause difficulty in the physician-specialist scheme because it will be necessary for the specialist to attend the patient more frequently and many more services will be required. There will be the pathology test and the radiologist will also have to be called. There will be so many services that it may be difficult for the scheme to operate in this field. J would like the Minister to give us some better understanding of this matter. 
Physiotherapists are another field. This is a new scheme and despite all the conferences and dialogues that have taken place there will still be anomalies that cannot be foreseen at this stage. The medical profession over the years has always been held in high regard. During our earlier years we knew that the local doctor was revered. I trust that the efforts made by all will be of great value to the community, particularly to those people most in need. Opposition members mentioned the rebate that people on the lower incomes would get and then criticised the Government for not going further and for cutting out at $48. They say it should have been extended further. But the paradox of this argument is that although Opposition members criticised the Government for not making services available over a larger range they also criticised the Government because of the cost. It is simple arithmetic that if a range is extended the cost is also extended and the Opposition took the Government to task because of the increased cost. I commend the Bill to the House and I oppose the amendment moved by the Opposition. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Trade and Industry. If an acquisition scheme has not been evolved how can all sections of the wool industry be in favour of it? Is he aware that 25% of wool growers produce 75% of the total wool clip and that the majority of the said 25% of producers are opposed to a wool acquisition scheme; that is. that producers of over 50% of the wool clip are opposed to acquisition? 
Has the attention of the Postmaster-General been drawn to the fact that the Australian Broadcasting Commission frequently has committed a breach of the Broadcasting and Television Act by granting free advertising time during 'This Day Tonight' and 'Four Corners' programmes? Is he aware that over a period many business organisations have been getting free plugs on these programmes to the detriment of their competitors? Is he aware that this procedure is considered dishonourable by the people affected and that it creates suspicions of irregular practices? 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Navy, ls he aware of the many sailing ships of great magnificence that have visited Australia as training ships of several nations? Does he or do his advisers consider that the sailing ships are still a good medium for initial training in a navy? I ask: Is it possible to have another ship built to the specification of Cook's Endeavour'? Could it be completed in time for the tri-centenary? 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes, blatantly. The PostmasterGeneral is reported on page 2239 of Hansard of 15th May as having said: 
I felt that it would be desirable that he, and others who are greatly critical, should have a discussion with the  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. I endeavoured to arrange such a discussion and I understand an invitation was issued to the honourable member but that he was not prepared to accept it. 
That is not in accordance with the facts. My secretary and I have deived through my files, and on 15th July 1969 I did receive a letter from  Sir Robert  Madgwick. It was a Mae West: Please call up and see me some time. That is the only notification I have ever received. 
I wish to make a few observations. The Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Sinclair)  seemed to be confused about my remarks referring to the Corporation and the borrowing company. The honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  missed the point that it is most desirable that the equity in a company be not held for a long period. If a company is well established and is able to carry on, the equity in it can be sold. Surely the aim of the Corporation should be to assist as many companies or firms as possible. By retaining equity in a company and not capitalising it, the Corporation is defeating the revolving attitude to funds at which it should be aiming. The observations of the honourable member for Lalor fall down on this point because by retaining equity in a company the Corporation would be prevented from assisting other companies. 
If the amendment to clause 8 (2.) were not so serious it would be humorous. The Australian Industry Development Corporation, if it sticks strictly to clause 8 (2.) of the Bill, will not provide assistance in relation to a particular company unless it is satisfied that that company will operate in an efficient manner and on a profitable basis. I challenge any lender of money who wishes to lend money to a company not formed to lend money within the provisions of that clause. 1 defy any lender of money to do that, because there are many unknowns such as death and sickness that can operate. No lender of money could honestly lend money under that clause. This highlights one of the faults in the scheme that has been brought before the Parliament. As I said previously, the clause is unnecessary and redundant. The only company that the Corporation would bc able to assist would be a company in existence. Because of the limitation of funds available, the Corporation is not likely to be of any great value to any company or firm in Australia. 
The debate on this clause gives me the opportunity to speak, which I did not have in the second reading debate. I want to state now that the functions of this Corporation are not desirable and that, if ever a redundant, unnecessary and unwarranted Bill was brought before this chamber, this is that Bill. We have heard a lot of fairy floss spoken in regard to this matter. Dealing with the matter broadly and with the functions of borrower and lender, let me say that this Corporation, if it was functioning- 
The  CHAIRMAN (Mr Lucock)Order!  I point out to the honourable member for Hindmarsh that clause 6, which we are now discussing, relates to the functions of the Corporation. This affords a fairly wide sphere of discussion. The amendment also enables a discussion in fairly general terms. As long as an honourable member keeps within the limits of the clause and the amendment he will be in order. 
I am dealing with the function of the proposed Corporation. Had I been able to speak during the second reading I would have discussed this matter more fully. The aims of the Corporation are most estimable, but I question its functions. Anyone with meagre experience would know that the organisations proposed to be assisted would never have the opportunity of being assisted by any recognised lending authority. For this reason it is probable that the Corporation will lose much money. The expense involved in enabling the Corporation to fulfil its functions will be tremendous. There is nothing in the functions of the Corporation that the Australian Resources Development Bank could not do, and do much better, because of the vast experience and training of the people associated with it. It seems to me that by establishing the proposed organisation we will have another redundant Public Service organisation which will cost many hundreds of thousands of dollars a year to finance. Anyone who thinks that the Corporation will be able to borrow money for its stated purposes and functions is indulging in wishful thinking and has had no knowledge of the handling and borrowing of money. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause  7  agreed to. 
Clause  8. 
In providing assistance in relation to a particular company, or in relation to companies engaged or proposing to engage in a particular industry, the Corporation shall pursue a policy directed to securing, to the greatest extent that is practicable, participation by Australian residents in the ownership of the capital, and in the control, of that company or of the companies engaged or proposing to engage in that industry. (2.) In the performance of its functions the Corporation shall act in accordance with sound business principles and the Corporation shall not provide assistance in relation to a particular company unless it is satisfied that the company will operate in an efficient manner and on a profitable basis. (3.) The Corporation - 
shall not provide assistance to a company except al the request, or with the consent, of that company; 
shall not provide assistance to a company by subscribing for shares in that company except al the request, or with the consent, of that company: and 
shall endeavour, so far as practicable, to avoid becoming or remaining in a position where it is able to control or manage the affairs of a company to which it provides assistance. (6.) The exercise of any powers by the Corporalion is not invalid, and shall not be called in question, by reason of any failure of the Corporation to comply with  any  of its obligations under this section. 
Is the Minister for External Affairs aware that the honourable member for St George while stationed at Kuala Lumpur as a counsellor associated with the extreme left and those who hold to a radical and extremist line towards any capitalist country? Is he aware that the honourable member for St George is the chief spokesman in the Opposition for South East Asian affairs? Has he stated that Australians are not welcome in Malaysia? Has this statement been rejected absolutely in that country and been received with puzzlement and amusement? Is he also aware that the honourable member was domiciled in Russia for some time? 
1 addressed this House only recently on the subject of profoundly deaf children and return to it for 2 reasons: firstly, because of the general unawareness and ignorance that abound on the problem of deafness and secondly, because of the widespread, long-standing neglect of deaf children by Federal and State governments, and I might add, by society generally. I am more or less an amateur in this field, although a good deal better informed than I was. Most outsiders look upon deafness as simply one of a number of afflictions that are classified loosely as a handicap. They imagine that one is just as unfortunate as the other. Most outsiders, quite incorrectly, consider deafness as a case of gradual and partial loss that comes on with agc. They would, I am sure, be stunned, as I was, by the realisation of the fact that the child born totally deaf - and otherwise normal - comes into the world with a burden of staggering proportions. 
Consider this single fact: A child with normal hearing at the age of 4 or 5 years has all the basic structure of his native language without ever having been taught, solely by being communicated with. How can a child who is born profoundly deaf learn his native language? The answer is: He does not. Further enlightenment might come to an outsider by considering that what 1 might term 'the old fashioned deafness' - cases when deafness was a single handicap - is giving way to the more complex problem of the growing population of the multiple handicapped deaf children. 
I mentioned as my second reason for addressing honourable members on the problem of the profoundly deaf child the widespread and long-standing neglect by both Federal and State government We are, all of us, familiar with the thinking of not so many years ago that put ali these human problems into the dark backwaters of institutionalisation. We have hidden the mentally retarded, the afflicted, behind the walls of protective custody. We kidded ourselves they did not exist. 
Deafness too has shared this treatment. We will profit nothing by submerging any social problem. Perhaps the following statements will answer the question: Are we guilty today in 1970 of studiously and deliberately submerging a critical social problem? There has never been a Commonwealth or State inquiry into the needs crf deaf children. In no State of Australia is the person in charge of the education of the deaf an educator of the deaf. Imagine the chaos if this was the case in the area of science and mathematics. States do not even have comprehensive State plans for the education of their deaf. There is no single authority to co-ordinate educational and para-educational facilties within most States. Supervision of the work of teachers and of the children themselves is almost nonexistent. Obsolete, defective aud inadequate auditory training equipment is apparent. The increase in the number of day classes for the deaf is not accompanied by a concomitant increase in the number of supervisory personnel. In an era characterised by sophisticated teaching methods and well prepared books, most schools for the deaf in this country are fumbling still with unprofessional, ill prepared guidelines and syllabi. 
Much more could be said. However, the central issues are: Urgent need for teachers of the deaf and adequate facilities for diagnosis, assessment and parent gu:dance. Although speaking as an outsider in this field I hope I am speaking for a society that is ashamed that it has looked the other way for so long when the problem of the profoundly deaf child has been mentioned. I was one of that society. I hope, too, that I am speaking for a Government that is at least, after long years of looking the other way, prepared to come to grips with the problem. In my electorate at St Gabriel's School for the Deaf we have a wonderful, dedicated man in Brother Jerry McGrath. 
He is a wonderful man and he is assisted by other wonderful men. He has been invited to Stockholm to participate in a very scientific symposium for the teaching of the deaf. Of course, the school I am most interested in is not blessed with great amounts of money. I appeal to all honourable members and to anyone who may be listening to assist us to send Brother McGrath to Stockholm. He is a man of great learning, a man that can assimilate, but above all a man who can disseminate what he has learned. In 1965 or 1966 there were about 150 children born who are profoundly deaf. If we could have had them brought to this school when they were about 1 year old they now would be able to speak their native language. So this is a wonderful opportunity for people of goodwill to assist us in this regard. I appeal to anyone, especially honourable members who can help us, to send a donation to St Gabriel's School for the Deaf, Old Northern Road. Castle Hill. People who make such donations will be doing a magnificent work of charity, assisting people who cannot assist themselves, and helping Brother McGrath and his staff in the great and wonderful work that they are carrying out. 
I always enjoy hearing my friend the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  speak on such matters as the one now before the House, the International Monetary Agreements Bill 1970. Though we have slight differences in the main we are in agreement. I join with him in the remarks that he made regarding the fictitious value of gold which has now been replaced - we hope successfully - by another fictitious form of currency which the honourable member called 'paper gold'. I think we should be proud that the former Treasurer, now the Minister for External Affairs  (Mr McMahon).  did take a very active interest in the creation of this fictitious substitute for gold, ft is in the experimental stages, of course, but it has got off to a reasonably good start. On the basis of papers which 1 have read only in the last 2 hours I trust that I will be able to make a reasonable contribution. I am more or less in the same position as the honourable member for Melbourne Ports. I was caught unawares in regard to this matter. So far as Australia is concerned we have come out of the matter reasonably well. The Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  said in his second reading speech: 
A Bill was put before the House on this subject in December 1968 and parliamentary approval was obtained then to Australian participation in the scheme. Australia has since received a first allocation of SA75m for the calendar year 1970 and should receive additional allocation'; of about $A60m in each of the succeeding years, 1971 and 1972. 
The purpose of the Bill is to increase our allocations. From an international point of view we have got off to a good start for 1970. The balance of payments position and financial difficulties of the various countries received a fillip, and we set off on 1st January 1970 as the first date on which the allocations were made. The franc appeared much better after the fight in regard to the gold standard earlier in 1969 and before that in 1968 when the franc was in a desperate position from time to time and with the Russians holding large reserves of gold it did appear that something had to bc done to protect the international monetary system and trade between nations. 
In England the position improved and it now appears that although there will certainly bc many difficulties, there is a reasonable chance of the scheme succeeding. For the first time in history the world will start to use an international currency which is independent of any national government, which is nol backed by gold or any other precious metal, although it does have a nominal gold value guarantee, and it can be increased simply by international negotiation. This may be right but tradition dies hard and we will find that gold will not fall. This may not always be the position but for the next 50 to 100 years gold will still attract and will have that traditional value, although fictitious, which appears to bring about a sense of security, which no other form of currency has been able to do since time immemorial. The immediate effect of the special drawing rights scheme has lo a small if imponderable extent been undermined by the agreement on South African gold sales. That country, like my friend from Coolgardie, wants to keep up the value of gold, which is understandable, for it is the bread and butter of the people in Kalgoorlie as it is of the people of South Africa. 
Since it was also believed that the United States would be obliged to end its balance of payment deficit, the only source of new international liquidity would be through the increase in the International Monetary Fund's loanable funds by means of bigger equity subscriptions or steadily expanding distributions of special drawing rates. That is why we are dealing with this Bill tonight. In the event, the American deficit has got even bigger and the agreement with South Africa has reopened the door to increases in official monetary and gold holdings. So the desire lo continue with the gold standard will persist. 
If the gold mining groups were correct in believing that industrial demand has already overtaken production - while it may not be true today, it will probably be true in a few years time - then South Africa will have little long term need to sell outside the free market. Moreover, any sales which are made to the Fund will put gold at the service of the international community at large, in contrast with the past 10 years when it was frequently used as a weapon in the diplomatic war between France and the United States. The initial distribution of the special drawing rights which took place on 1st January this year will amount to $US3,500m. This will be followed by a further allocation of $US3,000m on 1st January 1971 and $US3,500m, I think in 1972. At the moment the special drawing rights may well become the only source of new liquidity and they may also replace the dollar as the standard of value for other currencies. 
The one thing that seems vitally certain is that gold will play a diminishing role in the international monetary system, whatever the South Africans may claim. I think that the honourable member for Melbourne Ports and I can take heart from the possibility and the feasibility that the scheme commenced last year by the International Monetary Fund will succeed. After all, I suppose we could use a different word for the currency that we are creating. I think the honourable member for Melbourne Ports will agree with me that we could substitute the word 'confidence' because that is the beginning and the end of international finance. If the International Monetary Fund, through this paper gold, can create confidence then it may ease the balance of payments position of several countries which, in many cases, is only for a transitory period. It requires only the confidence of the other members of the Fund, and I think this is being created. I commend the Bill to the House and I congratulate the honourable member for Melbourne Ports upon his usual worthwhile contribution to such debates. 
The Bill before the House conforms with a promise made in the policy speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton).  This promise was not challenged by the Opposition during the election campaign. The Prime Minister staled in his policy speech there would be capita] assistance of $2 for each $t towards the cost of building institutions which give training to various types of handicapped children. As a member of the Government Members Social Services Committee, J have been on tours of inspection of and have obtained information about the many wonderful institutions set up by religious and other organisations to assist these children. I was appalled to learn that in this modern scientific era, with a population of only 12 million, there are in Australia 50,000 children handicapped in various ways and at different stages. The States are primarily responsible for the care and training of such children. However, this does not prevent or preclude the Commonwealth from assisting to the maximum the institutions carrying on such services. At this stage 1 think I express the sentiments of all honourable members in this House when 1 offer our appreciation and gratitude to those people who render such dedicated and self-sacrificing service to handicapped children. 
This Bill is most estimable and will make a worthwhile contribution to the erection of schools and premises for the children. I would like it to go much further; of course, all honourable members would. In those areas where schools. and buildings are now provided I would like the Government to subsidise the . payment of staff and equipment of such schools, As I toured the various institutions, how I wished I had much more time to devote to each and every one. This, of course, is not available. However, one can do much in many ways to assist. 
I have been attracted to the profoundly deaf who, along with the spastic children, offer the greatest' potential in training and achievement. Please do not misunderstand me. All handicapped children require our attention, consideration and understanding. The impact' of profound congenital hearing loss on the processes of communication is difficult to overestimate, because language is the indispensable tool of learning which is acquired with very little effort by the hearing child but acquired in a minimal degree by the deaf child only after great effort and determination. It has been estimated that deafness is the most profound handicap a child may have. It is complex and expensive and calls for a range of educational and other efforts that are equally complex. Because of this it is necessary that anyone who has ' the responsibility or authority for establishing a programme for the deaf should be mindful of the complex problems involved and the educational facilities that they can provide. Deaf children in Australia have shared the treatment meted out to handicapped children generally. They have in times past been hidden behind the walls of . protective custody. We have preferred to think that they did not exist. We are now reaping the fruits of a long standing neglect. I trust and I am sure that society has now awakened to the position and will do much better in the future. 
The Commonwealth Department of Education and Science has in its files the recent Babbage report. This was . a report by a national advisory committee on the education of the deaf in the United States of America. Our Commonwealth Department also has the Alexander Graham Bell Association for the Deaf Committee report to the board of directors on the interim guidelines of educational progress for deaf chil dren. The answer to the basic question: What do we have to do to ensure adequate provision for our deaf children?' is, as I have stated, both complex and pervasive. However, some of the more central issues readily suggest themselves. Of prime importance is a programme of early attention to the deaf child. This includes early detection and parent guidance and a strong attack on a comprehensive pre-school programme of instruction in language and speech. Without such early attention it is doubtful whether a child who is born deaf will ever acquire his native language. Improved education of the deaf is unlikely without a new research effort. It is doubtful if even 1% of the cost of educating deaf children is spent on research. Improvements in the deplorably low academic achievement of the deaf will hardly come about without vigorous attention to teacher training. In some state schools for the deaf many teachers are not specially trained or equipped at all for this work. 
A very real contribution to the field of the handicapped could be made by the Commonwealth by setting up a national training college for teachers of handicapped children. Present State efforts in this field are limited and inadequate. Such a college could serve as a model for further training programmes. Because the deaf are already victimised on a changing occupational outlook attention to a secondary school programme for the deaf is essential. A satisfactory system for the education of the deaf requires the availability of many medical, audiological and psychological social services and other diagnostic services not ordinarily associated with education. Such services are, however, essential to the field of special education of which education of the deaf is but a part. There is urgent need to raise the level of hopes in the field of education of the deaf. We cannot continue to offer these children the crumbs and dregs and say in effect: 'This is good enough for you because you are deaf.' 
Deaf and dumb children are dumb merely because they cannot hear. Their vocal chords and their voices are as good as yours and mine. I suppose most people, as I did until a few years ago, look on the deaf with pity and sympathy, not realising that they have been rewarded by nature with a power of concentration to compensate for their affliction. I suppose most people thought, as I did: Well, they are deaf and dumb. We will do for them what we can in the way of a menial job. But when one comes into contact with such dedicated people as Brother McGrath and Miss Walters, of whom I have spoken in this House before, who are at the State school at North Rocks, one realises what can be clone for these children. In many cases they have a very high 1Q. At St Louis in the United States of America many children have been taught to speak and have attained secondary diplomas and 12 have gone on to tertiary education. When I see these children at North Rocks and at Castle Hill bubbling over with enthusiasm and brightness, I wish that we could have more people like Brother McGrath and Miss Walters who are specially trained to impart to these children the knowledge of how to use their vocal chords so that within a few short years they are able to speak as do you and I. 
I hope the time is coming when knowledge of. this system will be disseminated throughout Australia and these wonderful children with a high IQ will be able to take their places in society and render a service to the community. Unfortunately their potential ability is not able to be brought out at the present lime because they are unable to speak. I was sorry to hear the remark of the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  that this Government wanted to opt out. Of course we do not want to opt out. We are coming in in a big way and will do more and more as time goes on. Unfortunately the honourable member sarcastically referred to charities and charity workers, lt will be a sorry day for Australia, even an affluent Australia, when charity goes. Charity will always be a great blessing and a great attribute irrespective of the affluence of .our society. 

 Mr ARMITAGE (Chifley) 1 10.5 1]- I will nol speak at any great length tonight. I think most members know that there is a long night ahead. A lol has already been said about this Bill, but there are a few. aspects I should like to raise. I would like to make it clear for a start that the Opposition welcomes this Bill as far as it goes, lt is a Bill which will assist those organisations which in turn are assisting handicapped children by way of capital assistance for land and buildings and equipment. Of course this is only a part of the very great problem which has to be handled. The honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin)  referred to what the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  had said a few minutes ago. He mentioned that the honourable member for Robertson had said that the Government is opting out. The honourable member for Mitchell said that the Government is coming in in a big way. I say this in all sincerity: 1 think the Government is coming in. I would nol go so far as to say at this point of time that it is coming in in a big way because there is still so very much more to be done in this field. ' . . 
On the contrary, 1 believe that this Bill involves an issue which has been dealt wilhin this chamber so many times, which has' been dealt with in the Press and which has been dealt with by the various university, groups and the like. This is one of the most important sections of those who are disadvantaged in our community today.' These are the people who have to be assisted. I believe that this Bill is a hap-: hazard attempt to grip a social problem and to satisfy a social conscience, but it does not in fact satisfy that conscience. It is a hastily drawn up measure to satisfy a hastily conceived election promise. There, has been no research into the problem, lt is for this reason that, the Opposition has moved the following amendment to the Bill:- 
That all the words after 'that' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place' thereof: 'whilst not opposing the provisions of the" Bill, 
I want to make that clear -  the House is of opinion that a national inquiry should be conducted to identify the  nature  and extent of mental and physical handicaps in' children, as a basis to the Commonwealth establishing a national policy for handicappedchildren involving Commonwealth and SuiteGovernments, local authorities and private agencies in co-operative action'. 
That is why 1 say that the Bill is hastilyconceived. A committee of inquiry is needed to inquire into those aspects covered by the amendment besides very many other aspects such as research into the causes of handicapped children - there is so much' to learn yet on this - research into the treatment of handicapped children, research' into teaching methods for handicapped children and the best way to assist governments and organisations which are endeavouring to do a job in this field to assist those children. 
I can recollect first coming into this field and becoming interested in it many, many years ago when a couple who had a mongoloid child approached me. The child was 2 years of age and had not turned off its back. The father approached me to try to get the child into a State home to be looked after because at that point of time his total wage- was 13 10s a week, and he was spending 6 a week having that child looked after in a private home.  His  life savings of 400 were steadily being whittled away. I thought I could easily get that child into a home- how innocent I was- -where it would be looked after. I found that there were very few organisations - only charitable organisations - which could do the job. There was one State organisation where the child was finally admitted. Having had 5 attacks of pneumonia the child had a sixth attack and died within a fortnight. For that reason I became very vitally interested in this problem of handicapped children. 
I believe that the whole issue here is one of great human problem. Every parent who comes to me states: 'We have a responsibility. We have to look after these children. This is our child. We do not shirk that responsibility in our lifetime'. But they are all worried about that very important aspect of what will happen when they are no longer here. Some aspects of the Bill have to be looked into. It does not encourage Governments, State or Federal, to enter into this field as an entity themselves. It does assist or attempts to coerce private organisations to continue in the field and to expand their activities. But it does not have the same effect upon government instrumentalities, which should accept the responsibility for these children. It gives a certain amount of help. I congratulate the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  on the two-thirds assistance that the Government gives to private organisations for land and buildings, for special equipment and so on. But it still lays a responsibility on the parents or on . those people who are prepared, to volunteer to assist these children to raise, other finance. Quite frankly, we only have to look at the type of society we live in today. It is becoming increasingly difficult for the ordinary family - group to meet its responsibilities to those children who are not physically handicapped. Here they are being called upon to meet this colossal responsibility - this great liability of the child who is handicapped. 
I believe that there should be an inquiry, as I mentioned earlier. There are so many problems to be looked into. There is a necessity for assistance for training teachers and the payment of their salaries. I know that the States already assist in regard to the salaries, but the assistance only covers portion of what is required. . It does not fully cover the problem. These teachers are specialists and must be trained as such. There is a need for transport. I know that the States give assistance in this respect but still it does not cover the full problem. So many of these children need special vehicles to transport them to and from school. There is a need to alleviate this problem and to assist not only those children under 16 years of age but those over 16 years of age. Under State legislation the parents have to pay for the education, transport, etc., of a child in a school for handicapped children when that child is over 16 years of age. 
This raises the old issue of what happens when the parents are no longer with us. This is the greatest problem troubling the parents of handicapped children. There is always the thought in their minds: What is going to happen to our child when we are no longer here? 
Debate interrupted. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Primary Industry been drawn to the stated opposition of most overseas purchasers of wool to the etsablishment of a single wool marketing authority and the abolition of the auction system? ls he aware that experience has taught that interference with the free marketing and sale of primary products reacts against the producer?  is  it not desirable to do everything possible to attract buyers rather than discourage them? 
ls the Minister for Labour and National Service aware that because of the proposed alteration to the structure of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority and the reduced functions of that body many of the clerical staff fear that their positions are in jeopardy? Will he please tell the House just what the position is? Can he advise the House whether the work force of the stevedoring industry is decreasing? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. Has his attention been drawn to a statement by  Sir Walter  Merriman, the doyen of the wool industry, that the proposed wool authority would be a calamity if carried out? When a conundrum is not a conundrum, would it apply to a single wool marketing authority? 
Is the Minister for Primary Industry aware of the statement made by the Japanese Foreign Minister that Australia and New Zealand are both free and liberal countries and that, for that reason, the wool problem should be sorted out on a business basis? 
The Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act has caused much confusion over the years, and at this stage I want to pay tribute to the former honourable member for Maribyrnong, Colonel Stokes, for the great work and research that he put into this Act. I served on a committee with him for many years and I would say that he would be the one person who had a complete knowledge of the Act and the anomalies contained in it. That committee produced many foolscap pages listing the anomalies contained in the Act. I will go so far as to say that no private superannuation scheme would be allowed to exist if it contained such conditions. It is time that we had a full investigation of this matter. Although I cannot, support the amendment, because that would negate the Bill before the House and it gives some benefits to members of the Ser- vices, 1 will support an effort to have a ; select committee of this House - I do not include the other House because I main-  tain this is the House of management  and initiation - appointed to go very ; thoroughly into all the ramifications of this Act. 
Since I asked the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  a question in regard to retired Service personnel who had expected to receive their refund by the end of last year, 1 have had a few letters from people all over Australia stating that they had not as yet received ; their entitlement to the disbursement. We all  j  know that the servicemen have not a great amount of money, and those . who have &lt; retired would be looking forward to receiving this little extra to help them along, lt was expected, according to the. letters 1 have received, that retired personnel would have received their refund by 3 1st December of last year. Up to about a week ago they had not received this entitlement. But the serving officer is also entitled to a refund, atd it is a great pity that the administration cannot expedite matters so that these people will have the benefit of their entitlement. 
I said previously that many of the clauses contained in the original Act were anomalous. We as members of the Government Members Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Committee have been responsible for having many of the anomalies rectified, but many anomalies are still under consideration by the Treasury and the DFRB Board. 1 implore the Treasurer to get on with the business of eliminating these anomalies. I know of one serviceman who served for 19 years and 10 months and was boarded out of the Service. Had he served another 2 months he would have been entitled to his pension, but he was retired at 19 years and 10 months.  Of.  course, under this Act he did not become eligible for a pension. Some serving officers have not married during their Service life because of the upheaval of shifting home and the like. But if that man retired and then married, in the event of his death his widow would not become eligible for a pension. Fortunately that is one of the matters that we have had adjusted. ' 
I did not know that this Bill was coming before the House today. It is my own fault. 
I have spent the whole of the day after question time in committee. If I had had time I would have been able to refresh my memory and with the aid of what 1 learnt from  Colonel Stokes,  1 could have given the House the benefit of that experience and knowledge. Had the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  been able to let me know that he would speak for some time I would have gone to my office for some material. I would then have been able to enlighten honourable members on many aspects of this Act. I have not studied it for 6 or 7 months, but I have papers which were left by  Colonel Stokes,  and they would make very enlightening reading, for honourable members. 1 must vote for the Bill, but I would like later to see a select committee of this House set up - not a joint committee because this is the House of management and the House of initiative, and I want to keep it here. I should be pleased to serve on any select committee set up to investigate this matter. 
I have received many, letters from various parts of Australia, as well as one from New Zealand, congratulating me on the strong protest which 1 have been making against the injustice of foisting the proposed wool marketing authority on the producers. These letters form the basis of what I am going to say. I have even received a letter from  Sir Ewen  Waterman, who is present in the gallery. At a later stage I shall refer to a copy of a speech which he made in Paris. The Bill which is before the House has 3 specific purposes. An extra $30m is to be allocated to research. The structure of the Australian Wool Board is to be altered. The Bill will also provide funds for renovating some of the 280 buildings which are owned by the Wool- Board. I shall endeavour to get through my speech as quickly as possible. I repeat that my remarks have been compiled from the letters which I have received from famous names in the wool industry, including some big producers. 
The economic problems of the wool growing industry are multilateral and no simple solution to them is possible. A multi-pronged attack is needed in which all problem areas are involved and in which the Government, wool growers and the wool trade generally collaborate in an adaptive relationship to ensure the long term effectiveness of the industry. The adaptive approach seeks the means for adjustment to economic reality by the introduction of policies which would promote reorganisation with the least hurtful impact on persons or property. 
Positive proposals for the beneficial restructuring of the wool growing industry will be possible only when all available research capabilities are harnessed to the task of preparing a complete basis from which conclusions and policies can be confidently drawn. The research work done by the Committee for the Economic Development of Australia, though comprehensive, has revealed substantial gaps. Research is at present dispersed and uncoordinated. Funds for research work seem not to be related to priorities nor directed to the most urgent problems. At a time of dynamic growth in the economy generally the wool grower has been caught in  a vice-like squeeze of falling prices and inflating costs.- Solutions to his problems will not be found by chance. Temporising, or working by hunch, wIll aggravate the imbalance. The expedients of price subsidies, which are merely temporary palliatives, inevitably defeat themselves and divert research and action from the fundamental issues. 
Australia's rural industries are now sharing the experience of their counterparts in other countries with developed and powerful industrial complexes. Price support schemes have been proved inappropriate as the means for maintaining a balance between the primary and secondary sectors. In the United Kingdom, United States of America, and Europe rural policy has followed the protectionist line. The history of farm policy in these countries is evidence of the inadequacy of this approach. Protective measures do nothing to assist, and in the longer term retard the adjustments which would permit those remaining in rural industry to approximate returns on resources, labour and capital earned in the economy generally. The experience of others should not be discounted when considering the present problems of Australia's wool growers. 
CEDA, in its policy statement on the wool industry, has urged Government and the industry to recognise the real causes of current problems, and the justification for structural changes implicit in them. Treating the symptoms instead of diagnosing the disease will deny opportunities for policy formation in the interests of the wool industry and the economy in general. For these reasons CEDA has proposed that the Federal Government should take the initiative in establishing a standing advisory committee on the wool industry. This committee would assume responsibility for the direction of production and economic research; co-ordinate research into the practical and economical problems of the industry; arrange for particular research projects to be undertaken; and evaluate research findings. In these responsibilities the standing advisory committee would utilise all existing research capabilities and would collaborate with wool grower organisations. The standing advisory committee would advise the Federal Government of its findings and assist in the formulation of future plans for the industry. CEDA considers that well based, long term policies for the wool growing industry cannot be established unless these research processes are instituted. 
Re-structuring of the wool growing industry does not mean simply the creating of larger units of production. All factors which may influence the economic production of good quality wool must be critically reviewed, both those over which the grower exercises no control and those which relate to the growers' management. Among those factors requiring review and outside the direct influence of the grower, CEDA has included the following: rationalisation of transport costs and taxes to reduce external cost pressures; reduction of the disruptive impact of death duties to prevent the breakup of properties of efficient size; and amendment of State land laws to permit ready sale and transfer of land by the elimination of restrictive land titles. CEDA is proposing that the barriers to structural change be removed and that the processes of adjustment be promoted by a greater emphasis on applied economic research; more effective extension work and industry education; measures to speed up mobility into and out of the industry, with part of the adjustment costs to be borne by the Government; selective taxation incentives; and long term project loans. CEDA emphasises also that growers can contribute directly to the continuing effectiveness of the wool industry by adopting modern management techniques and improved methods of sheep husbandry. 
A restructuring plan would take time for effective implementation, but action could be initiated immediately in some of the areas nominated by CEDA. Any immediate action on specific aspects should be consistent with a longer term policy for the industry in which uneconomic units of production would be merged into sound practical and economic aggregations. CEDA considers that immediate steps should be initiated to lift the industry from its state of despondency and to encourage active participation in the adaptive approach to problems. The question to be resolved is what action is necessary and equitable to ensure that the profit margin in the production of good quality wool, assuming competent management, will be adequate to attract investment to the wool growing industry. The answers will be found in complete and independent research, in consequential policy formation and in education.  Sir Ewen  Waterman, in an address to the International Wool Textile Organisation in Paris, said: 
What kind of wool will be grown? Growers are seeking guidance on this most critical point. We are encouraging the production of the best possible quality wool in all types presently grown and we are seeking to improve standards of .preparation - but we look for guidance (on types needed) to the joint efforts of IWTO and IWS in forecasting shifts in demand. Some coarsening of the Australian clip has been noted in recent years, at the same time that demand for the finer types has emerged. Wool growers need expert confirmation of trends in demand before committing themselves to substantial change in both feeding and breeding policies. 
What is wool's future? Wool can survive as a textile fibre of importance provided the consumer cap, through the price structure, influence the types that are grown. New methods can be developed and implemented to enable the thinking wool grower to survive in an affluent society. This does not mean that all wool growers will survive nor does it mean that the types of wool produced in Australia at present will continue in use. For example, at the moment wools containing over about 5% vegetable 011 are at a considerable discount. Unless there is a major change in the supply and demand situation this discount is more likely to increase than decrease. This is because labour is needed to process these wools and the cost of labour in all industrialised countries is rising faster than in other countries. Japan has experienced one of the fastest rates, 17% per annum. 
by leave- I want to congratulate the  Chairman  of the Select Committee on Aircraft Noise, the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Buchanan).  Each member of the Committee realises the amount of time that he has put into this inquiry so that he could present this interim report at this time. I think other members of the Committee' would like me also to express our appreciation to  Mr Bruce  Chapman,  Mr Ken  Hale and  Mr Jack  Rose of the Commonwealth Acoustic Laboratories, all of whom rendered great service to the Committee. 
The manufacturers of aircraft engines are doing a worthwhile job in endeavouring to reduce the noise of engines but the modifications required are very costly. The cost amounts to some hundreds of thousands of dollars. But worse still, each modification reduces the efficiency of the engine and increases the running cost. This is a very difficult problem that has to be overcome. 
The Committee as previously constituted did an excellent job and produced an interim report. There has been a happy and worthwhile association between the members of this Committee. Individually they have spent a great deal of time and have put a great deal of effort into bringing this report before the Parliament. There are many suggestions. There is a disposition now to realise that aircraft noise is a nuisance and the various factors within the industry are endeavouring to overcome or to alleviate the noise nuisance. Efforts in this regard will be continued in the future. There is an awareness of the problem. lt is peculiar to think that a man will build on a river bank to be close to water. We could establish an international airport in a wilderness and within 12 months thousands of people would he residing nearby, lt would appear that the days of using a small area for an international airport are gone and that the minimum area for an international airport will be 20,000 acres to 25,000 acres. In other countries an area of 50,000 acres is being considered. 1 again commend all who were associated with this report for their loyalty and the amount of work that they put into it. 
-! rise to speak for myself and the Government Members ExServicemen's Committee of which  Sir Wilfrid  was the  Chairman. Sir Wilfrid  rose above the trivialities and pettiness of life and lived on a higher plane than most, but always for the betterment of his fellow Australians. He was a man of the highest integrity whose life was spent, in the main, in the defence of Australia both as a soldier and as a parliamentarian. He was an authority on South East Asia and the southern regions of Africa. We are better men for having been associated with him. Despite his greatness in so many fields, his humility was one of his outstanding characteristics. We mourn his passing. We revere his memory. We thank God for his life and example. 
I rise to oppose the proposal put forward by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  because it is totally unnecessary. The Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin)  has already taken the matter up with the States. The housing Commissions in the various States have done a very good job. They have built a home of good standard which is rented at a minimal price. These homes are sold to low wage earners on very reasonable terms. I think that the discussions which are taking place between the Commonwealth Minister for Housing and the State Ministers for Housing will reveal that the people who need urgent assistance, who need to be given preference in obtaining homes, are those in the low wage bracket and with large families. The numbers of people waiting to rent housing commission homes in New South Wales has been reduced considerably, but I would like to see it reduced further as quickly as possible. 
If we consider the improvement in home construction and the amenities that have been provided in homes over the last 7 years we will find that the cost dollar for dollar of building a home has not increased to the same extent as has the price of land. Why has the price of land increased to the extent that it has? It has increased because of the so-called planning that has taken place. The present prices obtained for land are fictitious. They have been brought about by an unrealistic approach to the problem. I speak only in regard to New South Wales. I think that the increase in the price of land in New South Wales has been brought about by zoning. Latterly a person subdividing property has had many impositions placed upon him. He has had to supply reticulated water and also make improvements such as footpaths. 
This is all right to a point, but naturally the developer passes the cost of providing these services on to the purchaser who in turn is not relieved by the payment of lower rates to the water and sewerage board or to the council. Despite the fact that all these amenities are provided by the developer and paid for in turn by the purchaser, the purchaser still has to pay the same rates as do people in the more exclusive areas who have had all their amenities provided by the public utility. This is not fair to our young, low wage people. A young couple in New South Wales who have the opportunity of renting in the first instance a Housing Commission home may buy it on exceptional terms. They may purchase it for a deposit of $100. Of course, in addition they have to pay State stamp duty and legal costs. I have been told that they would require $300 to $350 to start off on the purchase of their home. This is a very wonderful opportunity for young married people and people on a low wage. The interest paid for a loan or a Housing Commission house is something in excess of 6%. The Commonwealth charges the States 6% for the money that is provided under this scheme. 
The Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement is to come up for review in 1971. I am the  chairman  of the Government Members Housing Committee and it has already had discussions about the Agreement. I think the emphasis from now on will have to be to ensure that the low wage earner - especially the low wage earner with a family - and the young married couple will be given the precedence to enable him to purchase his own home. It would appear that more money should be directed into this field. It would appear that the middle bracket and higher bracket of wage earners have the resources available to borrow money and to erect their own homes. It would appear that because of the percentage of young married couples and the low age of a great number of our citizens the emphasis as regards need has passed now to the low wage earner and the young married couple. We will view this position in association with the States, which are very close to the scene and are better able to judge than we are. We are able to get more direct evidence from State officials because they are in daily touch with the people requiring homes. I think it would be preferable to act in this way than to do what the Opposition has suggested. 
Honourable members may be interested to know that 80% of all married pensioners own their homes. So the position has not been as bad as that depicted by the Leader of the Opposition and the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren).  I believe that in New South Wales we have to get rid of the zoning method, by which rural land can be bought very cheaply. Immediately the land is zoned as residential, human nature being as it is, the price goes up. Planning is always necessary, but the implementation of planning in New South Wales is wholly responsible for the high price and the increase in the price of land in New South Wales. 
1 ask the Minister for Labour and National Service whether his attention has been drawn to the part the Leader of the Opposition played in cahoots with  Mr Hawke  in bringing about the disruption of industry today? Did the Leader of the Opposition announce the. stoppages at 1 p.m. whereas the Australian Council of Trade Unions made its decision at 4 p.m. on the same day? Is not his action political cowardice? 
Did the Minister for Social Services recently receive a deputation from certain south coast unionists? Did the Secretary of the South Coast Trades and Labour Council claim that this was the direct result of last Tuesday's stoppage? Was this claim true? 
I rise more in sorrow than in anger, more in disappointment than in happiness, when I see the decay of a once great Australian Labor Party. I recall the names of the great Labor politicians of the past. Although I always differed with them politically I was pleased to call them my friends and I think they reciprocated. I still have many real friends in the Opposition. One has to admire the honesty, sincerity and integrity of these great men of the old Labor Party. They were known as the grass roots of the Labor Party - now a diminishing race. In my 7 years here I have seen them squeezed out. I refer to such men as Ted Peters. I well remember when the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  in a congratulatory farewell speech to Ted Peters referred to him as one of the grass roots and I well remember the snigger on some of the faces of honourable members opposite. But Ted Peters made a worthwhile contribution whilst he was here. The right honourable Arthur Calwell can claim to be one of that band, the grass roots of the Labor Party. We have seen other honourable members opposite - the honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Luchetti)  and the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Webb)  - relegated to the back benches. Other esteemed honourable members now sitting on the front bench who have rendered great and loyal service to the Labor Party well know that their days are numbered. Truly the grass roots members of the Labor Party are being rooted out. 
It is only a matter of time before the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  - of course, still in Opposition - will sit in the front of a team of academics and, on his own statement in yesterday's 'Daily Telegraph', with some people with queer ideas on sex.  His  recent statements on abortion and homosexuality have branded him for what he is. There has not been a single member of this House since Federation who has committed so many dishonourable acts right in this House. Yet he tried to fit on the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  the charge that he once used physical force against another member of the Senate during the time the Prime Minister was a member of that place. But the Leader of the Opposition committed an act of physical force against a Minister sitting at the table in this chamber. Honourable members who were in the House on that occasion saw him pick up a glass of water and with deliberation throw it right in the face of the Minister. Yet the Leader of the Opposition will come in and speak about people using force and degrading Parliament. 
Some honourable members will remember the time he fired an insult at the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess).  He sneered because the honourable member did not have a university degree. The late member for the Australian Capital Territory,  Mr Jim  Fraser, and 4 other honourable members walked out of the chamber in disgust. The Leader of the Opposition telephoned the then member for the Australian Capital Territory and said: '1 did not mean any reference to you*. Jim Fraser, great man that he was, said: 'But I did not go to any university, and I have rendered good service in Parliament*. The Leader of the Opposition said: Ah, but the father of the honourable member for La Trobe was a major-general and could afford it'. Of course he was a major-general. He was one of the greatest men in the 1st Australian Imperial Force. He was a great front line soldier, a great administrator; he worked for half pay during the economic depression. He died worth the princely sum of 1,200, and a great and generous country gave his widow the age pension. Yet this Leader of the Opposition would throw a smear at the honourable member for La Trobe. We saw honourable members on the other side who took exception to such behaviour and walked out of this chamber. It is to the everlasting disgrace of the Leader of the Opposition that he should have done what he did. He has now sealed his fate. 
Anybody who would make the statement that the Leader of the Opposition made in Brisbane at the weekend about homosex uality and abortion is not fu to be the Leader of the Opposition in this House. Indeed, anybody who condones homosexuality and assists homosexuals, realising what he is doing, is doing a great disservice to this country. I am pleased to note those honourable members opposite who are now laughing because they do not realise the seriousness of the matter about which I am speaking. If they did they would know that almost any adolescent can be led into acts of homosexuality. This is what psychologists and psychiatrists tell us. Yet the Leader of the Opposition would make it easier for homosexuals to attract young people into this most abominable, wretched and filthy state. 
Honourable members opposite may laugh but let them beware that this problem does not come home to their own doors. They should realise what I have said to them tonight, that psychologists tells us that almost any adolescent can be attracted into committing these horrible acts. Gaol is not the place for these unfortunate people. They require all the compassion and understanding that we can give them. Parliament House is not the place for them either. Those honourable members opposite who are laughing might do well to remember the effort by the Leader of the Opposition to mimic the strong, manly voice of the Treasurer  (Mr Bury).  He could do it for only a little while before going back to a squeaky voice. 
As I said when I started my address, I rose to speak tonight more in sorrow than in anger. 1 am terribly sorry to see that the men who have rendered great service to the Labor Party have only a few short years in which to retain their seats because with the effluxion of time they will be wiped out. As 1 said before, we will see a team of academics behind the Leader of the Opposition and that, of course, will be the end of the Labor Party. 
Is the Attorney-General aware that the Wheat Industry Stabilisation 
Act 1968 is vulnerable to challenge under section 51 (xxxi) and sections 92 and 96 of the Constitution? Is he also aware that no provision is made for acquisition on just terms? Will he assure the House that it is legally possible to define 'just terms' in any legislation, especially in regard to a wool marketing authority with powers of acquisition? 
Has the attention of the Postmaster-General been drawn to the fact that the Leader of the Opposition at an estimated cost of $2,600 sent a letter to each person enrolled in the electorate of Chisholm? Is this a charge against the taxpayer? 
Is the Postmaster-General aware of the details of a lease between the Australian Broadcasting Commission and the Australian Mutual Provident Society for office space in Melbourne, presumably for the housing of ABC staff? On what date did the lease become effective? Why have the premises remained unoccupied for such a long period? Are the premises now occupied? Will the Minister inform the House of the total cost of the lease? Can he confirm the loss to the ABC to be over $100,000? 
Social services extend far beyond the ambit of the Department of Social Services and intrude into the realms of taxation, health, education, housing and transport. So in dealing with social services one has to accept and present an expanded spectrum of the whole field. At the inception of the scheme of pensions for the aged and the infirm the concept was to give aid supplementary to that given by the families of aged people. There are still people within the community who view social services from this narrow and outmoded concept. The idea that there is an element of charity in receiving a pension has long been dispelled. When the Commonwealth was given power to enter the field of social services it will be remembered that there was a social service tax assessment implemented over and above the income tax. But later, because of constitutional reasons, this method was abandoned and the social service tax was included in the general tax assessment. It will be seen therefore that people now drawing pensions are simply getting their entitlements by way of an insurance that they paid for through taxation during their working life. Some people in the community still complain that the improvident are well cared for. I would remind such people that the improvident have, by way of excise duty, sales tax and income tax, contributed a fair share of the revenue of the Treasury. 
However, be that as it may, the Government's approach to this matter is that irrespective of how foolish or how improvident people are or whether their present position is the result of misfortune or due to any other reason, there is a base below which we will not allow any person in this community to live. At the same time there is no height to which we will prevent a person ascending provided he conforms to the laws of the land, acts honestly and pays his taxes. However, my aim and desire is to give the maximum benefit to all pensioners. I regret that age pensions were not increased by more than 50c. There was a move some few years ago to increase the pension in line with increases in consumer prices. Paradoxically, had that system been agreed to pensioners would have been some dollars a week worse off for quite a long period. That is not now the position and any increase in consumer prices will militate against the purchasing power of the pension paid. I trust that the Government will be vigilant in this matter and, if there is an upgrading of consumer prices, introduce a supplementary budget to meet the situation. With full employment and with inflation running at 3 per cent to 4 per cent a year our concern should now be for the low wage earner, especially the low wage earner with a family of 3 or 4 children. These families are importuned and handicapped to an extent not fully understood and appreciated by the community. It is therefore the Government's responsibility to protect these people to the utmost. In the case of a married couple without children or with children able to look after themselves or with a relative nearby to assist the children and look after them on their return from school the wife can accept employment and thus supplement the family income, but the low wage earner with a wife and children is not in this position and thus is worse off than his neighbour whose wife has been able to supplement the family income. 
I think that with co-ordination and organisation their position can be improved. Women are urgently needed in the work force. With this thought in mind I have written to the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden)  about church halls that have been erected in the fast growing areas of the capital cities and the larger cities of Australia. My letter reads as follows: 
It appears that church halls offer a good venue and opportunity of setting up pre-school kindergartens and/or minding centres for children. The churches have erected halls in the fast growing areas of the community where predominantly young married people reside. The halls are advantageously erected so that children could either be collected or left at the school by the parents before proceeding to places of employment. 
In the congregations of most churches there will be ex-teachers, ex-nursing sisters and people qualified to care for, mind and look after the children. Industry is in urgent need of these young women in the work force. The extra earnings would assist the young marrieds to get over the difficult period of establishing themselves in their own homes. Further, it may be a source of revenue for the churches although the nonrating of places of worship may present some difficulty. Further, it would bring the young children into closer association with the church and should be beneficial to their character and physical development. 
I know that this in the main comes within the confines of the States. . . . 
I think where buildings have been erected at a substantial capital cost and are being used infrequently that such a scheme would aid these people and the community to a great extent. Managements of industries within my electorate have told me that during certain parts of the year, especially when holidays occur, there is a lot of absenteeism due to parents having to remain at home to look after their children. The children of the low wage earner should have the same opportunities as all others have and it should be the aim of the Government to give the parents the opportunity to bring up their children with dignity and honour. I think the scheme I have just outlined will do this. At the same time it will improve and add to the work force and thus increase the productivity of the various industries within the area. The position of industries within my area is now improving and there will be job vacancies in the factories now being erected. This means women will be able to be absorbed within the local work force without having to leave and travel long distances by train to gain employment as they had to do in the immediate past. 
I have spoken to the Minister for Social Services about co-ordinating all the benefits that are now available through Commonwealth and State social service offices. I know it is a difficult and complex problem and that entitlements vary from State to State. However, if benefits can be coordinated many people in indigent and difficult circumstances will find that they are not availing themselves of many avenues of assistance that are open to them. I have been able to assist people in this respect. It would be to the advantage of people if they interviewed social service officers rather than listen to chatter and gossip. I invite any person so placed in my area to see my secretary who is well versed in these matters. I can assure them that if they are entitled to any services or allowances we will see that they get them. 
I now want to pay a tribute to officers in the Commonwealth and State who administer social services, for their efficiency and courtesy. I know it is unwise to mention names but without detracting from any other officer I would like to pay a special tribute to  Mr Willmott  of the Department of Social Services in Sydney. 
I think I have heard you pass complimentary remarks in the past about this gentleman. I am disappointed that you called out ..-----, because you have referred to him on many occasions and spoken very highly of him. It little becomes the honourable member now to interject in that way. I said earlier that social services extended into many areas of government. 1 think a study in depth should be made of assistance to those most in need. It may be that the taxation deductions allowed for children could be dispensed with. After all, the net monetary gain for the low wage earner is not substantial. In its place a family allowance should be implemented. There is something worthwhile that the honourable member could have supported by interjection or applauded. 
Over the 21 years that this Government has been in office many and varied extra allowances and fringe benefits have been granted to those in need. I again reiterate that many people are entitled to allowances, but have not made a claim or have missed out. 1 appeal to them to see social service officers or if they are in my area to see my secretary and we will be able to do something for them. The honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  when he was speaking tried to compare the relationship of the pension to the average weekly wage now with that in 1949. Comparisons are odious at all times but in this instance they are more odious than usual, lt is so stupid to draw comparisons. The honourable member drew a comparison between the average weekly , wage in 1949 and the average weekly wage now. But wages in 1949 were controlled. At that time there had been a great deal of unemployment. To endeavour to compare an average weekly wage at a time of full employment with a high wage ratio to the average wage that applied in 1949 is out of all realism and commonsense. 
The honourable member for Chifley also spoke about civilian widows. So long as I am in this House a war widow will be treated with the greatest respect and consideration. Anybody who tries to take away her pension or tries to equalise the pension paid to a war widow with that paid to someone else is not doing the right thing. A war widow's husband was killed in the service of his country. If a civilian widow's husband is killed at work she received workers' compensation. But the woman whose husband is killed at war does not get compensation and we make up to her by way of the pension we pay. If a civilian widow's husband is killed in a motor car accident she is compensated by third party insurance. Let us balance these things out and put them in the right perspective, lt is a very peculiar state of affairs for anyone to state that a widow and a child of a man who loses his life in the service of his country are not entitled to what we are giving them. I have outlined how the civilian widow receives compensation if her husband is killed either in an accident at work or in a motor car accident. I believe the war widow is entitled to what she receives. 
Does anyone in this House have the temerity to get up and say that, apart from the anomalies that occur, we have not done the right thing in regard to the means test? I would like to draw the attention of the House to the case of a married couple with an income of $72 per week. Let us be honest and sincere. A married couple with an income of $72 under the means test would attract a pension, although it may be meagre. With this in mind, surely we have gone a fair distance in the alleviation of the means test. Anomalies do exist. They require adjustment. They will be adjusted. But if the means test was abolished - and honourable members opposite during the debate have spoken about doing this - this would mean that we would deprive those who are in need of their just entitlements. As long as I have any influence in this House- 
I have much more than Luna Park, as some of his friends call the honourable member for Chifley. Others call him Bobo. I have much more influence in this House than he has. It is only right that the people should know some of the benefits which they are justly entitled to receive. I wish to quote some of the fringe benefits that are provided for in the Social Services Bill (No. 2) 1970. For instance: 
To continue my quotation: 
There are at present  23,000  wives' allowances being paid. : md the estimated cost for  1970-71  is  $8.2m. 
The point thatI am making is that when a Labor government was in office it never gave people in this class anything at all. I say that to honourable members opposite who are interjecting. I return to my quotation. It continues: 
Guardian's allowance: An allowance of  $4  per week is paid to single and widowed pensioners where there is a child under  16  or a student child between  16  and  21.  Where the child is under  6  years of age, or an invalid, this is increased to  $6  per week. There are at present  4,150  allowances paid, the estimated cost for  1970-71  being  $962,000. 
Additional pension for children: Pensioners receive an extra  $2.50  per week for the first child under  16  (or between  16  and  21  if a student) in the family, and an extra  $3.50  for each subsequent such child. At present these allowances are being paid for  35,700  children at an estimated cost for  1970-71  of $5.6m. 
These are the fringe benefits which we never hear the Opposition extol or acclaim. These benefits are of great importance to the persons concerned. 
Another important factor in our social services legislation is the Pensioner Medical Service. Its benefits come under 3 headings. These are: 
Medical benefits 
Hospital benefits 
Pharmaceutical benefits 
These benefits amount to quite an astronomical sum. 
When the spokesman for  Her  Majesty's Opposition rises and moves an amendment to a Bill such as this we see that the Opposition is living in a world of fantasy and imagination. It can offer anything. I want to impress this fact on the pensioners and others who are receiving social service benefits: Whatever this Government promises them, they will get. They always have this guarantee from this Government. What the Opposition offers is based on fantasy and imagination only. The Opposition offers advantages which would cost astronomical sums. It offers promises which it has no possible chance ever of being able to be carried out. I am always intrigued by the tactics adopted by the Opposition when a Bill of this type is before the Parliament. Its members are not game to rise and to oppose it. The opening words of the amendment moved by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  intrigue me - and this type of wording always does. The amendment opens with the words: 
Whilst not opposing the provisions of this Hill, this Mouse is of the opinion- 
Opposition members have not the fortitude or the integrity to challenge the provisions of this Bill. They know that the Government is doing the best that it can in all the circumstances. As good as the provisions of this Bill are, most honourable members on this side of the House would like to see the Government do more for age pensioners and for those people who are in a position much worse than the situation of the majority of the people of Australia. 
I wish to pay a tribute to the wonderful work force that we have in Australia. Our work force totals approximately 5 million people of whom 1 million are public servants. Australia has approximately 1 million age and invalid pensioners. We have between 80,000 and 90,000 mentally retared and physically disabled children. Mental hospitals cater for a large number of mentally deranged persons. A work force of 4 million - that is, in private industry - supplies most of the money to meet the needs of these people. We are proud of our social service activities. We are proud of our Minister for Social Services. Our pride will be even greater when, in the fullness of time, the Government will be able to fulfil the promise made by the Prime Minister to look after those most in need. 
Like the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King)  I was not aware that this Bill was coming before the House today. I applaud the Government for the increases it has provided but like all ex-servicemen I would like to have seen the pensions increased still further. We had a conference with the ex-servicemen's association which made certain suggestions in regard to the special services rate. We have gone partly towards meeting their requirements. The special services rate, the rate for a totally and permanently incapacitated ex-serviceman, is now $38. Taking into consideration the wife's allowance of some $4 and the children's allowance of $1.38 we do get somewhere near the former basic wage. But be that as it may, it still leaves the single ex-serviceman a little more worse off than the single age pensioner for whom we have made some allowance. Perhaps we should consider this matter in the future. There are other increases that are gratifying to see but again they are not as great as we would like them to have been. But nevertheless it does something to relieve the situation for the time being. 
There has been an increase in the special compensation allowance of $6 for those whose incapacity is assessed at 100 per cent. This allowance decreases proportionately with the decrease in incapacity. It is satisfying to me to know that the temporarily totally incapacitated ex-serviceman who is incapacitated for a short period is now recognised and will receive a payment based on the TPI rate. This is good. I notice that this Bill also provides for increased rates of pension for war-blinded ex-servicemen, ex-servicemen receiving TTI and tuberculosis pensions, and the certain double amputees. Therefore, by and large there has been some improvement in repatriation benefits. Although 1 do not agree with the amendment proposed by the Opposition I will make sure that, as Secretary of the Government Members Ex-Servicemen's Committee, we consider all the proposals that have been put forward and where practicable try to meet the suggestions that have been made. 
The stage has been reached where not a great number of ex-servicemen from the Boer War and the First World War are being catered for. I think that the number of ex-servicemen from those 2 wars receiving pensions has been reduced to 11,000. Of. course, not all of these 11,000 exservicemen would want to avail themselves of hospitalisation. Almost all ex-servicemen who become ill in their last years have a great desire to receive treatment in a military hospital. This is something that is emotional. Some of our greatest soldiers of high rank have asked that they be allowed to be in-patients of Service hospitals. Notwithstanding the cost of accommodating ex-servicemen in these hospitals I believe that the Government should consider the request that has been made and if possible accede to it. 
I believe that the legislation relating to pharmaceutical benefits requires some amendment. I trust that the Government will consider this when a review is made next year of pensions and the attendant medical and pharmaceutical benefits. I also mention the funeral  grant.  Ibelieve that this grant is quite inadequate under present conditions. This is another matter that requires further consideration. I am sure that the Government will endeavour to meet the request of the ex-servicemen's associations in this respect. Instead of a general inquiry I think that the Government members ex-servicemen's committee could receive representatives of exservicemen, delve into these matters, and then put the details before the Cabinet. I find that outside inquiries are very costly and very long drawn out. I think it would be to the advantage of the ex-servicemen if we could meet their representatives and go into all the facets of repatriation benefits, medical care and hospitalisation and endeavour to get the funeral allowance increased. 1 want to state again how pleased I am with the way that the present Minister for Repatriation is tackling his job and with the sympathetic and compassionate way in which he deals with all matters that we as members of Parliament bring before him. Only this week a man came to me because there was some doubt about whether he was entitled to go into the repatriation hospital in Sydney. I spoke to the Minister at 10 o'clock in the morning on the day in question and by 5 o'clock the man had been transferred from a civilian hospital to the Concord Repatriation Hospital. This man felt that he had served his country and he wanted to go to the repatriation hospital. Perhaps he did not fulfil] all the requirements to qualify for admission but he had served his country. I am pleased to state that he was admitted to the Concord hospital. 
The administration of the Repatriation Act is very wonderful. Although at times we may be disappointed by some of the decisions on war pensions given by the tribunals because they are not in favour of the ex-servicemen we are given some encouragement because we are told that these men have the right of appeal. I have found that the officers of the Department are most helpful in the advice that they tender and that they assist the men to get justice. As the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Byrant)  stated, we get many cases in which it is difficult to prove war-caused disability. 
This  applies especially  to those excellent soldiers who in the First World War got a whiff of gas and carried on. It has been difficult for them to establish that their bronchial ailments came about because they were slightly gassed. I have had 2 or 3 experiences of having asked their relatives to go through all the letters and documents they had during the First World War. A pay book that was discovered by 1 man had the very well defined signature of Lieutenant 
W. Smith. For 13th July 1917 it contained the entry: 'Slightly gassed, continued on duty'. This man had suffered for 20 years with a bronchial complaint and because of the evidence in his pay book we were able to establish that his condition was due to war service. He was immediately granted a TPI pension. The point I make is that he should have been given it 18 or 20 years earlier. 
I think that the time has come when the onus of proof should be on the Commonwealth, especially in regard to claims by those who served in the First World War. It is practically impossible for those men to obtain evidence now. Most of their mates have passed on and it is difficult to locate those who are alive. In fairness to the tribunals, I must say that they endeavour to arrive at a just decision. I have spoken to an ex-chairman of a tribunal. He is a man of great integrity and he assured me that on all occasions the benefit of the doubt was given to the exserviceman. The Government has gone a certain way towards meeting the improvements suggested by the Returned Services League of Australia. However, I think all aspects of repatriation require a fuller investigation. To sift through all the material will take a long time. I appeal to the Government to give consideration to the plight of the 11,000-odd veterans of the First World War. They are in the evening of their lives. Should they become ill through any cause whatsoever - whether a war cause or not - they should be admitted to a repatriation hospital. I thank the Government for the increases that it has granted, especially in the total temporary incapacity pension. I trust that when similar legislation is being considered next year the Government will have gone much further towards meeting the improvements suggested by the RSL. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. I preface the question by saying that the price of wool in the last few days has dropped by 3 per cent on good wool and by 10 per cent on inferior wools. I am informed that this drop is partially attributable to a rumour. I ask the Prime Minister: Is there any basis for the rumour being spread in Europe and among wool buyers in Australia that the Government is considering suspending wool sales for a month? Why have  Sir William  Gunn and  Mr Vines  not repudiated these rumours? Are the operations of the price averaging plan contributing to the downward pressure on wool prices by stimulating a further rumour that as a result of these PAP operations stockpiling is taking place in Australia? Are the rumours being given substance by the threat of a single wool marketing authority which also raises the possibility of stockpiling? Will the Prime Minister make a statement that will remove these fears and give the wool market some prospect of recovery? 
-I was thwarted yesterday in making my speech on the estimates for the Department of Civil Aviation, but as we have recently celebrated Air Force Week I felt that it was incumbent upon me to say what 1 intended to say yesterday. The Department of Civil Aviation, though comparatively young, is one of the most exhilarating and exciting departments within the ambit of government. While it is spectacular and exciting it calls for caution and restraint. It must at all time make its prime concern that of safety and to a lesser extent the comfort of airline passengers. Australia is ideally suited for flying, with long distances between towns, good weather and good atmospheric conditions. With the initiative of the Department, corporations, associations and individuals, flying in all phases is a dynamic and vital component of our means of communication, trade and commerce and transport, perhaps more so than in any other nation in the world. 
Being one of the pioneers of aviation in Australia, naturally I am proud of the importance it now plays. I was the founder and first President of the Newcastle Aero Club which, for a period, was the largest aero club in the world. This industry was brought to its present position because of necessity and the great Australian characteristics of confidence and self-assuredness. We now rank third in the world for the number of domestic passengers, ninth for international passengers and sixth for the total number of passengers carried yearly. From its humble beginnings 50 years ago the Department of Civil Aviation has become a huge, complex undertaking employing about 9,000 people stationed in Australia, its Territories, America and England. 
Civil aviation in New Guinea, Norfolk 
Island andCocos  Island is under the control of the Department of Civil Aviation. Its assets are valued in excess of $320m. In 5 years $140m was spent on our airports. The Department is now embarking on another 5-year plan of strengthening and improving the present airports and providing new airports. As aircraft design emboldens so does the development of the sciences which form an integral part of the industry, such as radar, meteorology, medicine and technological aids for landing. 
Airports attract a huge mass of moving people who become patrons of businesses within their confines which employ thousands of people. I think it wise that facts in regard to civil aviation should be explained. Of a population of only 12 million people our international and domestic airlines carry 7 million passengers a year. This number is increasing. By 1980 it is estimated that these lines will carry 16 million passengers a year. 
General aviation, which includes privately owned, charter, aero club, crop dusting and aerial survey flying, is increasing more rapidly than the domestic and international airlines. Over 1,100,000 hours a year are flown by these people. Let us look to the future. What a challenge there is to the Department of Civil Aviation in the trends to construct larger and heavier aircraft carrying more and more passengers with less time in the air. This cannot be achieved unless the safety and comfort of the passengers is the prior, essential and paramount component. Better forecasting, improved radar, revised air traffic control procedures and the most modern, up to date landing system devices are necessary. Because of the speed of supersonic aircraft and the critical effects of varying temperatures, atmospheric and weather condition forecasts will have to be speedily obtained to be extremely accurate to avoid turbulence and heavy rain and hail storms. 
Not only is the Department of Civil Aviation responsible for the aircraft while it is flying but it has to deal with the hundreds of problems which accrue when the aircraft has landed. Hundreds of passengers disembarking could cause confusion, but with modern airports such as the Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport and the Tullamarine Airport in Melbourne and with the airports in other capital cities and larger towns equipped to handle the passenger traffic, the Department of Civil Aviation is to be congratulated on being forward looking in meeting the wants of the industry in advance. The Department of Civil Aviation is endeavouring to encourage and assist viable feeder services from smaller country centres. We have emerged as an aviation nation which, though small in population, is comparable in safelyand efficiency with any nation in the world. 
I refer now to aircraft noise. Some people would suffer if it did not exist. Some people find it most disturbing. Manufacturers are spending thousands of dollars in reducing noise. They are making headway and eventually will succeed. I was outwitted and prevented from making my speech yesterday by the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage),  who has become airminded and at the present time has bats in ibo belfry. 
I rise to support the proposed expenditure for the Department of Housing. I would like to deal with this matter very quickly because I have quite a lot of ground to cover. In his 1963 Federal election policy speech, the then Prime Minister,  Sir Robert  Menzies, announced a unique governmental measure to assist and encourage young people to acquire their first matrimonial home. It is now over 5 years since the first applications under the Homes Savings G-rs.nl Act were received on 20th July 1964. In that time more than 168,000 young married couples throughout Australia have received grants amounting to some $73m. In that time successful young couples have acquired homes valued at almost $ 1,750m. The homes savings grant scheme is a limited measure that does not set out to solve all Australia's housing problems, but it has made a major contribution. There is no doubt that a basic objective of the scheme - to encourage young people to save for their own home - has been achieved. 
Savings made for housing purposes by successful applicants for a grant since the scheme commenced would be substantially in excess of $250m. As the average age of a husband who receives a grant is 26 years - an age when income earning capacity is still limited - it is evident that these young people have responded to the purpose of the scheme. There has also been a slow but steady growth in the proportion of applicants able to acquire homes within the first 3 years of their marriage. Young home seekers acquire their homes in a variety of ways - by the purchase of a new or previously occupied home, construction by a building contractor on their own land or construction as owner builders. The home may be a flat or a home unit or it may be used in conjunction with that young person's occupation, business or profession - for example a doctor's home and surgery or a farm home. The home may be erected on land that the young person owns or holds under a long term Crown or private lease or even on land held jointly with a third person under an exclusive right of occupancy. Provided that the applicant for a grant has security of tenure of the land and the home meets the local authority's requirements for permanent habitation, the scheme is sufficiently flexible to encompass a wide variety of circumstances. 
I have stated those facts,  Mr Chairman,  because many people do not know that they are entitled to this bonus. The majority of young people acquire their first home by purchasing a new or previously occupied home but about one-third build through a building contractor and some 5 per cent build their own homes as owner builders. Only 1 per cent acquire a flat or a home unit and about 1 per cent of those who receive a grant under the scheme build a home which in addition is used as a shop, office or farm. Each year some 30,000 young couples acquire their first home and receive  a  homes savings grant averaging more than  $400  as a tax free reward for their savings. The Commonwealth's constitutional powers on housing are limited and the scheme must be considered in the wider context of Commonwealth housing policy as a part of the overall approach to the needs of the community. The scheme assists young people in the age group from  18  to  36  years, when housing needs for young married couples are urgent but finance is limited. Assistance to those the scheme benefits is also offered through the Commonwealth's Housing Loans Insurance Act which is designed to reduce the need for a high interest second mortgage. 
I have stated these facts because again the great advantage that young people can get from the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation is not generally appreciated or as well known as it should be. 1 have been surprised on getting in touch with various lending institutions to learn that they have not been fully aware of the advantages to be gained from that Corporation which has done a very good job. Tt has helped to meet the deposit gap, has assisted young people and has obviated the need for them to go to a finance company and pay an excessive rate of interest. The Housing Loans Insurance Corporation has done an excellent job, and although extensively advertised and written up in various journals in some quarters the full benefit has not accrued to the young married couple because of ignorance of its functions. The Commonwealth Government also contributes in a worth while way to housing development generally through its important role in the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement; the dwellings for single aged pensioners scheme, which makes provision for the payment of grants to the States; the aged persons homes scheme, which involves the payment of subsidies to benevolent organisations, and the war service homes scheme which provides loans to ex-servicemen. These all encompass a great deal of assistance towards the housing of different sections of our community and I think the Government is to be congratulated and applauded on what it has done. 
I wished to make some further comments on that aspect of housing, but as time is so limited I will have to pass on to other matters I want to bring up. Due to a misunderstanding that is not entirely the fault of the applicants quite a number have failed to receive the grant. In the first instance many people believed that the cost of the home - say  $15,000 -  and not the value determined by a valuer was the material consideration. I think this is wrong. The scheme was designed to encourage thrift. This method discourages thrift. Land being purchased on terms is an allowable form of saving but a house and land being purchased on terms are not. I think this should be accepted as a form of saving. When a person buys a block of ground and pays it off on terms it is accepted. I cannot understand why, if he buys a house already on a block of land, he is not allowed to pay this off on terms and have it accredited as savings under this scheme. I trust the Minister will take note of that and have the Act amended so that instalments paid towards the purchase of a home can be taken into consideration. 
Many young couples missed out on the grant because their savings bank account was not designated as a homes savings account. In the first year of operation this was not a requirement and it is not now necessary to do so. I think in the circumstances enabling legislation should be passed in order to pay the grant to those people who have technically been adjudged unqualified for the grant and been refused it on this ground, I think it is unfair that these young people, who have done everything correctly, according to the spirit of the Act at any rate, should be disqualified for this purpose. 
I wanted to speak about dwellings for aged persons and the migrant flats scheme, but as time is running out I desire now to speak about the hight cost of land, especially in New South Wales. The high cos' of land in New South Wales has made ii more difficult for young people to own their own homes. The high cost of land  h  due to the implementation of planning in that State which is iniquitous and cruel in its application. Thousands of acres of land were frozen in a so-called green belt which has now almost completely disappeared. Thousands of vacant lots of land have an embargo upon them and are lying idle. Zoning is the great and paramount reason for high land prices. A contributing factor is the high handed attitude of the Metropolitan Water Sewerage and Drainage 
Board, which appears to be the determining factor in land releases. 
What is required in New South Wales is an elected co-ordinating advisory body to supersede the bureaucratic State Planning Authority of New South Wales which has caused distress, frustration and confusion wherever its tentacles have stretched out. Young people are being asked to pay a prohibitive and enormous price for land in New South Wales and this has been brought about by artificial implementation of planning. The Liberal-Country Party Government in New South Wales has made the great mistake of not repealing the socialistic legislation that was on the statute books when it first occupied the treasury bench. Had the New South Wales Government done the right thing as a free enterprise government it would have immediately repealed those Acts and young people would not now be in the position, as the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  has stated, of paying $8,000, $9,000 or $10,000 for land. This artificial implementation of planning has been responsible for this high increase, making it difficult for the low wage earner and the young married couple to own their own homes, as this and all Liberal governments would wish them to do. lt would appear to me that the only way the low wage earner will be able to purchase his home is through the Housing Commission, which offers exceptional terms. They are good. I believe that from now on, because of the high price of land, we should do all we can to assist the low wage earner to own his own home, if the position is not checked very quickly it will be quite impractical and impossible for the low wage earner to own his own home unless be purchases it through the Housing Commission of New South Wales. Houses built by the Housing Commission are quite well constructed and in most cases they are sited in desirable locations. I would like to see some checks on the inflationary trend in the price of land. I understand Victoria had adopted a system of zoning. In Victoria the price of land is sky rocketing and putting land outside the compass of those people whom we should endeavour most to assist. I refer to the low wage earner, especially the low wage earner with three or four children. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to speak tonight broadly on town planning and the urban sprawl, particularly as it affects New South Wales. The inherent disability not only in planning but also in almost every section and segment of our way of life is not only influenced but also dictated by overseas trends and personages. For most projects to have the seal of efficiency, to be modern and to be abreast of the times, it is necessary - yea. demanded - that the projects have the imprimatur of the imported stamped thereon. The Snowy Mountains scheme is one of the few exceptions. Imported ideas, imported personages and imported systems are the order of the day. Surely it is about time that we established our own identity as Australia and Australians. 
Our own planning is dictated and governed by what is done overseas. What a glorious opportunity we had of setting an example to the world by establishing beautiful cities instead of propping up old cities and wasting millions of dollars in expanding them into concrete jungles of ugliness- 
We have propped up old cities and wasted millions of dollars in expanding them into concrete jungles of ugliness as habitats for our people, forcing them to travel hundreds of miles weekly to their places of employment. Bribery and corruption have played a part in this wretched mess. Secrecy and star chamber methods have aided and abetted the situation. 
The position has deteriorated to such an extent in the Sydney area that our fellow Australians - unfortunately, the low wage earner and the married couple with 4 or 5 children - are not able to purchase a lot of land under $10,000. This situation came about by the establishment of the Cumberland County Council which, when it became bogged down with inefficiency and wrong doing - not by the executive officers thereof but by the higher up and the lesser people who were in a position to get advance information - was superseded by the State Planning Authority. Sad to relate, the Liberal and Country Parties did not abolish it immediately after they were elected to office in New South Wales. Because huge grotesque conglomerations called cities are being created overseas, we follow suit. I will expand this further next week. 
Tonight I want to deal with the operations of the Sydney Water Board, an autonomous authority which has failed to do what it was created to do, that is to supply water, sewerage and drainage services in the Sydney metropolitan area. Instead it has hoarded $132m and today has gone on the market for an unspecified amount. It will take all it can get and still refuse to extend the services that it should supply. Developers have been called on to provide the water reticulation services, which means that the purchasers of building lots have to pay for those services as well as being required to pay the some rates as those who had the services made available to them free of charge. The Sydney Water Board dictates the whole of the development of the Sydney metropolitan area. Tt would probably state that all of its staff and resources are utilised fully and therefore it cannot extend its services further. 
That may be so, but it could call in outside contractors. With $132m now in reserve and in investments it could service large non-sewered areas within the next 12 months. Larger areas could be serviced at less cost. Possibly that is one of the reasons why it does not wish to use the $132m. 
It has been suggested that the $160m Shoalhaven dam project should be financed in part from this reserve of $132m. If this dam is necessary - it would not have been necessary if new cities had been created - it should be built by the use of loan funds and not from revenue or from the reserves that the Board now holds. The Melbourne Board of Works builds roads and is responsible for planning. The Sydney Water Board is not responsible for planning, but it is a self appointed dictator of planning, and not a benevolent dictator at that. I have explained to the House tonight that the Sydney Water Board is going on the market and offering interest rates of 7 per cent, 7.2 per cent and 7.25 per cent when it has in reserve $132m and when many areas in Sydney, especially in the western suburbs, do not have sewerage available. The Melbourne Board of Works has a reserve of $5m and an investment of $3m. It builds roads and also is responsible for planning. The Sydney Water Board does nothing but prevent the advancement of the metropolitan area. Local government is being hampered by the Board's scheme because, without its approval, the State Planning Authority and local government in the Sydney area cannot proceed with the progressive works that they would like to do for the development of the outer areas because of the embargo by the Sydney Water Board. It is about time that the matter was brought clearly to public notice because many people- 
House adjourned at  12  midnight. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Primary Industry. Is the Minister aware of the plight of the small poultry farmer - the family unit - who has a flock of up to 10,000 birds? Is it possible to establish a system of registration of farms and a quota system? Is there any other way in which the industry can be rehabilitated to ensure its survival, or is it just a matter of where the chicken got the axe? 
I ask the Minister for Trade and Industry: Has the Government considered the desirability of embarking on a public relations and advertising campaign in the United Kingdom, extolling the high quality and reasonable prices of Australian primary products, especially food, and if possible drawing attention to the possible increases of food prices should Great Brittain enter the Common Market, when Australian produce, especially foodstuffs, would be excluded from entry to the United Kingdom? 
-My question is directed to the Minister for the Army. Has his attention been drawn to the fact that national servicemen serving in Papua and New Guinea, Singapore and Malaysia, if injured whilst not on duty, are not entitled to Commonwealth compensation and that some are up for heavy medical and surgical expenses  after discharge? Will he endeavour to have this position corrected, having regard to trie fact that these men are in such areas' at the direction of the Army? 
We have had a demonstration today of a little knowledge being dangerous. The honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  had he been fully aware of the circumstances, would not have made some of his statements. Interest is a commodity and, like other commodities, it has increased in value. But during the period of which he spoke, from  1946  to today, the basic wage has risen  5  or  6  times. I do not agree with the rise in the interest rate, but the hon ourable member conveniently forgot to tell the House that at the end of  25  years the person who elects to pay rent has nothing to show for his weekly outlay which is very much bigger than that of the person who purchases a house. The former has paid all his money away in rent and has no home. The person who purchased his home and paid it off by instalments has an asset which will appreciate in value over the years to about  $20,000  to  $25,000.  The honourable member, either is ignorant of these facts or is misleading the House. 
The special account has been desirable in the past, but I think the time has now arrived when we have to give consideration to the low wage earner and the person with four or five children. The honourable member asked how people on low incomes can be accommodated in the purchase of their homes. As far as New South Wales is concerned, I would say that there is no better method of purchasing a home for people on low wages and with limited resources than by purchasing through the Housing Commission of New South Wales. The Commission's homes are reasonable. They are built to a very high standard. The surroundings are quite good. Allowing for the pride in ownership of a home that a person takes, these homes are quite satisfactory. In Housing Commission areas not many amenities such as swimming pools and public halls are provided. This is unfortunate. The people who designed and organised these homes were wanting in their regard to the social amenities to which people in this day and age are entitled. 
The honourable member referred to Green Valley and such places. They are the outcome of a Socialist government, whose ideas have unfortunately been carried on by a Liberal government. The great sprawl that we have witnessed in the metropolitan area of Sydney should never have taken place. Years ago I fought strongly for and recommended that new cities and new towns be established. If one wants any idea of the efficacy of that statement one just needs to look around Canberra to see what can be done by proper organisation and planning. But what did we see in New South Wales? We saw the advent of the Cumberland County Council which took away the farm lands within a  25  mile radius of Sydney. It put an embargo on thousands of blocks of land in many streets where there was water and electricity reticulation. To this very day thousands of blocks of land that were subdivided prior to the war are lying idle while young married couples are denied the right to their own homes. This situation has been brought about by a Socialist government and sad to relate continued by a Liberal government not abolishing the scheme initiated by the government from which it took over. 
These circumstances are outside the control of this Government. I do hope and trust that great thought will be given to preventing this wretched urban sprawl in which necessary services must be provided over 30 miles to 35 miles whereas beautiful cities in which people would need to travel no more than 4 miles to 5 miles to reach the centre of each city could have been established. With respect to these seaboard cities in Australia, such as Sydney, which spread out to the west, to the north and to the south, we see the high cost involved in building facilities to provide essential services such as water supply and sewerage, and railways and transport systems. The costs involved are huge. In my area, 7,000 people leave the station at Seven Hills between the hours of 7 and 8 in the morning to travel 20 miles to 30 miles to their places of employment. If this is planning,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I do not know what the word means. 
This situation has been thrust upon us by people who. are not aware fully of the circumstances and to whom people do not matter. Mention to a planning authority officer the subject of people and he will laugh. Other than people, what is planning necessary for? To planning authorities people are just chessmen to be passed over on the board. It is time that we came to a realisation as to what is happening. We see ugly concrete jungles erected in a city such as Sydney. We see huge wastage of money when, within 12 miles of the city, expressways are built. Before those expressways are completed, they are out of date. 
Instead of expenditure being wasted in that way, less could have been spent to establish cities on our coast and in the centre of New South Wales. These would be cities of which we could have been proud and where areas of population could be well separated. When one reflects that these things are happening in a nuclear age, one wonders at the capacity of these planners to think. The explosion of one atomic bomb in the area and Newcastle and Sydney would be devastated. Nobody can dismiss my suggestion when we live in such a tortuous world by saying that such a thing will not happen. I remind the House that 10 years ago China did not have an atomic warhead. Now it has nuclear warheads. By our planning we are making possible this type of devastation that I have mentioned. An enemy would not need to allow even for a margin of error because we have allowed this intensified conglomeration of concrete and jungle to be constructed. 
Why did this state of affairs come about? It came about because we have not found an Australian character. Unless an item is imported, it is of no prestige, lt is about time that we became Australia and Australian. Our system of planning is no different from other systems. Planning systems must be imported. Everything, to be worthy of prestige, has to be imported. We have imported the stupid idea of big cities from the older countries of the world. This development occurred at the time of the industrial revolution. England was a beautiful country with its cities well separated. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! I would suggest that the honourable member is getting a little wide of the provisions of the Bill. 1 ask that (he honourable member return to the matter of housing. 
Well,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I am telling of housing. I am informing the House what we could have had but for the wasteful thinking of our planners. The money that we are supplying is being expended on this terrific sprawl and ugliness that has been presented to us by socalled planners. But, out of respect for you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I will not proceed on this point although I would have liked to have shown how the concept of cities of great mass emanated from the industrial revolution. We have followed suit. Now we are paying the penalty. 
The penalty is being paid by those to whom more consideration should be given. T refer to the low wage earner and to the young married couple who are rearing 4 or 5 children. In New South Wales, the burden that these people must carry has been caused by planning. There are thousands of blocks of land in my area which, if they had been free and no embargo had been placed on them by the Cumberland County Council and the State Planning Authority worthy Australians - worthy young people - would have been able to buy for 200 to 300 a block, that is, $400 to $600 a block. But this opportunity was denied to these people because of the advent of the Cumberland County Council and the State Planning Authority. 
Since 1951. when land could be purchased in North Parramatta for $500 a block, we find that a block of land cannot be purchased today at Smithfield, Fairfield or in some portions of the Blacktown municipality for less than $10,000 a block. These prices are artificial and arranged all because the old fashioned law of supply and demand was not permitted to prevail. If all the land that was available had been sold without any embargo, young married couples would have been able to purchase lots for not more than $2,000 to $2,500 each. These are the facts of lift. If the honourable member for Reid wants any tuition in and a full appreciation and understanding of these problems, I will be pleased to tutor him on them. 1 have had tremendous experience in this respect. I have had the great joy and privilege of seeing low wage earners being able to occupy 2,000 homes. I supervised this and, through the bank for which I worked, I found the money with which these homes were built. 1 am speaking in this regard about a matter of which I have full and ample knowledge. 
Reference might be made to the high cost of building. But, in this respect, we must have regard to the standard of improvement in homes and domestic appliances. We have seen this standard of improvement reflected in all rooms in a home including the bathroom. There is a general appreciation of the better type of home that has been erected over the last 5 years to 7 years. The real agony is caused because of the high cost of land. In Sydney where the State Planning Authority should control such matters, we find the autonomous Metropolitan Water Sewerage and Drainage Board, with reserves and investments valued at $132m while hundreds of homes go without water and hundreds of homes are without sewerage, exercising this control. The Board has this colossal amount of $132m lying idle while people still want water and sewerage services. 
The existing housing agreement ls an excellent one. The current 5-year agreement is drawing to a close. When we are making agreements with the States to cover the next 5 years I do trust that we will do everything possible to make it easier for the person on a low wage to buy a home. 1 trust the Commonwealth Government will take over the building of Service homes under the guidance of its own department. I think this is necessary because we should have individuality in design. If we mass produce homes there is always a tendency towards sameness and likeness and monotony, especially when homes that are erected by only one authority.  1  trust that Service homes will be of individual designs and that, for the convenience of the serving personnel, they will be in areas near to barracks, camps, naval depots and other such places. The present agreement has been achieved in spite of some disagreement. There has. of course, never been an agreement prepared that has not, but in a general way it has met a very difficult situation. As we move into the 1970s we will find that the agreement of 1955-66 is not the type of agreement that will be for the betterment of those people wanting houses. For those reasons we should give the matter very serious consideration and I trust that the Minister will meet the housing committee of the Government parties so that we can go into this matter very fully and give it the consideration and thought that it deserves. I commend the Bill for what it is doing in regard to housing. 
I wish to make a personal explanation,  Mr Speaker. 
1 rise to support the Bill. I believe that some of the statements made by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  and the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  are not in accordance with fact. There are members of this side of the House who desire that before any scheme which will mean the expenditure of many millions of dollars is implemented it should first be determined to be viable. They argue that a cost and feasibility study should be undertaken before the scheme is commenced. 1 think that is what should be done. It is a businesslike approach; it is most desirable. I do not know why honourable members opposite single out the honourable member or Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  so often for criticism. All he is demanding is that a sensible, logical and commonsense approach be adopted. We have been subjected to a tirade of abuse and to assertions that the Government has not done enough and that after 69 years of federation we are still without water. This is far from the truth. 
Let me state what has been done by the Government. The projects in which the Commonwealth has assisted or is assisting include the Snowy Mountains scheme at a cost of $696m; the national water resources development programme involving non-repayable grants to five States amounting to $53m; stage 1 of the Ord irrigation project at a cost of $1 2.18m; and stage 2 of the project at a cost of $48. 18m. That shows how keen the Government is to assist in the conservation of water. Loans to the States and the direct Commonwealth share of building the Dartmouth Dam, chosen as the next major storage on the Murray River, will amount to nearly $3 6m. That scheme has been delayed by the Premier of South Australia,  Mr Dunstan.  The other States involved are happy with the scheme, but he wants to be out of step. To make political capital out of the issue just before the Senate election, he delayed this work. Now he is complaining about the delay. He also wants some assurances about . the Chowilla project. How foolish can one become - to use water conservation for political purposes. No mill will grind on water that has passed by. It is about time the Opposition realised just what the Government is doing about water conservation. Let me continue with the list of projects in which the Commonwealth has assisted or is assisting. They include a contribution towards the cost of Blowering Dam amounting to $20.5m; for New South Wales flood mitigation works on the coastal rivers. $Sm; and a contribution of $20. 5m towards the Western Australian comprehensive water supply scheme. T could go on ad infinitum and quote from this list of what the Government has done to aid in the conservation of water. 
 This Bill more especially deals with State grants for water resources measurement in regard to surface and underground water. This matter has been traversed ably by the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn).  It is pleasing to note that the Emerald scheme, which the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  and myself, with other members of a Government committee, visited on a fact finding tour, is proceeding. We listened to what the people of Emerald and surrounding districts had to say. The Queensland Government had prepared plans and the Commonwealth Government came in to assist. The scheme now being formulated and sponsored by the Government rebuts what the Opposition is saying about water conservation. The Government is doing a very practical and commonsense thing in relation to the measurement of the flow of subterranean water. I congratulate the former Minister for National Development, the honourable member for Farrer, on the tremendous work that he did and the knowledge that he brought to bear when he occupied min isterial rank. I congratulate also the present Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  and the Government, and regret that the Opposition has made some statements which would have been better left unsaid. 
It is provided somewhere in the Bill. 
 I wish to comment on the necessity to appoint a full time  chairman  of the Austraiian Wool Commission. This will limit the choice of the best man available for the position. I think that the  chairman  of the Commission should be the counterpart of a  chairman  of directors of a company. If the position of  chairman  is open only to someone who is prepared to serve full time it will limit the number of people who will make themselves available. The people who are most able to serve in this position because they have a greater capacity and ability may not be prepared to serve full time. I believe that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  should give eanest consideration to this matter because the success of the Australian Wool Commission depends on who is appointed as its  chairman. 
Clause 18 (3.) states: 
The Commission may exercise any of its functions outside Australia. 
Will the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  please explain why that would be necessary? 
I desire that my name be recorded that I oppose the Bill. I think there will be a big loss of money and no advantage to the growers. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
I rise tonight on this very important occasion to add what I trust will be an intelligent appreciation of the situation as it now exists in regard to the wool industry. I wanted to quote something which I noticed on my office table, lt is: 'God grant me the serenity to accept the things I cannot change, courage to change the things I can, and wisdom to know the difference.' I approach this subject tonight in that vein. I want to impress upon those who hold very definite ideas that people holding contrary ideas are just as sincere and as genuine in their attempts to do the best thing possible for the growers of wool in this country. I want to state right now without any qualification whatsoever that this scheme will not render unto the grower one extra cent. I have no better authority for that statement than  Sir William  Gunn who stated some 3 or 4 months ago that he could not give any guarantee that there would be any increase in the price of wool as a result of this scheme. 
The further decrease in the price of wool in Australia has been brought about by the lack of confidence in all sections of the industry engendered by a series of events that have occurred this year. Firstly, there were the stage managed meetings that growers held earlier this year at the instigation of the Australian Wool Board and graziers' organisations, at which resolutions were passed requesting and demanding that a single marketing authority be set up. Secondly, there was the Wool Board's report on the establishment of a marketing authority followed by the report of the Wool Board's Advisory Committee recommending the setting up of a single statutory authority and the establishment of a reserve price and an acquisition scheme. The latter has been described as a shocker, even by those now in favour of the marketing authority and reserve price scheme which this Bill provides for. Thirdly, rumours spread overseas in September that wool sales were to be suspended for one month. This caused confusion all over the world and the rumours should have been promptly denied by  Sir William  Gunn. He did not deny that there would be a suspension of sales. Fourthly, there was the curt reception the members of the International Wool Textile Organisation received from some members of the wool industry and, fifthly, there was the opposition to some of the sections of  Sir John  Crawford's report to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony). 
Most industries spend thousands of dollars attracting users and buyers of their products. The Wool Board and graziers' and growers' associations - not the majority of growers - spend much money and effort in driving them away.  Mr Gullett's  statement in regard to a buyers' cartel has cast suspicion and a stigma on the other 166 buyers.  Mr Gullett  should name the 2 buyers who informed him that a cartel was arranged to bring about a decrease in the price of wool in Australia and the Government should appoint a select committee which would be required to bring in its findings within a fortnight. We could bring  Mr Gullett  before the committee, find out the names of the buyers and bring the representatives of the buyers before the committee. Then once and for all it could be established whether a cartel is operating to the disadvantage of the wool growers in Australia. This time last year I said it appeared to me that a cartel was operating. 
We have a golden opportunity to prove one way or the other whether an organised attempt is being made to depress the price of wool in Australia. I trust the Government will grasp this opportunity with both hands to establish whether a cartel has been operating to the detriment of the wool industry in Australia. Fear and desperation can produce and have produced unreasoned logic. The lessons of the past and the techniques that we know are being discarded, not because they have fallen down but for schemes unproven. This is being done because it is a change. 
We should consider the position of the wool industry. I have been to the Library and have traversed the history of the wool industry from the start of the First World War. Wool was a required commodity. Great Britain wanted it and she desperately desired that it should not be used by the enemy. More or less the same thing happened in the Second World War. Australia had a reserve price in 1921 when the British Government guaranteed a fixed price of 8c a lb. The industry quickly rehabilitated itself, the wool market became stable and the surplus wool which had built up was quickly sold. We have to look at the wool industry as it now is. Firstly, I want to deal with some of the statements made by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  I am astounded that he is so ill-informed in regard to marketing. He stated that all experts had agreed to an acquisition scheme. If honourable members go back to the Philp report of 1961 they will find that it strenuously opposed the establishment of the statutory authority, a reserve price and an acquisition scheme. 
I recorded the honourable member as saying 'all experts'. Now he is speaking about willing buyers. He paraded this suggestion of collusion. 1 ask him, if he is so definite that there is collusion, why does he not bring the evidence before the House? From investigations that I have made and from reading the Australian Encyclopaedia I find that in the wool industry there has been not one defalcation in the payment for wool purchased. I find that when there has been disagreement or misrepresentation in regard to marketing, not once has lt gone to court. The differences have been settled amicably. The wool industry must be a remarkable one to have existed so long with this record. There would be no other sphere of business where this would happen. 
I want to impress upon the people the position in which the wool industry now finds itself. In 1958 there was a drop in the price of wool. Man-made fibres were 50 per cent dearer than wool in 1958 when wool was at a lower price than it had been for a few years. But now, at the prices that were applicable 3 weeks ago, man-made fibres are 50 per cent cheaper than wool fibres. Have honourable members opposite got that in their minds? Three weeks ago man-made fibres were 50 per cent cheaper than wool fibres. We have got to face the facts of life and the facts of marketing. Almost every segment of the wool industry is in difficulty. This season wool garments and fabrics could not find a ready market in the United Kingdom and Europe. It is no good putting our heads in the sand and not standing up to the realities of the situation. Wool has certain qualities that are incomparable. 
Our difficulties arise mainly from the inability of the International Wool Secretariat and the Australian Wool Board to do their job as they should. Australia subscribes many millions of dollars to the International Wool Secretariat. It would not agree to promote the blends such as terylene and wool and wool with other fibres. There was a terrific market there, but we kept to the old idea of selling all-wool garments. We have missed out on that segment of the trade, and now we are suffering.  Sir William  Gunn must bear the brunt - as a general does if he loses a battle - for the decline in the industry as it now exists. The Wool Board has let the growers of Australia down. I have heard some people say that the Government should have come in. I say that the Government should come in only when it is requested to do so. We do not interfere with organisations like Broken Hill Proprietary Company Ltd or Lysaghts. They run their businesses. If it wants any assistance from the Government, it is the industry's job to approach the Government.  Sir William  Gunn sold the wool growers down the drain. He should take full responsibility for what has occurred in the wool industry. 
I want to get my message over as quickly as I can, so I will condense as much as I can. I will read a letter that I sent. We should not have any ideas that the majority of wool growers are in favour of this scheme. I have batches of letters, not only from individuals but from individuals on behalf of hundreds of other wool growers. There is no unanimous approval of this scheme or of any other wool marketing scheme. 1 can prove that. I can prove that the owners of 60 per cent of- Australia's sheep are opposed to the scheme. They want loan money. Furthermore, they want it at commercial rates. They say that, if the industry is not viable and cannot stand on its feet, it is time they got out. I shall read a letter that I wrote to  Mr Hudson,  who wrote to me about a certain matter. -Because it is written I can read it quickly and I will be able to finish quoting it before I resume my seat. It reads: 
Thank you for your letter of 19th October which f have read carefully and with interest. While I share your concern at the present situation in which most primary producers are placed, I feel that certain of your statements need interpretation. In some respects I do not agree with your conclusions and necessarily, therefore, I do not agree with the steps you suggest for correcting problems. 
I shall refer to several of the points you make in the order in which they appear in your letter. 
Forward Selling 
I do not dispute your contention that some SO per cent of the wool clip is sold on firm contracts for delivery at nominated dates. 
The question of the impact on prices of the practice of selling forward was fully investigated by the Philp Committee in 1961, and has been frequently discussed in the last few years. I believe the following points are valid: 
wool is faced with strong and increasing competition from man-made fibres, which are immediately available to the mills. Mill programmes are established at least one year ahead, and supplies of fibres must be assured. The mills cannot risk a breakdown in supply which will throw machinery and labour idle. 
Forward contracts allow the mills to schedule deliveries of wool, recognising that the source of supply of the raw material is far distant from the ultimate consumer market. 
Forward contracts, therefore, counteract the immediate availability of man-made fibres and place wool in a sounder competitive position. 
You argue that the practice depresses prices as the forward contract prices have a limiting effect on competition. It can equally well be argued that as deliveries must be effected in accordance with contract terms, competition can be stimulated, a point emphasised by the Philp Committee. 
Forward selling is not, in my view, the cause of the economic crisis among woolgrowers, nor is it the reason for the low level of prices. Three factors combine to determine profitability, production, which is determined in large measure by seasonal conditions, costs of production, which have continued to rise, and prices, which have fallen seriously. 
Of these factors I regard the drought as the major adverse influence, as in the badly affected areas it has reduced production in quantity and quality, caused rapid increases in liabilities, and involved a higher rate of expenses. 
Merely to lay the blame for the crisis on the level of wool prices is not logical, and clearly the adverse season has been a major cause in the reduction in prices. The modern, high-speed mill machinery cannot cope with the tender light wool which was been offered in large quantities, and this necessarily results in discounted values. 
If forward contracting were abolished another advantage would be conceded to man-made fibres, and I consider the adverse effect on wool prices would be serious. We cannot risk those steps which would make wool commercially hazardous to the buyer and user. 
Gross Wool Income 
The most recently published figures indicate a recovery in wool production this year which will in part offset the fall in value. Present indications are that gross wool realisations in 1970-71 will fall by not more than $150m, not $400m as estimated by you. 
The probable reduction of $150m is serious in itself, but I must query your figure to ensure that proper perspective is maintained. I believe also, that the rules of supply and demand do apply to wool, and that an increased supply at a time of economic depression in several of the major buying countries, such as France and Italy, would in itself have a depressing effect on prices. 
I think there is some substance in the proposed amendment to clause 16(1.) (a). A member could put himself in a very difficult position. However, I do not think that such a man would be appointed to the Commission. It would be foolish to appoint to the Commission a man holding a managerial office in a wool buying and wool broking business. I cannot conceive that it would ever happen. If the Minister will give us an assurance to that effect, it may not be necessary to amend the clause. 
I think the point raised by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  is covered by clause 24 which states: 
The arrangements that may be made by the Commission include arrangements with brokers for the deduction by brokers, in accordance with provisions to be included in the terms and conditions upon which  wool  is accepted by brokers for auction . . . 
The broker will sell the wool on behalf of a client, deduct all the charges and then send the client a cheque. 
by leave- I want to comment on the report of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Aircraft Noise. It has been an interesting, exhilarating and wonderful experience for members of the Committee because they have obtained much evidence and been informed by people of great stature. Noise is a psychological and social problem which affects some people but which is of no great disadvantage to other people. The Committee questioned people who reside quite close to airports. In Adelaide, where planes come in to land at a height not much above 150 feet, nearby residents offered no objection to the noise but, on the contrary, stated that if the flight paths were altered they would miss the noise and would be affected in a reverse way. Aircraft noise is a difficult problem. Australia has the great distinction of being one of the forerunners in the investigation of the alleviation of this nuisance. 
It is very difficult to protect Australian airport workers who, like most Australians, are carefree. Earguards are provided to protect them from hearing disabilities but it is difficult for management and even for unions to persuade the workers to use earpads. This morning we have listened to the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  and the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  but I point out that it was never intended that the Committee should investigate the problem of the positioning of future airports. This subject matter was not incorporated in the Commitee's terms of reference and the Committee did not report thereon. The  Chairman  of the Committee suggests to me that should the Parliament require it, all members of the Committee would be pleased to serve on a committee appointed to investigate the siting of airports in Australia and on Norfolk Island. 
Members of the Committee have been happy in their deliberations. Of course we have differed on occasions, but this has been an informative and educational exercise. Now that we have completed our work I think it would be advisable perhaps to form some sort of mutual admiration society and express complimentary remarks about those people who have been associated with the Committee. All members of the Committee would agree that we were astounded and astonished at the perception of our  Chairman  and at the quick way he took up the cudgels when we first met in December of last year. To the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Buchanan)  I express our thanks for his guidance and assistance during the time we were investigating this problem. I compliment also  Mr Jack  Rose. Frequently it is brought home to us how little we know, not only about' the universe and things in general but about ourselves. In Jack Rose we had perhaps one of the most learned scientists in the acoustics field in Australia, and to him we express our thanks. He was able to speak in a layman's language that we could understand and we are all better informed by our association with him.  Mr Keith  Leonard and  Mr Gross  from the Department of Civil Aviation were always willing to assist. They are intelligent and informed men and we congratulate them on their work. No matter how good a  chairman  is, unless an organisation has a good secretary it falls down. I pay my tribute to the dedication of  Mr Bruce  Chapman and of his assistant,  Mr Ken  Hale, and to the clerical staff that assisted us during our deliberations. 
The manufacturers of aircraft engines have spent millions of dollars in an endeavour to construct an engine that is not as noisy as existing engines and they have made a wonderful contribution, as evidenced by the fact that the jumbo jet makes less noise than the 707 or the 727. There is a great effort being made in aircraft and engine construction to reduce noise and it is meeting with reasonable success. Hand in hand with the reduction of noise goes a reduction in efficiency and an increase in the cost of maintenance and operation. I commend the report to the House and again thank the  Chairman  of the Committee for the very excellent job that he did. 
My question is directed to  the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is he aware that questions have been asked in another place about aircraft purchased by the Government for the foreign aid programme? Could the Minister let the House know the details of the purchases and when the purchase price can be announced? When considering further purchases will the Government keep in mind the Transavia general purpose aircraft? Is he aware that this plane of magnificent performance is wholly designed and constructed in Australia and sold at a third of the cost of similar aircraft? 
I ask the Treasurer a question. Is he aware that Sydney agents of overseas organisations have received cables stating that there are rumours abroad that Australia intends to devalue its currency and that they wish to be kept advised in regard to this matter? I ask: ls it the Government's intention to devaluate? 
Is it possible for the Minister for Primary Industry to tell the House the number of bales of wool presently stockpiled by the Australian Wool Commission? Can he also advise the number of bales the Commission has resold and, if any were sold, the profit obtained? 
I thank the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  for his careful analysis of this subject and the thorough manner in which he has dealt with it. One cannot say much with regard to this matter. We are presented with' a fait accompli. We are asked to confirm payments made to personnel within the 3 Services and to civilians * employed therein after different formalities had been adopted. 
I think the necessity for this Bill highlights 2 facets of Government administration. The first is the efficiency of the Auditor-General's Department in detecting such unauthorised payments  -  I use the word 'unauthorised' rather than the word unlawful' - even if such non-authorisation came about by a mere technicality or an omission to provide a regulation or by-law in its proper form to authorise payments for some time prior to the period mentioned in this legislation. The other facet is the care and authority that is necessary before public moneys can be expended. As I said, there is only one thing we can do in regard to this matter. I endorse the remarks of the honourable member for Melbourne Ports. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and is supplementary to the question 1 asked last Thursday in relation to DC3 aircraft purchases. Can the Minister now give the contract price for the purchase of the DC3 aircraft? 
I preface my question to the Minister for Trade and Industry by stating that I am a Bert Kelly protectionist  and not. a Ned Kelly protectionist. Can the Minister state when the formula and programme for holding an investigation into the functions and administration of the Tariff Board will be prepared? If an inquiry is to be held, is it not most desirable that it be held as quickly as possible? 
One of the weirdest statements I have ever heard in my life is the statement by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  that we should take over the financing of flood mitigation, feasibility tests and all the associated work from the States. This would be to the detriment of the States. Who would be better equipped to do this than the States? It would appear from what the honourable member for Dawson was stating that the States were not supplying any money, lt would appear from what he suggests that the Commonwealth Government would have to supply all the money or request the local government authority to do so. 
I well remember when an earlier agreement was brought to this House and I asked the then Treasurer why the Hawkesbury River was not included in the scheme of things. I was told that it was simply because the New South Wales Government had not included it. On making inquiries from the New South Wales Government I learned from the then Premier,  Mr Jack  Renshaw, that better things were intended by the State Government for the Hawkesbury River. But, of course, this never eventuated. Because of representations that I made the Hawkesbury River is now included in the terms of this Bill. It does seem odd that the honourable member for Dawson should advocate that this Parliament should take over from the States, should take no notice of what they say, and should spend money on rivers not recommended by the State governments. I cannot understand his reasoning in this respect. It seems to me to be utterly foolish, and I must oppose the amendment. 
Is the Minister for Primary Industry aware that almost every overseas segment of the wool industry including processors, scourers, combers, toppers, spinners and weavers is apprehensive about the operations of the Australian Wool Commission? Is he aware that these people fear that a collapse of the whole industry is imminent? Will the Minister table in this House the financial position of the 
Commission as at 28th February and give full particulars of stockpiles of wool? Is the Minister aware that lack of confidence is a factor in the present depressed price of wool? 
I will not delay the House long, but I think the time has arrived when we have to look the matter of the Australian Wool Commission and the plight of the wool industry throughout the world fairly and squarely in the face. The Opposition supported the establishment of the Commission, but today it bemoans what has occurred since the creation of the Commission. The 
Opposition did not take notice of me when I forecast what would happen. I forecast correctly. I said that when the Commission commenced operations there would be an animated market for the time being but that prices would gradually fall. One maxim that is always good in most facets of life is to always give the other man credit for having as much common sense as yourself. We are not doing that any more with one of our best customers for wool. 
I refer to the International Wool Textile Organisation. I met representatives of the Organisation in France. They came from Belgium, Germany, Holland and England. These families have been in the wool business for 300 or 400 years. They realise that if any section of the wool industry is depressed naturally other sections of the industry will be depressed. These people are distressed because they do not know from day to day the position in the wool industry. They put it to me in the plainest and simplest terms: 'What would you do in our position when there is a stockpiling of wool in Uruguay, New Zealand, Australia and South Africa? If you were a purchaser and processor of wool, what would you do? You would do exactly the same as we are doing - buying our bare requirements.' This comment applies to the wool stockpiled not only in Australia but in the other countries I have mentioned. These people, who are the backbone of the wool industry, deplore the secrecy surrounding the wool industry in Australia. 
Under the Australian Wool Commission Bill which we passed in this Parliament the Commission has to report fortnightly to the Minister on the state of the stockpile of wool and the financial position of the Commission. Open confession is good for the soul, and it would be good if the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  were to come into the House and tell us the position of the Commission at this time. We have set up this very costly Commission whose main purpose to date has been to block up the potholes. We have already set up the costly Australian Wool Industry Conference and the Australian Wool Board which over the years should have carried out the functions which the Wool Commission is now undertaking. It should not have been left to the Commission, which has been recently formed, to block up the potholes. When I refer to potholes I am referring to such matters as making an appraisal of wool, core testing wool, devising a better presentation of wool and introducing better marketing arrangements for wool. All of these functions could have been undertaken by the Australian Wool Industry Conference or the Australian Wool Board. 
A vast amount of money is being expended through the International Wool Secretariat. It financed Chichester's trip around the world, but I would be a very surprised man if that resulted in the sale of an extra bale of wool. Chichester's trip was a wonderful feat but, after all, the Secretariat is there to present wool in its best form to the public and to sell wool. After having expended thousands of dollars on the advertising stunt involving Chichester's trip, the Secretariat is now to sponsor the Grand Prix of Great Britain. If anybody could convince me that that would result in the sale of one bale of wool or one yard of cloth I would be a very surprised man. 
We want the Wool Secretariat and the other bodies involved in promoting the sale of wool to get the manufacturers to go in for blends. As we all know, wool makes the greatest cloth in the world and there is not one synthetic or man-made fibre which would not benefit from the addition of wool to its texture. Most suits which I wear consist of 45 per cent wool and 55 per cent terylene. For some unknown reason the International Wool Secretariat, which is the promoter of the sale of wool throughout the world, has neglected this blend aspect and still wants to sell wool in its manufactured form. We all know that wool is the most wonderful cloth in the world. I would like to see the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  15 years hence walking about in a suit that he purchased today. A wool suit will last 15 years, but who wants a suit to last that long? 
It would be pretty baggy at the end of that time. I think that the time has arrived when the Government should be honest with the wool grower. 
Statements such as that made by  Mr Vines  yesterday are not fair. They give people false hope that the wool industry is likely to come good within the near future. That is only wishful thinking. There is no possible chance of that happening until the world surplus of wool has been used and until we find a better method of promotion. To say that the Commission may have saved the wool growers $80m is wrong and is giving false hope to those people who would like to get out of the industry. When these statements are made logic is put to one side. It is wishful thinking that the wool industry will come into its own within the very near future. 
The huge stores in England and on the Continent are full of woollen clothing. Marks and Spencers have advised the Bradford woollen mills that they will not require any woollen garments for another 2 years. At the present time everything is militating against the manufacture of woollen cloth for fashion garments. How often does one see a person wearing a woollen sports coat now? The mini skirt has diminished the requirements for wool. The wool industry will have to go through a torrid time at least for the next 12 months. After that there may be a lift. We should be honest with the people who want to leave the industry. We should not give them false hopes. We should be truthful in our statements. 
This morning we have been entertained by the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly).  It is good to have these little entertainments from time to time but when one looks at the opposite side one cannot help but feel sorry for the wonderful grass roots of the Australian Labor Party which are now about to be weeded out. We have seen my personal friend the honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Luchetti)  and the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Webb),  who are both grass root members of the Labor Party, weeded out. There will be some difficulty in rooting out the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  and the honourable member for Grayndler. The people who would love to dispose of those honourable members are not likely to come back here after the 1972 election. So I think that my honourable friend from Grayndler and the honourable member for Newcastle will still be in their positions on the Opposition front bench. I trust that my honourable friend from Macquarie will be reinstated to the position he held before the semiintellectuals came here last year. 
Last night during the adjournment debate I spoke on the Australian Wool Commission. I stated how wrong it was to give false hope and false promises to wool growers who are thinking of relinquishing wool growing when there is no immediate hope for the future. The minimum time that will elapse before the problems of the wool industry can be sorted out is 2 years, and many people in the industry will go through difficult times that they would not endure if it were not for these false hopes that are raised from time to time. 
Today I want to speak more particularly about the Australian Industry Development Corporation. Of course, my attitude and that of 4 other members of the Liberal Party in relation to this Corporation was made known when the Bill relating to its establishment was before the House. I do not doubt the sincerity of those people who initiated this scheme. They had grandiose ideas of what it could accomplish but they did not make the intense inquiries and do the research that was necessary before such an instrumentality was set up. It is alarming to see that the Director of this Corporation has such amazing powers. In his endeavour to recruit personnel to the Corporation he is offering huge salaries a,t a time when other people are being requested to accept lower salaries. He is offering all types of inducements to people to join the Corporation. I suggest that the Government think again before we become involved in heavy expenditure assisting the establishment of a corporation that I doubt will be very successful in achieving the purpose for which it has been formed. My business training and tuition tell me that it will be right against it from the start and that it will have only a remote chance of succeeding. 
I am positive that anything the Australian Industry Development Corporation can do the Australian Resources Development Bank can do much better and at much less cost. This bank has the necessary framework and its personnel have had long years of training in doing exactly as this Government would like it to do. Its charter may have to be altered. But why have 2 instrumentalities in almost the same field operating at the cost of Australia? I plead with the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and the Cabinet to give this matter very serious thought. Of course we require more Australian equity in Australian companies, but we must admit that until a few years ago it was very difficult to get Australian capital invested in Australian enterprises, especially if there was an element of risk. But Australian investors have .gained confidence because of the inflow of capital from overseas and now there is an increased disposition towards Australian equity investment in Australian companies. We need this foreign capital inflow, but no organisation, by paying great salaries and offering very wonderful terms and conditions of employment, can attract capital from over seas at the desired interest rate unless that capital is available and is readily able to be employed in the companies of Australia. 
This Corporation will be approached for financial assistance only by companies that are in dire straits, and therefore the risk that is attendant in assisting such companies is great. Another influence on the activities of the AIDC will be the interest rate abroad. At the time of the establishment of this Corporation the interest rates abroad were between 10 per cent and 12 per cent. It would not be reasonable, right or just to borrow money at that rate of interest. So I plead with the Government to heed what I have said before this enormous Corporation begins its operations. I particularly emphasise the power it will have to make agreements in regard to salaries and terms of employment. I trust that the charter of the Australian Resources Development Bank will be altered to allow it to take over the functions for which the AIDC has been set up because I know that it will be almost virtually impossible for the AIDC to function successfully under the terms of the Act which established it. 
One understands how people who speak of percentages get things out of proportion, lt is erroneous lo compare pension rates with average wages. In 1949, because of the Chifley Government, very few people earned more than 500 a year. If one tries to relate pension rates to very low wage incomes one gets a distortion of the facts. I believe that my friend the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  was genuine in what he stated but, as he said, figures and percentages lie. I say to honourable members opposite that when they speak of percentages they should always relate them to something. This is how they get out of their depths. 
Some 6 or 7 years ago it was argued that pension rates should rise following increases in the prices index. Had the Government been persuaded to adopt that policy pensioners would have been receiving $3 to $4 a week leass than they are receiving today. Honourable members opposite who delve into these matters should try to get accurate percentages and their facts right before expounding on them in this chamber. They have made many contradictory statements about a national superannuation scheme. The honourable member for Hughes mentioned the name of a professor who had said that the value of savings had depreciated over the years. Of course this happens. This is one of the difficulties faced by people who take out insurance polices, and it would be one of the great difficulties with a national superannuation scheme. 
As one who has studied and given long hours of thought to national superannuation I can say that no-one would be happier than I and no government would be more pleased than this one if it were possible and feasible to bring in such a scheme without imposing exhobitant taxes to finance the scheme for the initial difficult period of 3 or 4 years. Over the last 25 years our population has grown. A similar growth in future would add greatly to the difficulty of introducing a national superannuation scheme. Another difficulty would come from the fact that in many cases people coming into the scheme would be past middle age. It has been proved actuarially to the Government Members Social Services Committee that it would be almost impossible to launch a national superannuation scheme. 
There is no greater advocate of national superannuation than the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth).  For the whole of the time that I have been in Parliament this has been his one great aim and his one great desire. He is a mathematician of no mean ability, having been during his lifetime financial and economic adviser to the New South Wales Government. He is a man of great ability in this field, but so far he has not been able to supply facts and figures to those of us on the Government Members Social Services Committee to show that it would be possible or feasible to establish a national superannuation fund. Much reference has been made to the wishes of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  to do something for pensioners, and there has been much play on suggested dissensions within the Liberal Party, which is a partner in the coalition Government. I want it to be known that there is no dissension. There may be, as there are in all organisations, a few people who are offside with one another, but there is no great dissension in regard to policy or in relation to what we are doing for Australia. 
Various speakers, whom I shall not mention separately, have harped on the average wage. T appeal to the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  not to compare the situation of war widows with that of any other section of the community. To do so is unfair and unjust. I do not mind the honourable member doing as such as he can for civilian widows and advocating increased and better benefits for them, but he should not compare or contrast them with war widows. 
I shall tell you why. If the honourable member will listen he will hear some common sense. The war widow's husband was killed in the service of his country and was not covered by any form of insurance such as workers' compensation or third party insurance. Therefore a grateful and dignified country should endeavour to pay to the war widow and her children the maximum amount of pension. If a man is killed at work or as a result of a car accident he may be covered by workers compensation in the former case or third party insurance in the latter. If a family is provident, especially in the early stages of married life, the husband will take out an insurance policy on his life. There are many forms of insurance, especially for those who are in receipt of a low wage, by which provision can be made for a family in the event of a tragic happening. I am not against anyone who is endeavouring to obtain increased benefit for civilian widows, but I ask honourable members not to compare civilian widows' pensions with war widows' pensions. 
In determining a pension we should not have regard only to the average salary or wage. Unionists in my electorate have long since realised that it is not what they get in their pay envelope, but what they can purchase with what is contained in their pay envelope, that counts. The sooner we wake up to this, the sooner we will be on the road towards defeating the inflationary trend that now exists. When the Opposition moves an amendment to a Bill it invariably uses the words 'whilst not opposing the Bill, the House is of the opinion that . . .'It has not the determination or the fortitude to challenge the legislation. I think 10 or 15 points of order were taken last night in an attempt to frustrate the Minister for Social Services in his endeavour to get this Bill through the House to enable pensioners to receive the additional benefit as quickly as possible. If the Opposition wants to oppose Government legislation its members should be game enough to stand up in this House and state their intentions. I dare say that the reason is that if the Opposition put forward some airy-fairy proposal and if by some mischance it ever became the Government, its members would have to stand by what is stated in this amendment which contains the words 'the increase proposed is inadequate', and 'social service payments generally are inadequate to maintain an acceptable standard of living'. The amendment is indefinite. It states nothing positive. 
Then why not state figures? Let us have something definite or pass this Bill in its present form so that the people will receive the additional benefit. At the present time people are singing from the rooftops about the need for a national superannuation scheme without first giving any thought to it. They have taken as a guide a professor who perhaps has never worked in an insurance company, a bank or a factory but has obtained his degrees in economics without having any experience in the professions I have just mentioned. 
We are most fortunate in having a Minister who is most desirous of helping those most in need. It was very gratifying to hear him repeat so many times last night the promise of the Prime Minister to have a thorough investigation into all aspects of social services. This is only a continuation of the wonderful benefits that have been introduced. Every improvement to the base pension set out in the Social Services Act has been made by a LiberalCountry. Party Government. Nobody can contend that what I am stating is not the truth. Every side benefit has been given by a Liberal-Country Party Government. The base pension has been operative since about 1908. 
I congratulate the Minister and 1 hope he will continue to do his best to iron out the anomalies, particularly for single pensioners who have to pay rent. I trust that their position will be alleviated. I have been associated with pensioners for 25 or 27 years. I took an active part with a former honourable member for Mitchell, Roy Wheeler, who put up a tremendous fight to get the differential rate for pensioners. I am very proud of the part 1 played in that respect. I commend the Minister and I oppose the amendment. 
My question  is  directed to the Minister for the Navy. I ask: How dry  is  the Navy? 
 My question is directed to the Minister for Labour and National Service. Has the New South Wales Labor Council endorsed a campaign to win a 35- hour working week for the power industry in 1971 by direct strike action? Will the Minister indicate the effect on the economy and on employment and conditions in other industries which are dependent on power? 
The Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten)  desires to explain a very detailed matter and requires most of the time left for this debate. I do not want to traverse the pensions and the increases that have been awarded because they have been dealt with by other speakers today. Of course these increases were not envisaged until we had a new Prime Minister, and I think it was a noble gesture that one of his first actions was to announce a proposal to increase social service and repatriation benefits. We know that these increases do not go as far as we would like. We would like them to be extended very much further. Be that as it may, and despite the knocking that the Repatriation Act gets from various people, be it known unto all men that it is the greatest Repatriation Act in  the  world. There is not another country which has anything approaching this Act. However we want benefits to be increased further. 
As previous speakers, including  the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard),  have stated, many anomalies  are  created by the Act and it is most desirable that we correct them in the  light  of the present economic position. I  think  that that will be done in the next Budget. Government supporters who serve on the Government Members Ex-servicemen's Committee are prepared to meet representatives from the Returned Services League national executive. We would go into all aspects of the matter and put a very forthright  case  before the Cabinet. 
I am very pleased - I hope you  will  bear with me,  Mr Deputy  -  Speaker - that the  Department of Health has  made  a pronouncement in  regard  to a wonderful drug called L-dopa. I have people in  my  electorate who would not have been able to work if this drug had not been available to them. They would have become invalid pensioners and dependent on Commonwealth funds. But because of' this wonderful drug these people are able  to  work. Although the Government has not placed the drug on the free list I am pleased to say that its cost has been reduced considerably. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER  (Mr  Drury)I ask the honourable member for Mitchell to keep within the terms of the Bill. 
Surely no man in this House who is aquainted with people who have Parkinson's disease would prevent me from telling those people that this wonderful drug is available. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Shipping and Transport who is representing the Minister for Trade and Industry. Is the Minister aware that the Japanese like our lamb and mutton to eat but that the odour created in cooking is nauseating to them? Is it possible for scientists to overcome this difficulty? Would it be possible to have the sheep dipped in the Yarra prior to export? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of residents of the State of Victoria respectfully showeth: 
That because of uncontrolled shooting for commercial purposes, the population of kangaroos, particularly the big red species, is now so low that they may become extinct. 
There are insufficient wardensin any State of the Commonwealth to detect or apprehend those who break the inadequate laws which exist. 
As a tourist attraction, the kangaroo is a permanent source of revenue to this country. 
It is an indisputable fact that no species can withstand hunting on such a scale, when there is no provision being made for its future. 
We, your petitioners, therefore humbly pray that: 
The export of kangaroo products be banned immediately, and the Commonwealth Government take the necessary steps to have all wildlifein Australia brought under its control. 
Only a complete cessation of killing for commercial purposes can save surviving kangaroos. And your petitioners, therefore, asin duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Trade and Industry. This garment, which I now show to the House, can be purchased in Australia for 49c after it has attracted a 50 per cent retail markup and a duty of 32 per cent- 
No. It has a bunny on it, something like you. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Primary Industry been drawn to the promotion of a new margarine pf stated American origin? Does he think that it is just coincidence that a section of the medical profession is now making a renewed attack on butter? Will the Minister state whether it has been established definitely that the intake of butter is a contributing factor to heart complaints? Is the Minister aware that I butter both sides of my toast, put buttered toast in my soup and spread butter on my meat and vegetables as did my antecedents, all of whom lived to be over 90 years of age? 
 I have listened to many stupid statements in this House but for arrant nonsense- 
As I was saying, for lack of knowledge and for arrant nonsense I have never heard anything worse than the speech of the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren).  Unfortunately, for the Australian Labor Party its spokesman condemns the Party out of his own mouth because ail the things of which he complained were initiated and developed by a Labor government in New South Wales. The entire situation about which the honourable member for Reid was speaking came about as a result of the advent of the Cumberland County Council. It initiated all the hocus pocus of zoning which created great land prices. What 1 am saying is correct, but I want to make it perfectly clear that the executive officers of the Cumberland County Council were not corrupt. The corruption from above and below was so great that the Labor Government of New South Wales had to supersede the Council with a State Planning Authority, but from the advent of the Cumberland County Council resulted ali the high prices for land in New South Wales. In 1951 a fairly large block of land in North Parramatta could be purchased for 250 - $500 nowadays. Even with increases in the basic wage it could now sell for about $2,000 to $2,500 but because of the advent of the Cumberland County Council with zoning and putting land under the counter and creating a black market, unfortunate Australians now have to pay from $6,000 to $8,000 for a block of land. That is Socialism and if anyone wants to know about it I am the man to see because I have lived with it and fought against it since 1951. 
Zoning is the trouble. People who knew what the Cumberland County Council was doing knew what areas were to be released. Anzacs including men of the 1st AIF who had lived in these areas for years were entitled to anything that they could get from the increased value of their land but the go-getters came in, bought the land and fleeced the public of their money. If honourable members want to know about socialisation and this planning they should speak to me and I will tell them all the truths about it. 
The amendment which was moved on behalf of the Opposition seeks to ensure that planning authorities are established or developed. The great evil came in New South Wales when the enormous suburban sprawl was permitted and when sewerage, electricity and water services had to be extended 30 miles from the heart of Sydney. What should have been done - and I stated this in 195 1 - was to establish 3 new cities in New South Wales. Port Stephens has the greatest harbour in the world and the Port Stephens area should have been developed as a city. Two or 3 cities should have been established instead of this enormous suburban sprawl. Hundreds of millions of dollars are being expended to develop roads within 5 and 6 miles of Sydney, thus propping up the. enormous concrete jungle and denying the right of Australians to a decent and goodly way of life. 
The present situation was brought about by a Labor government in New South Wales and by no-one else. It created Green Valley to which the honourable member for Reid referred. Fortunately, with the experience of Green Valley, the Mount Druitt area is better set out and the homes are of better construction. The average age of people residing in that area, including the children, is only 8 years. I am proud of those young people and I deprecate the phrase which was used by the honourable member for Reid to describe the people living in Green Valley and Mount Druitt. They are good young people who will make good. The environment has been improved. The churches are doing a wonderful joba job that the New South Wales Labor Government should have done. That Government did not establish swimming pools or recreation halls. It provided the people with nice homes but it did not give them amenities. The churches came in, God bless them. These young married people could not afford 20c to put on the church plate but the Church of England - the wealthy parishes - helped and a fine edifice has been erected and the rector is doing a marvellous job in trying to alleviate the difficulties that confront these young people. These difficulties would not be present if proper planning had taken place. 
Hundreds of thousands of blocks of land 4 and 5 miles closer to Sydney were available for development. Most of that land was in areas the streets of which were connected with electricity and some had reticulated water available. But did the Labor Government develop that land? No. It had to acquire 5 and 10-acre farms from people who were happy and contented in supplying vegetables for the Sydney market. Instead of developing other areas that had been divided some 30 or 40 years ago the Mount Druitt area had the misfortune to be ready for development in about 1914 when war broke out. At a time when there was a huge flow of migrants from England, the land was ready for development. After we got over the First World War we ran into the depression and then we had the Second World War. Large numbers of blocks of land still remain vacant but these farmlets have been taken over and all the work of putting in a reticulated water supply and other essential services has taken place at great expense. 
If we had been true to our trust we would have developed new cities. Surely there must be an economical city. What we have to boast about is that by the year 2000 Sydney will have 6 million or 7 million people. It is a crime and an utter disgrace that we are proud of such a thing when we could have given the people new cities with services radiating from the centre of the city. An economical city, I understand, contains about 2 million people. But we are building this huge concrete jungle and making the people travel, as the honourable member for Reid said, long distances to get to the city or to the seaside at a cost of something over $1. If there is to be any denunciation we should point the finger at the people who initiated this - the Labor Party of New South Wales, and no-one else. 
The honourable member for Reid spoke about the green belt. The city of Sydney is bounded by the Pacific Ocean, the great Hawkesbury River and the Great Dividing Range. Thousands of acres of land were declared to be green belt land. I know all about green belt land. None of that land is left now. What about the Marcus Clarke land? The New South Wales Labor Minister for Lands at the time said that the land would be there in perpetuity but within 12 months it was released from the green belt. 1 understand that the consideration was $500,000. Work that out and, if you can, deny the corruption and bribery that goes on. The people on their holdings do not know anything about these things but the other people know 2 years ahead what the zonings will be. The big people go out and buy up the land and they know that that it will be residential or industrial within about 2 years. But the Anzacs and those of the first Australian Imperial Forces, the old pioneers, never knew anything about this. 
I have written letters inquiring why land is declared residential or industrial at certain points. The purchasers do not go to the farmer who has a negative zoning. Instead they go to the people who have land in the green belt and buy it at a reduced price. If the honourable member for Reid wants the people of Australia to have a better way of life these are the sorts of things that he should tackle. He should not come in here and cackle about things in which he is not well versed and in which he has had no experience. 
The second part of the amendment moved by the Opposition reads: 
ensure that all lands vested in the States or Commonwealth will be retained and that private rights to such land is limited to leasehold. 
We in Australia have never wanted leasehold land. If honourable members were to see the homes which were built 80 or 90 years ago on leasehold land they would not have anything to do with it. We like to have our own land. We are entitled to our own fee simple. I trust that we always shall be. What incentive is there for a person during the latter years of a leasehold, unless it is in perpetuity which means almost the same as freehold, to worry about it? But who wants leasehold land? I suggest that honourable members have a look at areas such as Glebe and Merewether near Newcastle where land was under leasehold. Nothing was done to the cottages towards the end of the leasehold period and slum areas were created. This should not have occurred. 
I must say that I agree with the third part of the amendment which reads: 
Identify a number of appropriate sites for new cities and co-operate in their development. 
I think that is a wonderful idea. If the New South Wales Labor Party, the New South Wales State Planning Authority and the Cumberland County Council had taken notice of me in 1951 that position would obtain today. I want to say in passing that this is not a novel idea. In 1920 the Government of the day in New South Wales - I do not know whether it was a Labor or a Liberal government - went into the matter of establishing a harbour at Port Stephens. Thatwonderful harbour has been represented to me as the greatest natural habour in the world, much better than those in Sydney and San Francisco. If we had identified appropriate sites for new cities and radiated services into the hinterland the situation would have been much better than it is now. I agree with that part of the amendment but I think we have left it too late. Hundreds of millions of dollars have gone into propping up Sydney by the provision of fly-overs and extra laneways on roads which are now almost overcrowded. It has been just a waste of good money. 
To illustrate my point I refer to Paris. The old city of Paris has not been disturbed. A new city has been commenced some 25 kilometers from the old city. The new city is attached to the beautiful city of Paris proper and people travel by express underground railway from the new city. No Labor government could be expected to have the foresight which has been demonstrated in Paris. It is there to be seen by those who have eyes to see. 
Part (d) of the amendment reads: 
Assist in slum prevention and renewal. 
Everybody agrees with this objective but until we can catch up with our lack of housing facilities it is much better to leave this matter alone. Paddington was described as a slum at one time but because people moved into the area with new ideas and renovated the buildings, most people are now very honoured to live there. Some of the great architects in the world have said that the small cottages and two-storey buildings with brick walls are best suited for the climate in Australia. 
The last part of the amendment states that assistance should be given to appropriate bodies to carry out comprehensive urban improvement and development. Of course, no-one could have any grouch against that. We have endeavoured to make life in urban areas worthwhile for our estimable young people who are now having their first children, and we get great satisfaction in helping them. I am proud of the young people in the Mount 
Druitt area for the cleanliness of their homes and the neatness of themselves and of their children. There things give us great hope. I trust that something can be done to alleviate the position so that they do not have to travel long distances to swimming pools or to the seaside. They are excellent people and I am sure that they will form a great community in that area. 
I support the Bill which is only a simple Bill to confirm the payment under the old agreement. There was no need for this amendment but, having been moved, 1 thought I should express my ideas and feelings in regard to them. If the honourable member  fat  Reid wants to know anything about the construction and planning of new cities I will be pleased to assist him if he has any time available. 
I congratulate the honourable member for Mel* bourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  upon the thorough way in which he has gone into this matter. There is not very much we can say in regard to it. Qantas Airways Ltd has ordered 4 aeroplanes and, of necessity, they have to be paid for. The Loans (Qantas Airways Limited) Bill confirms the transaction. I agree with the honourable member for Melbourne Ports that we should have been able to expect some statement about the present position of Qantas. But as the good Book tells us, blessed be he that expecteth nothing for he shall not be disappointed. I do not think anyone can tell us the reason for what has happened to Qantas and the decline in the aircraft carrying trade. This phenomenon has come about so unexpectedly that not even those wretched things that most people put much confidence in but in which I have not been able to express so much confidence, namely computers, would have been able to foresee what has happened in the aircraft carrying industry. It is in a very difficult position. 
When I was first made aware of the payment required for the 4 jumbo jets, the immediate thought that came to my mind was: Can we get out of the deal? Is there an escape clause in the contract? It appeared to me to be folly to purchase something that, on present indications at any rate, would be an incubus on the already difficult state of affairs in which Qantas now finds itself. What are we to do? I suppose it is in the lap of the gods. We are to have an aeroplane that will carry three times the number of people that can be carried by the aircraft now operating. Australia has .a . meagre population of 12 million as against the huge population of America, and it. will be hardly feasible or possible for our aeroplanes to leave their home base filled, to near the same capacity as their American, counterparts. We are facing a very, difficult period. It will require all the wisdom and understanding of the biggest business men in Australia to see us through, this period. But in the meantime, of course, that does not make people travel. 
I wish I could offer some solution or theory for this quick downturn in aircraft passenger trade. It almost defies theories or the working out of principles. Maybe it is a phenomenon that has come about and, just as locusts come and locusts go, it will disappear. We hope so. It may have been brought about, for the want of a better expression, by an attitude of easy come, easy go. Qantas was our great flag carrier. It received all our approbation. People on all sides of the community were proud of this great company, which carried the Australian flag through many' lands of the world and which has had 'an almost accident free record. They were proud of the crews who had previously served with great honour and great, distinction in the Royal Australian Air Force. These men who served their country so well were the nucleus of the air crews that have brought such praise and admiration from people throughout the world for' the great service they have built up and fr the great organisation of Qantas. 
News of the present predicament of Qantas has come as a great shock to us because we thought tha"! Qantas could never fail. I remember being in England when the Rolls-Royce organisation failed, and some friends of mine in Stroud, in Gloucestershire, said in their Gloucestershire way: 'When Rolls-Royce fails it is nearly as bad as losing our Queen'. I suppose that when we know the state of affairs in which Qantas now finds itself we are entitled to adopt a similar frame of mind, because this company represented something great and unique in a new method of transportation. Now we have arrived at this stage, it will require determination and co-operation from all segments of the industry to overcome the difficulties! We must not overlook the great defence value of Qantas. It may be better if I did not say anything further about this aspect because I do not know how restricted is the information about Qantas in regard to defence. But the wonderful job that it does in servicing Air Force machines, I daresay, is known to most people. I sympathise with the Minister in the predicament in which he now finds himself, but I am sure that the Australian character will predominate and that we will prove again that once we get our backs to the wall we can fight ourselves out of a very difficult position. 
The honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  commenced his speech by saying that he could not understand the Bill, despite his great intelligence which I appreciate and admire. But later he gave a clear definition of what the Bill intended to do. So he really contradicted himself by saying that he could not understand it and later giving a clear definition of the intention of the Bill. I congratulate him. I thought that he would be able to understand it and that his opening phrase was just to attract attention for the time being. The purpose of the Bill is clear. Unless a great surplus of funds is collected through taxation or unless some other money which had not been expected comes into the hands of the Government, Bills such as this will be required because, with the huge amounts of revenue and expenditure involved, it would be nearly impossible to anticipate exactly to the last cent just how much money would be required. 
The Bill authorises the Treasurer to borrow from the Reserve Bank of Australia the difference between the amount of money available and that required to pay  the commitments that have accrued since the Budget which was introduced last August. Let me list some of these extra payments. They include $60m to compensate the States for loss of receipts duty revenues. This amount may have been anticipated at the time of the last Budget, but it was not definite and could not be included, in the Budget. Other items include. $43m in additional assistance to the States to help with their budgetary difficulties and about $25m in increased financial  assistance  grants arising from the effect on the formula determined grants of the higher than anticipated increase in wage rates. In all, payments to or- for the States are now expected to exceed the Budget Estimates by the order of $132m. 
The Government has gone a long way towards assisting the States in their budgetary difficulties and the increased wages that they have been required to pay over the year: Additional -payments have been made to the Australian Wool Commission. I fervently hope that the money that is being paid to the Commission will be used to advantage. The Government expects advantages to accrue from the establishment of the Commission. I have doubts in my mind as to whether this money is being spent wisely and as to whether it would not be expended better in rehabilitating people who are now on the land and living under very difficult conditions. In this case' the money being made available to the Commission is giving many farmers false hopes. Statements are made frequently to the effect that there is a silver lining in the clouds somewhere. These people, being determined Australians, think that if there is a chance of succeeding they will remain. This is unfortunate, because many of these people would have left the land of their own volition and would have been better employed and leading happier and better lives in other circumstances. I make that comment in passing. 
The Bill is necessary for the payments to the Public Service and other payments that are required to be made before 30th June. As the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  stated, it is, a machinery Bill. I trust that when the honourable member for Adelaide comes out fighting next time he will have something more definite to go on and something more to put his teeth into. There is very little for him to do so in this Bill. The Bill is not a blank cheque, as the honourable member for Adelaide stated. The purpose of the Bill is simply to find' money for carry-on purposes. Most big businesses require this from time to time. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Labour and National Service. I refer to the strike programme yesterday by unions in the power industry in New South Wales in support of a 35-hour working week. Is this not an example of increasing industrial lawlessness over an issue which, if introduced,  woud  be economic madness, particularly at the present time? 
It is a great. pity that the Australian Labor Party devoted all its energies to procedural matters this morning and did not display more vigour and enterprise in this matter this afternoon. Of course, the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  and the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Webb)  have both shown keen interest in compensation matters and are to be congratulated. The Bill applies to members of the defence forces - members of the Royal Australian Navy, the Army and the Royal Australian Air Force - in the same way as it applies to all other Commonwealth employees, except that it does not apply in situations where a member of the defence forces is covered in relation to the service involved under the Repatriation Act. 
To overcome difficulties that have been encountered iri applying the existing Act to members of the 3 armed Services, special provisions have been included in the Bill. These relate to attendance in camps, and to the journey provisions. Under sub-clause (5) of clause 8 of the Bill, the attendance of a serviceman at times when he is not at liberty to absent himself from any place, such as a ship, camp or barracks, is deemed to be employment. In other words, he will be in the course of his employment and thus under the cover provided in the Bill while so attending. Similarly, any employee, including a serviceman, will be covered by the Bill while in attendance at his place of employment at any time, whether or not he is free to leave, provided that the attendance is reasonably incidental to his employment. Since the attendances referred to above are deemed to be employment and the serviceman or employee so involved is automatically in the course of his employment while so attending, it has, however, been provided in sub-clause (6.) of clause 8 that the section does not render the Commonwealth liable to pay compensation in respect of an injury sustained during such an attendance if the injury was sustained by reason of the fact that the serviceman or employee had voluntarily and unreasonably subjected himself to an abnormal risk of injury. Otherwise there would be a wider cover during off-duty hours than the normal cover provided to an employee while he is on duty. 
The journey provisions in clause 34 are of particular interest to members of the armed Services. This clause extends the normal journey provisions under clause 32 relating to travel to and from work to include also a journey to and from living accommodation, other than separate living accommodation such as married quarters. The extension covers a journey to, say, a camp where the journey ends - or, but for an injury, would have ended - between the time his period of liberty or leave expires and 8 p.m. on the evening of the previous day. In other words, he will be covered for  a  journey that will get him back to camp in time to have a night's sleep before resuming duty the next morning and will still be regarded as travelling to his employment. Likewise, on a journey from  a  camp he will be covered for a journey that commences before 9 a.m. on the morning of the day following the begin ning of his period of liberty or leave. This means that if his leave commences at, say, 5 p.m. today he will be able to sleep in the camp tonight and, providing he commences his journey from the camp by 9 o'clock in the morning, the journey will be regarded as a journey from his employment. 
There are, of course, further extensions to cover travel by the last available transport to a camp or the first available transport from a camp, in the same way as the last or first available transport provisions are applied to employees other than servicemen. The honourable member for Hindmarsh referred to the sad occurrence of a man being killed away from his home town. An amount of $300 is allowed towards the cost of bringing the body back to its home town, and the amount is not taken into consideration for funeral expenses. A comparison was made between South Australia and the Commonwealth in regard to compensation. The maximum limit on incapacity payments under South Australian legislation is $12,000, or $15,000 if totally and permanently incapacitated. There is no limit under the Commonwealth Bill. Another comparison was made. For a married man the upper limit under South Australian legislation is $65, irrespective of the number of children he has. Under the Commonwealth legislation a man and wife with 4 children receive $63.50, with 5 children they receive $68.50, and then there is a progressive increase for other children. 
The Bill is quite remarkable. I congratulate the Minister on bringing in another successful Bill. But there are certain areas of which I would like to speak. Let me refer to servicemen who are sent to non-war zones outside Australia, such as Singapore, Malaysia, Papua New Guinea and other places. The Repatriation Act applies in some areas in Malaysia. Servicemen are sent to these areas where motor vehicle and third party insurance does not apply. These men go to these places under directions from the Commonwealth Government. Their position should not be in any way lessened because we have sent them there. If they meet with a motor car accident, the advantages they would obtain in Australia through third party insurance should apply or they should be covered by the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Act. 
Let me refer to another section of servicemen - men who have been accepted by the Services, who have passed the medical test and who at a later date suffer from a condition which is diagnosed as congenital although they did not know of it as such. I know of many of these cases. The medical officers who examined these men did not find congenital situations at the time, and when these men meet with accidents and suffer greatly they are not compensated under the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Act. I think that this is quite wrong. If the Services accept a man and he afterwards suffers from a condition, whether it is congenital or not, he should be compensated. Several cases have been brought to my attention. In one case a man had served in the Air Force for quite a number of years and was eventually discharged as suffering from epilepsy. When he applied for a position he found it very difficult to get a civilian position and he had to work in lesser circumstances than those in which his ability would entitle him to work. Two years after having private consultations it was found that he did not suffer from epilepsy but that he bad a hole in the heart. This man had been accepted by the Air Force, had served regularly and then had fainting turns. This was diagnosed as epilepsy. It was proved afterwards that the whole time he had suffered from a heart condition that he did not know of and which the examination for entry to the Air Force did not reveal. This man suffered a great deal. 
Let rae refer to third party insurance and the Workers' Compensation Act. I refer to the case of a young man who was knocked down by a semitrailer in New Guinea. It has cost him over $2,000 in medical expenses because he was off duty at the time. I think that he would possibly have been covered had the Act as it. will now be amended been in operation then. The one regret that I have is that the Act has not been made retrospective in regard to servicemen serving overseas. I commend the Minister for his efforts and I trust that it will not be very long before we have a complete review of this legislation, which goes quite a long way but not as far as I would like it to go. 
-I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Petition of the undersigned showeth: 
That the Australian people both in Metropolitan and Ruralareas should have the best of television programmes available to them and that television as a powerful means of communication should not be in the control of too few hands. 
The increased quota for Austraiian dramatic productions should not be imposed by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board at the expense of Australian professional variety or Australian documentary or educational programmes, but directed more towards cutting down expenditure on the purchase of imported productions, thus effecting a considerable saving in Australia's overseas balance of payments. 
The Australian Parliament has a responsibility to encourage the development of our National identity, character and heritage and the promulgation, for the sake of our children, of an adequate picture of Australia, her standards, morals, and way of life, particularly through the media of Radio and Television, which is in the immediate control of the Australian Government. 
Until constructive and positive action is taken by the Australian Government to promote Australian culture and protect the employment and professional standards of Australian writers, artists and producers in Australia itself there is little likelihood of stopping the flow of Australian talent from Australia to other countries. 
The Australian Broadcasting Control Board must insist that its new quota standards of Australian dramatic content on television are rigidly imposed and enforced on all commercial television stations. 
Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives, in Parliament assembled, should - 
Cause the Australian Government to recognise the right of Australian professional people engaged in the creative and performing arts to further develop their skills and talents in Australia, and to be protected from overseas programmes in a way that will encourage an Australian Television and Radio industry that can reflect and contribute to our identity and growth as a Nation. 
And your Petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following  petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned showeth: 
That the Australian people both in metropolitan and rural areas should have the best of television programmes available to them and thattelevision as a powerful means of communication should not be in the control of ton few hands. 
The increased quota for Australian dramatic productions should not be imposed bythe Australian Broadcasting Control Board at the expense of Australian professional variety or Australian documentary or educational programmes, but directed more towards cutting down expenditure on the purchase of imported productions, thus effectinga considerable saving in Australia's overseas balance of payments. 
The Australian Parliament has a responsibility to encourage the development of our national identity, character and heritage and the promulgation, for the sake of our children, of an adequate picture of Australia, her standards, mores and way of life, particularly through the media of radio and television, which is in the immediate control of the Australian Government. 
Until constructive and positive action is taken by the Australian Government to promote Australian culture and protect the employment and professional standards of Australian writers, artists and producers in Australia itself there is little likelihood of stopping the flow of Australian talent from Australia to other countries. 
The Australian Broadcasting Control Board must insist that its new quota standards of Australian dramatic content on television are rigidly imposed and enforced on all commercial television stations. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled, should - 
Cause the Australian Government to recognise the right of Australian professional people engaged in the creative and performing arts to further develop their skills and talents in Australia, and to be protected from overseas programmes in a way that will encourage an Australian television and radio industry that can reflect and contribute to our identity and growth as a nation. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I ask the Prime Minister whether he is gratified at the fact that 52.2 per cent of people are satisfied with him as Prime Minister. Has he noted the poor showing of 35.8 per cent achieved by the Leader of the Opposition in his handling of his position? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned showeth: 
That the Austraiian people both in Metropolitan and Rural areas should have the best of television programmes available to them and that television as a powerful means of communication should not be in the control of too few hands. 
The increased quota for Australian dramatic productions should not be imposed by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board at the expense of Australian professional variety or Australian documentary or educational programmes, but directed more towards cutting down expenditure on the purchase of imported productions, thus effecting a considerable saving in Australia's overseas balance of payments. 
The Australian Parliament has a responsibility to encourage the development of our National identity, character and heritage and the promulgation, for the sake of our children, of an adequate picture of Australia, her standards, mores and way of life, particularly through the media of Radio and Television, which is in the immediate control of the Australian Government. 
Until constructive and positive action is taken by the Australian Government to promote Australian culture and protect the employment and professional standards of Australian writers, artists and producers in Australia itself there is little likelihood of stopping the flow of Australian talent from Australia to other countries. 
The Australian Broadcasting Control Board must insist that its new quota standards of Australian dramatic content on television are rigidly imposed and enforced on all commercial television stations. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives, in Parliament assembled, should - 
Cause the Australian Government to recognise the right of Australian professional people engaged in the creative and performing arts to further develop their skills and' talents in Australia, and to be protected from overseas programmes in a way that will encourage an Australian Television and Radio industry that can reflect and contribute to our identity and growth as a Nation. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Is the Postmaster-General aware of the fear and apprehension of actors and producers that the increased 
Australian content of television and radio programmes, which was promised to take place on 21st September 1971, is not likely to eventuate? Can the Minister give any assurance on this matter? 
-I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned showeth: 
That the Australian people both in Metropolitan and rural areas should have the best of television programmes available to them and that television as a powerful means of communication should not be in the control of too few hands. 
The increased quota for Australian dramatic productions should not be imposed by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board at the expense of Australian professional variety or Australian documentary or educational programmes, but directed more towards cutting down expenditure on the purchase of imported productions, thus effecting a considerable saving in Australia's overseas balance of payments. 
The Australian Parliament has a responsibility to encourage the development of our National identity, character and heritage and the promulgation, for the sake of our children, of an adequate picture of Australia, her standards, mores and way of life, particularly through the media of Radio and Television, which is in the immediate control of the Australian Government. 
Until constructive and positive action is taken by the Australian Government to promote Australian culture and protect the employment and professional standards of Australian writers, artists and producers in Australia itself there is little likelihood of stopping the flow of Australian talent from Australia to other countries. 
The Australian Broadcasting Control Board must insist that its new quota standards of Australian dramatic content on television are rigidly imposed and enforced on all commercial television stations. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives, in Parliament assembled, should - 
Cause the Australian Governmentto recognise the right of Australian professional people engaged in the creative and performing arts to further develop their skills and talents in Australia, and to be protected from overseas programmes in a way that will encourage an Australian Television and Radio industry that can reflect and contribute to our identity and growth as a Nation. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I support the motion and oppose the amendment. I do so because the experiment we have had with sitting times has been useless, and the present system has proved to us that it is not an efficient way of conducting the business of the Parliament. I think I might have supported the present system, having had regard to the long distances to be travelled by honourable members who live in northern Queensland and Western Australia. But the present sitting arrangements are not satisfactory. On the Mondays that the House does not sit during a normal sitting week one can do some work in the electorate. The worst feature of the whole set-up has been the disorganised Friday about which the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  spoke. On Friday nobody appeared to be able to settle down to the business of Parliament, and those of us who live in nearby areas were expected to remain here and make sure that a quorum was in attendance. Wc were pleased to do that so that those honourable members who have to travel long distances could get home on the Saturday at least and have a few hours with their families. 
Coming to the suggestion that at 10 o'clock the question that the House do now adjourn be put, let us be honest and sincere. We all knew what to expect when we came here. If we are to quibble about staying here occasionally until 1 o'clock or 2 o'clock in the morning I think we should consider whether we should be here or whether we should engage in some other vocation back home. Parliament has been conducted in this way for many years. It is only occasionally that it is necessary to sit until 2 o'clock in the morning, and any honourable member who complains about that - I have no reservations in regard to this matter - should never have sought election to Parliament. Honourable members should be prepared to make (his sacrifice. 
Three sitting days in a week are sufficient. Unfortunately we cannot sit on Tuesday morning because of the Cabinet arrangements and because of consideration for those honourable members who travel long distances to get to Canberra. They are not in the same position as those of us who live in the capital cities. The experiment with sitting times has proved unsatisfactory, and at times on the Friday that the House has sat I have been ashamed of what has occurred. It has not occurred wittingly, but it has not been in the best interests of Parliament. I am in favour of the motion and I strenuously oppose the amendment and the suggested amendment to provide that we meet on Tuesday mornings. (Quorum formed.) 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned showeth: 
That the Australian people both in metropolitan and rural areas should have the best of television programmes available to them and that television as a powerful means of communication should not be in the control of too few hands. 
The increased quota for Australian dramatic productions should not be imposed by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board at the expense of Australian professional variety or Australian documentary or educational programmes, but directed more towards cutting down expenditure on the purchase of imported productions, thus effecting a considerable saving in Australia's overseas balance of payments. 
The Australian Parliament has a responsibility to encourage the development of our national identity, character and heritage and the promulgation, for the sake of our children, of an adequate picture of Australia, her standards, mores and way of life, particularly through the media of radio and television, which is in the immediate control of the Australian Government. 
Until constructive and positive action is taken by the Australian Government to promote Australian culture and protect the employment and professional standards of Australian writers, artists and producers in Australia itself there is little likelihood of stopping the flow of Australian talent from Australia to other countries. 
The Australian Broadcasting Control Board must insist that its new quota standards of Australian dramatic content on television are rigidly imposed and enforced on all commercial television stations. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives, in Parliament assembled, should: 
Cause the Australian Government to recognise the right of Australian professional people engaged in the creative and performing arts  to  further develop their skills and talents in Australia, and to be protected from overseas programmes in a way that will encourage an Australian television and radio industry that can reflect and contribute to our identity and growth asa nation. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Last night we heard from a combination in one piece the Leader of the Opposition - barrister cum economist. Seldom if ever do the two combine. They are not compatible. It was evident from the delivery of his speech that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  was not its author.  His  presentation showed indelibly that he did not comprehend what he was reading. He chided the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  in regard to payroll tax and passed some paltry taunt that the Prime Minister's law was not comparable with the Prime Minister's economics. It must be remembered that the most notable legal achievement of the Leader of the Opposition was to have 4 tenants evicted from their homes so that a wealthy concern could erect a chain store where these people were living. 
The Leader of the Opposition spoke of a national health scheme. Of course, as Leader of the Opposition he can promise anything. If we were a settled community, of course we could establish a national superannuation fund. Where we have a continued influx of people of varying ages, some of them in the 50 to 60 age group, it is most difficult to establish a superannuation scheme. However, problems exist to be overcome. It is a matter that should be and is receiving the attention of the Government and the Government Members Social Services Committee. It may be that over a period of years a sum, say $10Om could be set aside annually to create the foundation for a superannuation fund. It was not the Leader of the Opposition's day yesterday. Immediately following him in the debate was the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  who in the limited time available to him literally slayed the Leader of the Opposition. Then we heard from the honourable member for Melbourne 
Ports  (Mr Crean).  Although one may not always agree with him, one must concede that the honourable member for Melbourne Ports does know his subject. I agree with him that fringe banking and the hire purchase companies should be under stricter control than they are now. They are the evils that were a natural corollary of the control of banking whereby the banks have now been reduced to impotency, thereby reducing the Government's monetary influence and control. 
Reverting to the superannuation fund, there would be few people in Australia who would have the knowledge and the desire that the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  has to establish a superannuation scheme. He has given many years to thought and experimentation in regard to this. He will continue his work on this aspect until he brings in a scheme worthy of Australia. 
The one aspect of the Treasurer's Budget in which I have a special interest is the new provision for housing. I commend the Government for increasing from $8,000 to $9,000 the maximum loan that may be made available under the War Service Homes Act. This is a provision that will be welcomed by ex-servicemen throughout the country. The provision of $60m this year for war service homes represents a significant contribution to the construction and purchase of homes in this country. The generous terms of war service home loans are of tremendous assistance to exservicemen. With many servicemen soon to return from their very gallant and honourable service in Vietnam, no doubt there will be a continuing demand for this facility for many years into the future. 
I congratulate the recently appointed Minister for Housing on the new assistance that the Commonwealth has offered to the States for housing purposes. This offer takes 3 forms and, I believe, represents a major improvement on the previous assistance given by the Commonwealth. The provision of a cumulative grant of $2. 75m a year payable over 30 years in respect of State housing activity commits the Commonwealth to pay an amount of some $4J0ra to the States. I particularly welcome the Government's decision to make a grant of $ 1.25m a year for each of the next 5 years  as a  contribution towards the cost to the 
States of reduced rents for families regarded as being in need of this assistance. The States will determine which families are to receive it. This grant will be worth more than $450,000 to my own State of New South Wales during the current financial year. Rents being paid by families in the major cities, particularly in Sydney and its surrounding suburbs, are often a great financial burden. This new measure will provide some relief for needy families. I hope that families in need in the electorate of Mitchell will be granted some of this assistance. 
The decision of the Federal Government to relieve the States of the need to use a portion of their housing funds for building homes for serving members of the armed forces is most welcome. The Commonwealth has undertaken to meet the needs of Service housing. This policy will make more funds available to the housing bodies in each State to help them meet the pressing needs of civilian housing. It can be fairly said that the housing provisions in this Budget represent a new approach. I am very pleased that the approach is much improved and is one which will benefit many people. I congratulate the Minister and feel sure that the State Ministers responsible for the housing will be pleased with the extra assistance which is now offered. 
I turn now to the Budget provisions in respect of social services. The social service provisions of any budget are always watched more closely by more people than is any other aspect of that document. This is not surprising considering how many people are affected directly by what appears in the Budget each year. This year in excess of 1 million people will benefit to some extent from the increases in pensions while, in addition, the increases in child endowment will be paid in respect of more than 1 million children. Social service and repatriation benefits this year constitute the largest single item of Government expenditure. In all, these measures, taken together with other matters of a welfare nature, will involve an expenditure in excess of $2,000m. 
I should like to comment specifically on 2 matters of great concern - the age pension and assistance to families with children. 
When we take into consideration the 2 pension increases this year, that is, the extra 50c granted in April and the $1.25 weekly proposed in the Budget, we see that the increase in pensions in the last financial year represents the largest increase ever granted in such a short period. The new standard rate of pension will be $17.25 a week - the highest ever. What is more important is that the real value of the pension has shown a substantial increase also. In the last financial year the consumer price index recorded an increase of 5.4 per cent, while the standard rate of pension increased by 11.3 per cent - more than double the increase in the consumer price index. Given all the pressures on the Government to reduce its expenditure in order to combat inflation, I think this is a good achievement. It is not only the standard pension rate in which this development appears. The same also may be said to apply to the married rate and the rate of payments for widows and invalids. 
I know that the Minister has always been very conscious of the problems faced by families with children, and I congratulate him on the provisions made for such families in this Budget. I am sure that every family will appreciate the rise in the rate of child endowment for the third and subsequent children that this Budget provides. A family of 4 children now receives $5.75 a week in child endowment, and it may be as well to remember that child endowment itself is one of the many innovations in the field of social services that was made originally by a Liberal government. I am particularly delighted to note the great increase given in children's allowances so as to provide the payment of $4.50 for each child. This benefit will be of enormous assistance to all those pensioners and widows with dependent children, and indicates the concern of this Government to provide for their welfare and assistance. The last thing I might mention in respect of social services is the extent to which pensioners benefit from their special concessions in matters such as transport, pharmaceutical costs and postal concessions. The pensioner still has to pay only $4.00 for a combined radio and television licence, despite the fact that the general cost of such a licence has risen from $20 to $26.50. I shall deal with that aspect during the debate on the Estimates. So. the value of the concession itself has actually risen by $6.50 from $16 to $22.50. Similar rises in the value of concessions are apparent in other licences and in telephone charges. I feel sure that the community appreciates that this Government has done a remarkable job in providing for such substantial increases in social services at the same time as it is grappling with the problems of inflation, and would like to join with me in paying tribute to the efforts of the Minister who, as we all know, is always most sympathetic towards the needs of those in hardship, and most active and diligent on their behalf. He, of course, would have liked to have gone further - we all would - 'but he has done a good job and I congratulate him. 
The honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  spoke about percentages. I like the honourable member very much - he is sincere - but I think that it would be much better if he kept to surgery and away from economics, because when dealing with percentages the first thing we must ask is: 'Percentages of what?'. He compared pensions as a percentage of the average wage today with the corresponding figure during one of the lowest wage eras of this country, after the Second World War when the was much unemployment. My Party came to government because of the unemployment and the very low wages that were being earned at that time. The average wage was extremely low, and 27 per cent of the average wage then, which represented the amount of the pension that was being paid, was very low. Twenty per cent of the average wage now is much higher. 
As high as this is, there is no person on either side of the House who would not like to be able to pay these people a higher pension. We must consider all the circumstances. Many unionists and many of the employees about whom the Leader of the Opposition spoke so disparagingly last night, have come to see me. I see no dishonour in being an employee. I think that the Good Book tells us that it is an honourable estate. These people have been the pioneers of Australia. Whatever we are able to give them, we should be pleased to give them. I trust that the amount they receive from time to time will enable them to live in the dignity that we as Australians would like them to have. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of 11 electors of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth - 
that the United Nations General Assembly Resolution 2603 XXIV A (December 1969) declares that the Geneva Protocol of 192S, which Australia has ratified, prohibits the use in international armed conflict of any chemical agents of warfare - chemical substances whether gaseous, liquid or solid - employed for their direct toxic effects on man, animals or plants; 
that the World Health Organisation Report (January 1970) confirms the above definition of chemical agents of warfare; 
that the Australian Government does not accept this definition, but holds that the Geneva Protocol does not prevent the use in war of certain toxic chemical substances in the form of herbicides, defoliants and 'riotcontrol' agents. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray - 
that the Parliament take note of the consensus of international political, scientific and humanitarian opinion; and 
that honourable members urge upon the Government the desirability of revising its interpretation of the Geneva Protocol, and declaring that it regards all chemical substances employed for their toxic effect on man, animals or plants as being included in the prohibitions laid down by that Protocol. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I rise to support the Social Services Bill and oppose the amendment moved by the Opposition. I congratulate the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  for all the effort he has applied in this instance. Of course, we on this side of the House would have liked the Bill to go further but the Minister has endeavoured to meet the situation where the need is greatest. The Opposition has made great play of a national superannuation fund. It is, of course, easy for the Opposition to promise something it knows full well it will never have to inaugurate. The Opposition works on hypothetical figures with never a chance of creating a scheme that will stand investigation by actuaries and mathematicians. The Government Members Social Services Committee has been working on the production of  a  national superannuation fund since and before I entered this House in 1963. The present Minister for Social Services, who is a mathematician of no mean ability and at one time was economic adviser to the New South Wales Government, presented  2  schemes to the Committee in 1965. The first dealt with annuities which are popular and accepted in other countries but not in Australia. As a bank manager I had many inquiries from people wishing to protect themselves after their retirement. The first difficulty was the provision of money value say some 30 years after they purchased an annuity or subscribed for an annuity over a period. The other difficulty was that an annuity ends with the death of the beneficiary. Most Australians could not accede to this. They always desired to be able to provide or leave their dependants some money and for this reason annuities have never taken on to the extent here that they have overseas. 
The other scheme propounded by the present Minister for Social Services was a straightout superannuation fund. He had put much time and work into setting up the framework of such a fund. As I remember it, it was the first 3 or  4  years of such a fund that caused the difficulty in implementing the scheme. It would not be possible or desirable for  2  schemes to be operating or running at the same time. It would have to be one or the other - a pension scheme such as we now have or a superannuation fund. As I pointed out in my address on the Budget, we have difficulty in establishing a superannuation fund in Australia because we are not a settled community. The influx of adult people each year in the middle age group and beyond offers some difficulty but not an insurmountable difficulty. A great many people are covered by private superannuation funds in Australia and it would be difficult for the Government to match these funds. Some of the private superannuation funds have been in force for over 100 years and their accumulated funds are tremendous. These funds have been built up by contributions from employees and are heavily subsidised by employers. The pension paid is supplemented by the employers to ensure that its purchasing power is equal to that of the original pension paid for on retirement. 
Some years ago Australia had a social services tax. I do not know exactly why it was suspended but had the money raised by the tax been set aside and wisely invested it would now have proved a foundation on which to set up a superannuation fund. The honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  spoke disparagingly of what he called privately owned insurance companies. The major insurance companies in Australia - of course, I am referring to life assurance - with the exception of the Mutual Life and Citizens Assurance Co. Ltd are all mutual companies or associations which means that their entire funds are held for the benefit of the policy holders. No profits or dividends are paid to anyone. Each year a bonus is declared and added to the amount insured which is payable at the termination of the policy, either at death or at a specified age. However, the companies do grant loans against what they call the surrender value of a policy. 
One thing that stands out like a beacon is that whatever the Government legislates to do or to pay to pensioners, it will do. It will not be pie in the sky as is offered by the Opposition. I congratulate the Minister for Social Services but, as I have mentioned, 1 would have liked the Bill to have gone further especially in regard to those people who are subject to the means test. However, it must always be remembered that it was this Government which first brought in the merged means test and, latterly, the tapered means test whereby a married couple, with means as assessed up to $65 a week, would attract a part pension until such time as the income with means as assessed reached  $70  a week when the pension would cease. This is a good effort which has been initiated by this Government and I am positive that this position will improve gradually to the point when the only people excluded will be those whose incomes make them independent of any assistance the Government is providing. To shout from the housetops that the means test will be abolished in its entirety is so much hogwash and kite flying- This Government is out to assist where the need is the greatest and progressively to improve the position of those people. I state unequivocally and without any reservation that to abolish the means test in its entirety can be done only at the expense of those people deserving our greatest attention and those who are in the greatest need. 
We heard a clamour some years ago and even up to 1969 that the pension should be equated to the consumer price index. Had the Government done this, pensioners over a number of years would have been $2 to $3 worse off each week. The basic pension is considerably higher than it was at this time last year. That is good, but I would like to see it further improved. However, it is higher than it has ever been in the history of Australia. The increase in the consumer price index during 1970-71 was 5.4 per cent. The standard rate pension rose during the same period by 11.3 per cent, from $15.50 to $17.25 and the married rate pension by 10.9 per cent, from $13.75 to $15.25. In his second reading speech the Minister for Social Services said: 
Ever since 1949, when Labor lost office, the trend has been to increase pension rates faster than prices, so that the real value of the pension continues to rise. If the old Chifley pension had been adjusted strictly in accordance with prices, it would today be only $10.80 a week. The difference between that figure and the rates now proposed is one measure of the increase in the real value of the pension during this period. It does not, of course, measure the whole of the improvement, since in addition we have brought in supplementary assistance and extra allowances for children, besides introducing new fringe benefits whose average value is of the order of $5  a  week. 
I am sure that the Minister would have liked to have gone further in this legislation. But the facts of life have to be faced. In the circumstances, I congratulate him on the measure that he has introduced into the House. 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Navy. Can the Minister tell the House whether any alternative billeting accommodation has been found for chief petty officers, petty officers and seamen who have been required to find outside lodgings while HMAS 'Vampire' is being refitted in Melbourne? Does the Minister agree with my contention that it costs more to sleep than to eat, especially in Melbourne? 
I support this Bill. It goes part of the way towards helping to alleviate the damage caused by war to men's minds, bodies and souls. Never before or since the first great conflict of World War I has man been called upon to endure the terrors, hardship, confusion, frustration, pain, filth and vermin-infested environment which were endured by the men who fought in that great holocaust. A great number of these men, but for 7 days leave annually or evacuation from the war zone because of injury or of wounds, suffered this veritable hell for the whole period from 1914 to 1918. The Second World War was fought in a different manner but nevertheless the men had to suffer much hardship and privation, and the civilian population was more involved than it had been in the First World War. 
I mention these things because from time to time one hears remarks grudgingly expressed about pensions granted to returned servicemen. I state categorically that whatever pension we grant to exservicemen and women, especially those totally and permanently incapacitated, they are justly entitled to, and a grateful nation should be proud to grant it. War widows must never be equated with other widows, because their husbands died either while actually defending Australia or of wounds or illness contracted on service. What I have stated in regard to war widows must not be construed to mean that fair and equitable pensions should not be paid to civilian widows. On the contrary, I support any adjustment and increase we can give. 
The onus of proving that an injury or illness is war-caused is a difficulty and a hazard for the ex-servicemen. In the light of events that have occurred, and the effluxion of time, the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten)  should give further consideration to this matter. I know that the appeal boards and tribunals are scrupulously fair, but their decisions must be made in accordance with the Act and regulations. 
Over the years I have been able to assist many returned servicemen, more particularly those who were gassed but who continued on duty. By 1917-18 the whole of northern France, especially around Villers.Bretonneux, Albert, Armiens and Amentiers and even the dugouts in which these men slept, was impregnated with gas. Is it any wonder that in after years they were afflicted with bronchial, respiratory and lung complaints? The improvements to the pensions and allowances will benefit the more seriously disabled ex-servicemen, the widows and the children. The Bill provides for an increased payment to exservicemen who are totally incapacitated, to those who have related disabilities or tuberculosis, to those whose incapacity allows them to work only intermittently, to those who need the assistance of an attendant, to those who have lost a limb or an eye and also to war widows. 
The total and permanent incapacity pension will be increased by $3.50 a week to $42.50 a week. The intermediate rate, for those who can work only part time, will be increased by $1.75 a week to $30.25 a week. The attendant's allowance will be $16 a week - an increase of $2 a week. The lower rate of $8.50 a week paid :o those who are blind or paralysed or have had a severe amputation will be increased to $9.50 a week. Those amputees who have always been paid the equivalent of the special TPI rate will receive an increase of $3.50 a week. Amounts which are, in addition to pension, payable in respect of other amputations or the loss of an eye will be increased by various amounts according to the degree of incapacity suffered. The new amount payable will range from $1.70 a week to SI 1.20 a week. War widows pensions will be increased by $1.25 a week to SI 7.25 a week. The children's allowance will be $7 a week; an orphan child - when both the father and the mother have died - will be paid $14 a week. 
Pensions have been increased. This demonstrates again the Government's sincerity in regard to Service personnel. Its treatment of ex-service men and women is better than, if not superior to, the treatment afforded to ex-service men and women by most other countries. I am pleased that the Government has decided to set up an independent committee of inquiry into all phases of repatriation. 1 trust that it will be set up without further delay so that its report can be analysed and acted upon before the next Budget. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  became entangled with percentages. That is a weak reed upon which to rest. If one relates a figure to a small amount the percentage is higher than if one relates that figure to a larger amount. One is to 2 is 50 per cent; one is to 3 is 334 per cent; one is to 4 is 25 per cent. That shows how quickly the percentage diminishes when the amount is increased. As I advised the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  recently, when one speaks of percentages one should always state to what the percentages are related and what comparisons one is drawing. 
In regard to the figures that the Deputy Leader of the Opposition quoted, wages were lower at the time to which he referred than they are now. Therefore, the percentages were much higher. The Government, in reply to the Deputy Leader of the Opposition said it is not responsible for the grading or reclassification of repatriates. This is done by the boards and tribunals and although at times we feel very dissatisfied with their assessment of some of these people whom it endeavours to assist from time to time, the Board and tribunals are composed of men of great reputation, of great honour and of great capacity. They judge and assess the position only according to the evidence before them. 
I had a returned soldier come to me who was gassed on 17th June 1917. For 20 years he had been endeavouring to get a pension, i told him to go home and bring back to me everything he had on the matter. Looking through the back of one of his pay books I saw an entry '17.6.17 Slightly gassed, continued on duty', and there was no doubt about the signature A. W. Smith' which was all the way down the column. Of course, he got his TPI pension immediately but because the onus of proof was on him and the man's inability to express himself and to organise the evidence he had at his disposal to prove that he had been gassed in the field, tie had not obtained the pension earlier. In recent years I have had quite a number of people come to me. For the benefit of my friends in this House I want to stress that northern France was impregnated with gas - the soil and the air. Although a man may not have been affected immediately because of his exposure to it, after an effuction of time he may have suffered considerably and then not enjoyed the life that he should have enjoyed but for this unfortunate experience of war during 1917-18. I commend the Minister for the way in which he has tackled his portfolio. If ever there was a man desirous of doing the right thing by his fellow ex-serviceman it is the present Minister and I trust that he will be able further to increase these pensions and do much more for our returned servicemen while ever he holds the portfolio. 
Can the PostmasterGeneral inform the House of the name of a person in a top executive position of the Australian Broadcasting Commission who assists communists to be appointed to important positions in the ABC? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of 10 electors of the Commonwealth of Australia . respectfully showeth: 
That the United Nations General Assembly Resolution 2603 XXIV A (December 1969) declares that the Geneva Protocol of 1925, which Australia has ratified, prohibits the use in international armed conflict of any chemical agents of warfare - chemical substances whether gaseous, liquid or solid - employed for their direct toxic effects on man, animals or plants; 
that the World Health Organisation Report (January 1970) confirms the above definition of chemical agents of warfare; 
that the Australian Government does not accept this definition, but holds that the Geneva Protocol does not prevent the use in war of certain toxic chemical substances in the form of herbicides, defoliants and 'riotcontrol' agents. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray: 
That the Parliament take note of the consensus of international political, scientific and humanitarian opinion; and 
that honourable members urge upon the Government the desirability of revising its interpretation of the Geneva Protocol, and declaring that it regards all chemical substances employed for their toxic effects on man, animals or plants as being included in the prohibitions laid down by that Protocol. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Primary Industry been drawn to the proposed scheme of the New South Wales Minister for Lands,  Mr Thomas 
Lewis, to agree to allow Western Lands lessees to sell their holdings to public companies as this appears to be one of the few schemes which could alleviate the economic difficulties of the lessees? I ask the Minister whether it would be wise to adopt a similar scheme for wool growers? Would not this be better and more effective than the support price plan which could cost the Government between $100m to $200m a year? 
This is a cognate debate on the Broadcasting and Television Bill (No. 2), the Post and Telegraph Bill and the Post and Telegraph Rates Bill. The amendment moved by the Opposition has some substance but cannot be sustained at this time. When members of the Opposition are interested in such a proposal and want it to be implemented, one immediately becomes suspicious of just what their intention is. In point of fact, I had given consideration to this proposal and thought that it might be a way by which we could improve the relationships between management and employee. It appears to me that, in view of the large staff of the Postmaster-General's Department, with all its ramifications, it is difficult for the Public Service Regulations to apply in so many fields of activity. For instance, it appears to me that it is difficult for regulations to be framed under the Public Service Act to meet the situation of Joe Blow who delivers the mail around the suburbs of the capital cities. I am not saying that there are any undue differences between management and personnel. All 1 am trying to say is that it is the aim of the Government parties, and it should be the aim of all political parties, to bring about better understanding and mutual confidence between the two. I am looking forward to that day, but the time may not yet be opportune. 
The honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Buchanan)  referred to hotels and motels having to. pay television and radio licence fees. I think that there is some substance in what he said. 1 am sure that many guests, especially those who are on holidays, would prefer their rooms not to be provided with television sets. My observations of people with whom I have been on tour for 10 days at a time have shown that many of them have not switched on a television set for the whole period. People who are on holidays want to get away from their normal routine. These people are under a great strain for most of the year. I think it is nice to get away from the things with which one is constantly confronted. I suppose it all boils down to a matter of competition. If one motel or hotel has air conditioning and television it is necessary for the others to follow suit. However, I do not think that the tariff would be reduced if a television set were not provided. I think the cost of providing this service is amalgamated in the charge imposed for the provision of all services. The cost on a weekly or daily basis of providing a television set would not be considerable to owners of a hotel or motel. 
I turn now to the increased licence fees that are to be imposed. I think an easycome easy-go attitude has grown up within the Australian Broadcasting Commission. It is a human element that cannot be overcome. I understand that the revenue of the ABC is derived from the imposition of licence fees and that the expenditure of the ABC is such that to meet its outgoings it is necessary to increase the fees. I think that this problem should be tackled in another way and 1 think it could be tackled in another way if business acumen were applied. Any private organisation certainly would endeavour to prune its costs without interfering with the efficiency of its undertaking before resorting to increasing its charges. I think that the enormous cost of producing some television programmes, especially those produced away from Australia, is out of all proportion to viewing time. It has been reported to me that the total viewing time of one programme which was produced in Honolulu was one minute. One can imagine the cost of sending a team of people to Honolulu to produce that programme. 1 do not think that the costs involved in producing it make it a business proposition. For that reason, I do not think it should have .been proceeded with. 
In his second reading speech the PostmasterGeneral  (Sir Alan Hulme)  said:  lt can be seen that the growth in gross licence receipts is not matching the trend in expenditure. A serious downturn was evident in 1970-71. The deterioration has been due to: Firstly, mounting wage costs Bowing from arbitration awards - technician salaries have risen by 29 per cent since June 1968; secondly, development of the Darwin booster station for Radio Australia; and thirdly, extension of television and television translator services to lesser populated country areas. 
The last 2 are capital costs and should not be taken into consideration in regard to income and- outgoings. Mounting wage costs flowing from arbitration awards are inevitable. Only organisations which are making huge profits can meet this expenditure without having to pass on the extra cost. The Australian Broadcasting Commission is no different in this regard. But  I  think its programmes should be more selective and less costly and that the ABC should endeavour to cut its suit according to the cloth. Of course, far be it from me to deny to the people who live in Darwin and other outlying areas the benefits of the amenities that the ABC provides in 0:he, areas. 
I thought 1 would have to get out my handkerchief when the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  was speaking about the increased telegraph rates. He did paint a very gloomy picture in regard to this matter. Most of the increased telegraph rates will be imposed on organisations which can afford to meet  them.  These increased expenses are probably due to the cost spiral that is taking place at present. The same comments as I have made in regard to the increased telegraph rates apply to the increased postal rates. The Post Office has been faced with an increase in not only the salaries and wages of its employees but also the charges applied by organisations that do work for the Post Office. These costs have gone up considerably and it has been necessary for the Post Office to increase its charges to meet them. 
The honourable member for Wilmot made a strange prediction in regard to the posting of Christmas cards. I suppose the least cost of all the costs involved in sending a Christmas card to one's friends is the one charged by the Post Office. If one were to consider the expense involved in terms of handling and so on one would find that the cost of the services rendered by the Post Office would be far in excess of the cost of the actual card. We shall have to consider these matters in detail and on their merits. Most people would be astounded at the amount of work done by the Post Office in handling Christmas cards. I agree with the remarks of the honourable member for Wilmot about electronic devices that can now be purchased. I think that not only their use but their manufacture should be prohibited, if possible. I understand that there are legal difficulties in doing this but I heartily agree with the honourable member for Wilmot that the manufacture and disposal of this type of apparatus should, if possible, be prohibited. The suggestion of the honourable member for McMillan had some merit. The amendment proposed by the Opposition has some substance but, at this juncture, I feel that this is not the time to make such an alteration. Therefore, I support the motion moved by the PostmasterGeneral and oppose the amendment which has been moved by the Opposition. 
 I support the cognate 3 Bills which are being considered in this debate. Direct Commonwealth employees are covered by the superannuation proposals we are discussing. Employees of Commonwealth authorities will be treated similarly by those authorities through their own funds. As has been stated, the last adjustment to superannuation and retiring benefits was made in 1967 and because of increased prices it is necessary to provide for increased allocations from Consolidated Revenue for increased pensions. A considerable sum will be paid to certain employees. However. as in all superannuation and retirement benefits schemes, anomalies do occur. By some means pensioners are aware of such anomalies and the pensioner who is receiving a lesser amount by way of retiring benefit always feels badly treated. It is difficult to know what sort of scheme could replace the present funds. I am pleased, however, to note from the second reading speech of the Minister for the Army and Minister assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Peacock)  that those persons in receipt of benefits will receive a substantial amount. I am delighted to read that statement. The people covered by these Bills have served in various areas of activity. Some have been in the Commonwealth Public Service. Others have served in the  3  armed Services. The third group is our confreres who have retired from parliamentary service. It is good to know that these people are being considered at this time and that all parties in the Parliament are unanimous in their support for these measures in respect of pensioners. 
I was very pleased to read the new provision which means that the increase proposed by this legislation will be passed on to widows. Certain orphans will receive increased pensions also. Special consideration will be given, in a  5-year  examination that is about to commence, to the position of orphans and children. 
I am always intrigued, when I receive certain documents, as to why simplicity cannot be the order of the day in their preparation. The people who draw up these documents understand what they mean, but a bit of deciphering and understanding is necessary to get a clear picture of just what the entitlement means with respect to the various rates of pension. One paragraph in the second reading speech delivered by the Minister assisting the Treasurer in presenting the Superannuation (Pension Increases) Bill  1971  intrigues me. I have shown it to many people but I have not been able to get a literal interpretation of it. The paragraph reads: 
Provision has been made in the Bill to increase, as appropriate, a pension that became payable, on or before 30th June 1971, to a person who elected to have the preservation provisions of the Superannuation Act 1971 apply to him and who took his preservation benefit in the form of  a  deferred pension. 
I understand from our good friends on my left - I refer to the departmental advisers - that, evidently, people have the right to defer a pension or to take up a deferred pension and that that paragraph brings them within the scope of the relevant Bill. 
The machinations of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act and the DFRB scheme have been found to be very difficult to understand. I think it was before  1958  that a different scheme was introduced. Anomalies were created in that scheme. Unfortunately, the personnel of the various Services did not have the scheme explained explicitly enough at the time of its inauguration and I understand from some people in the Services that the officers who were detailed to explain the provisions and the ramifications of the DFRB scheme found it difficult to understand the facts that they were endeavouring to communicate to other people. 
These  3  Bills are good Bills. They will alleviate certain problems experienced by many people now in retirement. Each and every one of us should hold these people in the greatest of veneration. I am pleased to add my compliments to those already extended to the Treasurer who is responsible for this Bill and its introduction here. I trust that we will not allow these provisions to go so long again without amendment. Perhaps inflation can be kept in hand.  1  would hope that, because of price increases a different type of thinking may be adopted as a result of which it will not be necessary to introduce further adjustments to this legislation for the reasons that have brought these Bills before the House. 
I think that emotion has taken charge of some honourable members today, and perhaps I can alleviate some of their distress. Referring to the statement by the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz),  at the outset I want to impress upon this House and on all people interested in this matter that the recommendations set out in the report are not mandatory. All or any one can be rejected. The report will probably suffer the same fate as have other reports which have been presented to this House. I say without reservation or equivocation of any kind that the interdepartmental committee's report has no statutory power whatsoever and, as I said previously, it will probably suffer the same fate as have other reports. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  has given an unqualified assurance that no site will be finally decided upon unless and until every objector has been heard. We want to get down to common sense and realism in this matter. The people of New South Wales - and New South Wales means the people of Newcastle, Sydney and Wollongong, and to hell with the rest - want Mascot to be the premier airport of Australia. I suppose that most States would like to have the premier airport of Australia within their boundaries. To have an international airport within one's State at the present time means that some people must suffer some distress. But be assured that as night follows day, posterity will judge people who hunt an international airport away from their area as having no foresight and no respect for the future. Technology will overcome - in fact it is fast overcoming - many of the difficulties to which my colleague, the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  referred. 
No. But if people hunt the proposed international airport away from their area, in 15 years the population will say that those people lacked foresight. At the present time we have a prototype of things to come in the form of the Hawker Harrier aircraft. Already aircraft engine manufacturers such as Rolls Royce and Pratt and Whitney, I think, have spent $60m on experiments aimed at reducing aircraft noise. If this amount of money is continually ploughed into experimentation, aircraft engines will make such a pleasant sound that people at Lakemba Ridge will waft softly to sleep. 
We also have to consider the question of decentralisation. If the recommendations in this report are to be accepted, the new airport can be sited in only one area, and that is Somersby. But there is a much better site than Somersby, and that is Warnervale. It has the Pacific Ocean on one side, Tuggerah Lakes on another side and Lake Macquarie on another side. Sydney's second airport should be at Warnervale. As the honourable member for KingsfordSmith said, train services to the area could be improved. Train services are used to transport people from the airports to the main centres of population in Japan and in other countries. Sydney would not be very far away, by rail, from the new airport. If we want to consider people and if we want the problems caused by noise gradually to disappear, then the second airport should be sited at Warnervale. 
It would not matter whether we built an international airport in a desert. Within 12 months thousands of people would be living in the area right underneath the flight paths of aircraft. The members of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Aircraft Noise went to Adelaide. I guarantee that within half an hour of our arrival 5 jet planes passed over head at not more than 100 feet above the houses. We knocked on the doors of the houses in the area and asked the people whether the jet planes had disturbed them. Referring to aircraft noise, one old chap said: 'If you take it away I would not know what to do; I could not live without it.' But aircraft noise has a psychological effect upon other people. The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith is aware of the baker who lived at Lakemba Ridge. He bought his property for $16,000. He was a dough maker. He worked at night and he wanted to sleep in the day, but with the noise of (he aircraft he could not sleep. But the point that must be remembered is that after 8 months he sold his property for $22,000. The people who purchased it were notified of the aircraft noise in the area. Aircraft noise presents very difficult psychological and social problems. Some people can live with it, whilst other people cannot. 
This is a chance for the New South Wales Government and the Commonwealth Government to do something about decentralisation, which is a subject that everybody shouts about from the roof tops but do not put very much thought into. As I said before, New South Wales now stands for Newcastle, Sydney and Wollongong. We should either divide up the rest and make it into 2 States or give it back to the Aboriginals and ask them to try and do something with it. Because of the policies of the State Planning Authority in New South Wales the conglomeration of people in this area is almost terrible to behold. Some people have to travel 60 miles a day to and from work because of the extension of the outer areas of Sydney. These people are simply being brought from one slum area to another. But for the churches in the localities about which I am speaking there would be no amenities whatsoever for these people. 
The siting of the next airport raises a number of problems. The honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  spoke about the delay in arriving at a decision on the sitting of this airport. There have been delays, but it may be to our advantage that there have been delays. I am thinking about the great advancements that have been and will be made in aeronautics. My very good friend, the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham),  who has had a lot of flying experience, will know as well as I do of the great improvements that are being made in the construction, design and performance of aircraft. An extra engine is often put on a huge train to carry it over the Blue Mountains. It may be that we will see a corkscrew type of aeroplane taking another aeroplane up into the air and releasing it. That is not beyond the bounds of possibility. Aircraft designers have indicated that mat is feasible. 
The honourable member for Newcastle spoke about the leakage of information in relation to the site of Sydney's recent airport. I think he was unfair in saying what he did because the 'leaks', as he called them, came  from the  honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage),  who evidently was privy to some confidential information. The unfortunate thing about this matter is that he has assuredly brought many public servants under suspicion because how else could he have obtained this information but from somebody in a high position in one of the Commonwealth departments. 
He told us some 8 or 9 months ago where the airport was going to be. He spoke of it as a rumour. The unfortunate thing about this matter is that he has brought under suspicion innocent men who are loyal and true to the oath that they took as public servants. 
Richmond can be wiped from the list of possible sites for the next airport. It has never been a possibility. It is too close to the great Blue Mountains. Anybody who has aviation experience knows the great hazard that the Blue Mountains present. It would not be possible to have a runway for aircraft coming in from the direction of the Blue Mountains. The honourable member for North Sydney has had experience in regard to the flying of aircraft in and around the hills  of  Canberra. He would no doubt verify that these hills pose problems to pilots. When the subject of aviation is discussed he should be listened to because he certainly knows something about it. 1 turn now to the question of the noise caused by jumbo jets, and 707 and 727 aircraft. Many people who live near airports say that they  cannot  stand the noise caused by  the  aircraft, but many others will say that it has no effect on them whatsoever. It is a psychological matter. Some people can put up with the noise of aircraft and some people cannot. I do not want to do anything which would, militate against my friendship with the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith but I have to point out that the cost of anything that the Government does at Mascot - I am speaking about the airport itself and not the surrounds - will be considerably more than the cost  would  be elsewhere but because of Mascot's proximity  to  the city of Sydney, it would be a sounder proposition economically. Let  us  consider the  Tunning  cost of travelling 40 or SO miles to an aerodrome in an outer area and the cost of running passengers to and from Mascot. Any capital expenditure on Mascot would be quickly made up by the added cost of transport from an airport in an outer area to Sydney. The disposition overseas is for large areas of land to be set aside for airports. In one area in Canada 53,000 acres were resumed for this purpose. I think it is time we used more imagination and wisdom in relation to the establishment of another international airport and set aside a huge area of land on which we can build to the benefit of Australia and the aviation industry without restrictions, restraints and constraints. 
Can the Minister for National Development representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, state when the report of the committee investigating the site for the new Sydney airport will be made available to the members of this House? Is the interdepartmental committee possessed of any mandatory or statutory powers or is it an advisory body? Has the Minister for Civil Aviation given his unqualified assurance that every objector to a proposed site will be heard before a decision is made? Can he state whether all members of the committee are competent and in full possession of their faculties? 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-r-Yes. I have been misrepresented by the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage).  He referred to a survey being carried out in the Richmond area. I had assurances from the then Minister for Air, the then Minister for Civil Aviation and the then Minister for Works that no such survey had been carried out in regard to a new airport. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. Is the Minister aware that the Australian Wool Commission has departed from wool trade practice in its interim balance sheet by showing its wool stock at cost when the market value was well below cost? Can the Minister state why administration costs of $373,000 were not included in the operating loss of $1,355,000? 
I really cannot understand why the Opposition has gone to such pains in preparing an amendment to this very simple Bill, which seeks to reduce the period of service required of a national serviceman from 2 years to 18 months and to reduce the strength of the defence forces from 44,000 to 40,000. I really cannot understand the Opposition's attitude to national service. After all it was the Australian Labor Party that first brought in universal training or compulsory military training. I think it did  so  way back in 1910. Almost since the First World War the Labor Party has been endeavouring at all times to prevent the recruitment and existence of an army of the required strength to defend Australia. I do not know why the Labor Party has gone to such an enormous amount of trouble to assist 0.8 per cent of the young men who are called up for national service. 
There is not the slightest doubt in my mind that there is no possible chance of a man who has genuine conscientious beliefs, be they religious or otherwise, being required to serve in the Army. I often wonder why the Labor Party has not applied to arbitration the stringent rules it applies in regard to national service insofar as conscientious objectors are concerned. As it is so painstaking in its assistance to conscientious objectors in regard to national service, one would think that the Labor Party would be equally adept and thorough in protecting a person who has  a  conscientious objection to belonging to  a  trade union. Furthermore, one would think that the Labor Party would endeavour to protect a man from having to subscribe to a political party of which he is diametrically opposed. The Labor Party does not apply these theories to arbitration, but it applies them to anything which relates to the defence of our country. 1 really cannot understand the attitude of the Opposition in tackling this problem in this way. Members of the Opposition have ranged over a very large area in this debate. As I said earlier, it is a very simple Bill which seeks to reduce the term of service of a national serviceman from 2 years to 18 months and to reduce the strength of the Regular Army to 40,000. 
The Australian Labor Party is always wise after the event. It forgets that the Vietcong and the North Vietnamese were the aggressors in the conflict in Vietnam and that that was the whole basis for us being in Vietnam. We fought two World Wars and a war in Korea to prove that an aggressor would never be successful. If it was right for us to fight on those occasions then it was equally right for us to have gone into Vietnam. The only regret I have in regard to the conflict in Vietnam is that Australia and her allies did not fight with all the intensity with which we should have fought to dispose of the opposition as quickly as possible. Unfortunately the views of the doves in the United States of America and in Australia have prevailed, which interfered with the prosecution of the war. We now find ourselves in the unenviable position of having to withdraw. 
There has been much controversy in regard to the bombing of North Vietnam. But when bombing of North Vietnam ceased we never heard honourable members opposite refer to the fact that 2 groups of Laotian people - I think 8,000 in one group and 9,000 in another group - were literally starved to death because armaments and food were being brought down the Ho Ghi Minh trail. These poor unfortunate people were left to starve to death and we never heard any reference to that by honourable members opposite. 
As I said previously, the Opposition now is wise after the event, but we have to remember what happened in the early stages when we made our first commitment to Vietnam. At that time there was confrontation of Malaysia by Indonesia. Because of the efforts of Malaysia, aided by the United Kingdom forces, the confrontation was overcome. Then there was the attempted Communist coup in Indonesia on 30th September 1965. I ask the Opposition to reflect on this matter. What would be our present position in Australia had that attempted Communist coup been successful? It must be remembered that the attempted Communist coup of 30th September 1965 failed by only a matter of hours. What would have been our present position had confrontation by Indonesia of Malaysia been successful and had the attempted Communist coup of 30th September 1965 been successful? Our position in Australia would have been untenable. We would have been seeking the support of any friendly ally who would come to our assistance. 
There is no doubt about what would have occurred. There are none so blind as those who will not endeavour to see. There is not the slightest doubt that had the attempted Communist coup of 30th September 1965 been successful. Chinese hordes would have attacked India through Tibet. According to the timetable, that was to take place some time in March 1966. So all these premises upon which the Opposition relies are not tenable and are not in accordance with facts. We had every right to be in Vietnam. The only thing that I regret is that because of the pressure of the doves in America and Australia the war was not fought with the intensity which our great American allies and ourselves would have liked. I think that posterity will judge a great number of these people to be traitors to their country and to the cause of freedom and democracy. 
Another point is that since the First World War members of the Opposition have not shown that enthusiasm and pride for their country that one would have expected. Many great soldiers when they returned to Australia seemed to be submerged in the Australian Labor Party, which was not particularly concerned about defence or, for that matter, the terms and conditions of service under which men of the defence forces served. The Labor Party seemed to be apart from the Services altogether. It seemed to be oblivious to the fact that we required them. I remember that, in the early 1930s when 
I was a serving officer, the defence allocation was the princely sum of 3m. I remember that the then Labor Prime Minister said that that was too much. Even if one multiplies 3m by 20 to bring it up to present day monetary values, one can see that it was only a very small allocation. I cannot understand the Opposition's attitude with regard to protecting Australia. (Quorum formed.) 
We heard the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  make what might be described as 'a sanctimonious statement' regarding national service. Then he referred to the fact that there was no conscription in Canada or in the United Kingdom. Of course, it is not required because there is unemployment in both of those countries and, of course, when there is unemployment people are prepared to serve in the defence forces. Then we heard the honourable member for Forrest  (Mr Kirwan)  deplore the amount of expenditure on defence. Of course, we would all like to live in a world where defence was not required, but in this uncertain world it is necessary that we should be prepared. I suggest to the honourable member for Forrest that a better way for him to propound his theory would be for him to go to the countries in which the aggressors are situated. Nobody can say that Australia would ever be an aggressor. We do not have any fields which we want to conquer. 1 admire the honourable member for Forrest for his Christain beliefs but, after all, the good book gives the advice that we should not cast pearls before swine. There are other reasons why it is necessary for us to have a state of preparedness. 
I find it peculiar that the Opposition is living in the past. It maintains that we can call up men and within 6 months train them to defend Australia. What a stupid statement. In these days of lightening strikes we would not have 6 months in which to prepare for war. We have to face the facts of life as they now exist. When we endeavoured to prevent the aggressor from succeeding in Vietnam, China did not then possess even the atomic bomb. Now it has a nuclear warhead, and before long it will have the means of propelling this warhead. We have to keep these things in mind. Any government responsible for the defence of Australia must be in a position of preparedness to meet any situation that may arise. As 1 said earlier, this is a very simple Bill which seeks to reduce the period of national service to 18 months and to reduce the permanent Army to a total strength of 40,000. But the subject of the Bill has been blown up out of all proportion. I support the Bill and oppose the proposed amendment. 

 - Mr Speaker, today we are discussing the Livestock Slaughter Levy Bill. It is a machinery Bill which provides for the collection of the levy over the next 3 years, from 1st January 1972 to 31st December 1974. It is a unique Bill in many ways. The levy for which the Bill provides has been requested by those people who will pay the levy, that is, the Australian Meat Exporters Federal Council, the Meat and Allied Trades Federation and the Australian Meatworks Federal Council. It is most unusual that those who have to pay the levy should ask the Government to impose it. Of course, the Government makes a matching contribution. The funds are used by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation which has done a tremendous job in many fields of primary industry. Quality control is one of the main areas into which the CSIRO has delved. Of course, sanitation and hygiene are other areas. 
We heard a speech from the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson).  It is remarkable how in a short space of time we can get contradictory evidence supplied by the scientists. Last week Professor Ehrlich prophesied doom and the end of the world. Today we heard the honourable member for Dawson state what scientists can do with food. Of course, beef production is the most successful of the potentially viable primary industries at the present time. But as the honourable member for Dawson has stated, scientists might enter this field and prepare soya beans so that they imitate, in appearance at any rate, meat. Of course, great difficulty is being experienced in getting a taste which will attract the palate of those who have to consume the imitation meat. But I think that beef will hold its own for some time. There is a disposition towards believing that protein in meat is much more beneficial than protein in vegetables! I do not know whether that is correct. There is an opportunity to stall-feed beef cattle. I have done it myself, although. I know that on occasions the Department of Agriculture has appeared to be sceptical about store-feeding beef cattle for market. When we bought a cow for the dairy I thought that we would stall-feed it. She had been in poor condition after calving. But within 2 months after we began to stall-feed her she was quite fat and ready for marketing as a beef cow. I applied this knowledge to yearlings. I bought yearlings which weighed about 3 cwt, because they had been on poor country, for 3 per cwt. They cost me approximately 9 each. I found that after stall-feeding them for 2 months their weight increased to 5 cwt, and because of the improvement in the carcass they generally were sold for between 7 10s and 8 per cwt. 
There are other avenues open. Perhaps more beef could be carried per acre by introducing supplementary feeding and not depending entirely on grazing. This is a good idea if one owns a property away from the market. One can bring cattle to a place near the market, leave them there and stall-feed them for a month. When they are sold they have not been knocked about in transit. I think that the industry would prosper if it adopted this practice. This is a very good Bill as far as it goes. Of course, last year we came up against difficulties associated with the export of cattle carcasses to Canada and America. They refused to take our beef. The CSIRO is doing an excellent job in this respect. This is a satisfactory Bill, and I commend it to the House. 
 The honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  should undergo a course in positive thinking. He sees in any legislation pitfalls and omissions that nobody else appears to notice. He has been belching about the wool industry. When the Export Payments Insurance Corporation Bill was introduced in 1956 to stimulate the sales of export capital goods the wool industry was not under any challenge or going through the depressing period which it is now experiencing. The honourable member forgets that our traditional buyers of wool did not want any assistance in financing the purchase of wool because their vast ramifications made this unnecessary. The Commissioner of Exports Payments Insurance Corporation and the Government have given consideration to ensuring assistance in the selling of wool if need be. There may be an opening for markets in the cheap labour centres of the world for the processing of wool and if need be the Government can give consideration in this regard. 
As I said the Act establishing the Export Payments Insurance Corporation came into being in 1956 to assist in the overseas purchase of our manufactured goods. The old system of finance was through letters of credit with the banking system and in other ways but we find that in South East Asia finance over 10 or 12 years is available from non-Western countries. Czechoslovakia is offering India very extended terms of repayment for manufactured goods up to 10 and 12 years. Of course this has been outside our thinking but it would appear that we will have to meet this competition in the future and it is by the sophistication of such Bills as this that it may be possible for us to match the competition of these other countries. 
In my electorate of Mitchell the Transavia Corporation Pty Ltd has produced a small aircraft with great capabilities. EPIC could have sold 2 of these aircraft at $25,000 to $30,000 to India but payment would have been made in rupees. Despite representations I made on this matter I could not get the Reserve Bank, the Treasury or the Department of Trade and Industry to assist. But little New Zealand can make a sale. New Zealand has sold, with the assistance of its Government, the Fletcher aircraft made under licence in New Zealand. The New Zealand Government is assisting in the manufacture of this aircraft and in the sale of the aircraft in South East Asia and in India. We have to get out and take risks in overseas trade. It is the lifeblood of the community. We should be brave and tackle the proposition with vigour and determination. This Bill is breaking new ground and in regard to buyers credit it opens up new fields and ventures, but as I said before we have to be brave in our ideas. Our traditional concept of finance has to be completely overhauled and updated if we are to become competitors in the sale of our manufactured capital goods in South East Asia and other emerging countries. 
I congratulate the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  on the Bill. I know that the Government will receive cooperation from the financial institutions. They are there to transact business. But when one starts to coerce and suggest that they have to co-operate I think that is wrong. If they think it is not a good business undertaking the institutions should not be forced into it. The first guiding principle of a bank manager when lending money is to ask whether he is being a person's best friend. There is a difference between real banking and fringe banking. The fringe bankers do not care as long as they have sufficient security to cover the indebtedness. But an ethical banker wants to do the right thing by his customer. From his accumulated experience in handling different types of trade, if in his judgment what the customer proposes to do with the money is wrong when it would be unethical to lend him the money. 
The Bill is a good one. It will open up avenues and ideas. 1 think it will have to be amended fairly frequently from time to time to keep up with the pace of our overseas competitors. One would think that by now the balance of payments situation would have ceased to be a handicap or a hazard that countries have to put up with. I had hoped by now that the International Monetary Fund or the World Bank would have contrived and brought in a scheme to break down the traditionally high regard for and value of gold in international trade. I think we are heading that way. I hope that within a very few years balance of payments will not be creating the great difficulties that it creates today between trading nations. I commend the Bill. 
I had intended to give an intelligent and historical speech on the formation of the International Civil Aviation Organisation but my intention has been diverted and I now have to reply to the attacks made by my novocastrian brother the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  who on behalf of the Opposition moved this amendment: 
That all words after' That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: whilst not declining to give the Bill a second reading the House is of opinion that a joint select committee should be established to investigate and report upon accidents involving international aircraft and the serious problems of Qantas and the South Pacific route'. 
Anyone with any knowledge of aviation would realise how abortive such a select committee would be. It would be impossible for people without any specialist knowledge to determine the technical details alone. The suggestion of the appointment of a select committee to inquire into this very major and vital segment of aviation is beyond my comprehension. The honourable member for Newcastle has attacked the Government in regard to aircraft travelling between America and Australia. For years the Government has been endeavouring to reach an agreement with the American Government on a government-to-government basis, and now this has been achieved. This is the first time that Australia has been able to get this breakthrough, and in contradiction of what the honourable member for Newcastle said the Australian Tourist Commission has expressed its view in regard to this matter and in very definite terms. The Australian Tourist Commission believes that a most significant breakthrough has occurred in the new AustraliaAmerica air agreement on specific frequencies and in the imminent prospects of an agreement on charter flights. 
The Commission has advocated for some time increased frequencies on the route, particularly for direct flights into Melbourne and to tap more traffic from the eastern and mid-western regions of the United States which together represent the biggest travel market of the world. The Commission is concerned by some of the suggestions during the last week that the agreement was a surrender to the United States and against our best interests. We believe this to be a shortsighted view. We believe that the Australian delegation led by the Director-General of Civil Aviation,  Sir Donald  Anderson and which included the General Manager of Q antas, Captain R. J. Ritchie, faced up realistically to the rapidly changing situation in international civil aviation and the opportunities available to us as a country for a large volume of lower fare traffic. 
The delegation secured an important new position for Australia. It has for the first time negotiated an agreement which can put the Pacific frequencies under review on a government-to-government basis. We see this as a considerable protection in the national interest to enable the Australian Government to intervene if necessary to ensure the viability of Qantas Airways Ltd as our international carrier. The agreement removes the uncertainty which has for so long existed with respect to orderly development. It is a reasonable assumption that the increased capacity should be quickly absorbed by the high growth rate, particularly by United States visitors to Australia, which for the year ending 30th June 1971 was up 42 per cent. We are already seeing evidence of marketing campaigns involving millions of dollars being spent by United States carriers in North America. It has increased the flow of tourist traffic to this area. Qantas also is a substantial promoter in the North American market and a large provider of the regular frequencies to this area which must gain in the long run from the additional traffic that we believe will certainly be generated. 
The Commission has informed the Department of Civil Aviation of its full support in the establishment of a Qantas charter subsidiary. We also welcome the prospect of bilateral exchanges of charter rights which will enable charter operators to bring here a new type of tourist business. Unlike other long-haul destination countries in Africa and Asia, Australia has so far missed out on this very vast charter market. Its development here will act as a badly needed spur for our tourism and will further highlight the need for specialist assistance as in the case of other countries to encourage the building of more international class hotels and to bring our resorts and attractions up to world standards. 
That is the view of the Australian Tourist Commission, the organisation which is vitally interested in aviation which will bring to Australia a great influx of people. This organisation congratulates the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  on what he has achieved through his Department, but we heard tonight his Department castigated for making the best of deals that could possibly have been made in the circumstances. I did want to give an intelligent resume of the history of the International Civil Aviation Organisation but I have now spent much of my time in this debate refuting the statements of the honourable member for Newcastle. At the 17th Extraordinary Session of the Assembly held at New York on 11th and 12th March 1971 the International Civil Aviation Organisation unanimously adopted a protocol amending Article 50a of the Chicago Convention to increase the number of members of the Council from 27 to 30. The amendment requires ratification by 80 states out of the total membership of 120 before it comes into force. 
The primary purpose of this Bill is to obtain parliamentary approval for Australia to ratify this protocol. The Air Navigation Act 1920-60 sets out in the Schedule the Chicago Convention which was ratified by Australia in 1947 and the two protocols amending the Convention in minor respects. This Act was amended in 1961 and 1963 to approve the ratification of other minor amendments to the Chicago Convention, including that of increasing the size of the Council from 21 to 27 members. These amendments being set out in further schedules to the principal Act, the present Bill continues the practice by inserting the new protocol in the 7th Schedule of the principal Act. 
So we have in front of us tonight a Bill to ratify this agreement We have heard a discourse in regard to air accidents and to the pact made in regard to the ingoing and outgoing tourist traffic by American airlines. I think that the Department has done a very good job. My friend the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  was to have led in this debate but he has been called away and I stood in for him at the last minute. I congratulate 'the Minister and the Department of Civil Aviation in at last bringing about a government to government agreement. We would like more of the traffic with America. It is human nature to want more. One has to remember that America has a much greater population than Australia has and, human nature being what it is, it wants the lion's share of the cake. I think that under the circumstances the delegation that represented Australia, led by  Sir Donald  Anderson, has done a great job for Australia. Members of Parliament should not belittle those representatives. After all, they are great Australians. They have a great record of military and civil service to Australia. They would not go to America and willingly give away one iota in regard to this matter. 
I do not think that members of Parliament should belittle and castigate them. They have gained the absolute maximum benefit they could by their representations. I think that part of the Australian way of life at the present time is to play ourselves down - not play ourselves up and live up to the great traditions of our pioneers and the people who made Australia great. I deplore this attitude. The people who made up the delegation are great Australians. They did the best for Australia. It is about time we put our petty differences to one side, supported them and gave them the encouragement to do something for Australia. They are great Australians, and this is substantiated by the Australian Tourist Commission which has a vital interest in this matter. I strongly oppose the amendment and commend the Bill to the House. 
Will the Minister for Primary Industry advise the House why the Australian Wool Commission is offering PAP - price averaging plan - wool at auction to the exclusion of growers' wool? Would it not be better to clear the growers' wool and to allow the PAP wool to remain in stock? 
We have just heard a tirade of criticism of the machinery of the House and the rushing through of legislation. If we reflect upon the events of the last session of which so much was being made by the Opposition we will find that the Opposition agreed that the House should adjourn a week earlier than had been scheduled, and honourable members opposite took a very mean attitude in regard to the various Bills that were before the House. If they had not submitted unnecessary matters for discussions as matters of definite public importance we would have had very much more time to debate Bills which came before the House. 
I am telling the truth in regard to this matter because honourable members opposite had an extra week in which to deal with the legislation before the Parliament. There is nothing wrong with the machinery of this place. It needs only the will and desire of members of Parliament to do their job and everything is ready. All we hear from a great number of members of this Parliament are complaints. They would give their left hand to become a member of this Parliament, but once they get here they do nothing but complain and want to get back home. If it is necessary to have an all night sitting, let us put our shoulders to the wheel and remain here and not complain. Honourable members, before they come here, knew that there  procedures  had been followed for years, for centuries in the House of Commons, and that we had all night sittings. If they cannot take it it would have been far better if they had not come here. We have been elected here to do a job and if it is necessary to get certain legislation through we should put up with the inconvenience and not go home and complain. We have heard a lot of tirades against the machinery of this place. I want to tell honourable members that once you take dignity out of this House you have not very much left. Honourable members may sneer at the positions certain people hold in this chamber and they can sneer at traditions, but take dignity away from this place and there is precious little left. I ask honourable members to consider these points before they ridicule the past. 
The time is rapidly approaching when we will have to consider the advisability of having all Ministers in the House of 
Representatives and not some in another place. It is time that all Ministers of this Parliament belonged to this House. This is the House of initiation and management and it is time we brought all ministries back to the House of Representatives and re-established the other House for the purpose for which it was brought into being, that is. as a House of review. That is what the Senate is designed to be and that is what it should be. The committees that the Senate is establishing are only a subterfuge to take from this House what rightly belongs to this House. The House of Representatives is the House of management and initiation. It is about time that these functions were returned to this chamber. 
This is where they belong, my dear sir. This is the House of management and initiation. No Bill has ever the right to be initiated in the other chamber. That is a House of review to prevent extreme legislation either to the right or to the left. It has failed in that function. It is in the last 2 years only that the Senate has borne a semblance of a House of review. As much as the majority parties in this Parliament may criticise it, the Australian Democratic Labor Party has brought about something that our founding fathers always thought would occur. The Senate is now more a House of review than ever it has been since Federation. Both major parties would not wish this situation to exist. Let us be honest and fair in this matter. The Senate is now partially a House of review. 
Of course I am free to express my opinion where honourable members on the opposite side have to toe the Party line. 
Now that the honourable member has mentioned that matter, I point out that I have stood in my place in this House as an individual to register my opposition to certain matters. I challenge any honourable member opposite to do that even if they were here for 40 years. They are controlled by their caucus. They would vote against their conscience to keep in line with their caucus. But I stood here on 3 occasions, game enough and big enough to express my own opinion and to oppose what I thought was wrong. I would like to see honourable members opposite who are trying to interject be game enough to do that. I think that I have expressed some original views tonight; I will let it go at that. 
My question is directed to Minister for National Development, representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, ls it a fact that world expert opinion favours the establishment of an airport, where practicable, on the seaboard? Will the Minister ensure that Towra Point is included in the sites to be investigated by the committee to be appointed to decide the site for the second airport for Sydney? 
I have listened with interest to some of the statements that have been made this afternoon. However, I desire to speak to the estimates of the Department of Customs and Excise. In particluar I wish to refer to the Tariff Board and to a very difficult area in which a balanced judgment has to be made. Three or 4 years ago a constituent of mine commenced to manufacture garments made of a plastic material. This material was yellow in colour and was imported from Hong Kong. No doubt honourable mem bers have seen workmen working in traffic zones and children going to school wearing garments of this colour. The garments are coloured yellow so that the person wearing them can be more easily identified and seen. Consequently, the possibility of the people being involved in accidents will be reduced. This material attracted a tariff of 113 per cent. However, garments which are manufactured from this material in Hong Kong can be imported into Australia subject to a tariff that attracts 52 per cent. 
My constituent started off with 3 people working in his small factory. By this time last year, or a little earlier, 53 people were working for him in his factory. Despite the tariff of113 per cent which he had to pay on the material used in making this garment, be exported to Canada and could meet the competition of the export trade. However, he was put out of business because of the influx of garments manufactured and made up in Hong Kong which were allowed into Australia subject to a tariff of 52 per cent. Of course, he could have imported a black material. However, as I said, the garments he manufactured were made from a yellow material which helped to prevent accidents. He could have imported black material at a lower cost but he would not have been able to sell competitively garments made from material of that colour. 
I have with me tonight a child's apron and frock which were manufactured in Hong Kong. If these garments were manufactured in Australia today the cheapest possible price would be $1.14 each. But these garments, which are manufactured in Hong Kong or Taiwan, are being sold in Australian chain stores for $1 each. We have a very difficult problem to overcome. I have people who make these garments in my electorate, in towns such as Windsor. They employ hundreds of married women. These women are able to get their children off to school, go to work and return home in time to attend to the children after school and to prepare their husbands' meals. How will we tackle this problem so that we will be fair to all the people concerned? This is the great paradox that we have to face in tackling this problem. 
The Tariff Board takes far too long to decide these matters. It is about time that the Board adopted a more efficient operation so that decisions can be made quickly. It should not take 2 to 3 years in which to determine what is the right thing to do. I know that we want to remain friendly with Taiwan. Taiwan is very friendly to us. It is trying to do the best for its people and to rehabilitate them. But I suppose that human nature being what it is, charity begins at home, and we have to remember this. The same comments apply to knitted garments, other wearing apparel and textiles. How will we tackle this problem, if we allow the present position to continue? Unfortunately we find today that because of the affluence of the society in which we live married people believe that they have to keep up with the Joneses. We find that married women, of necessity, have to go to work in order to pay for the amenities which they possess and which they desire today. 
It is very difficult for experts or people who are well versed in these matters to arrive at a decision. But I think that the Government should make machinery available so that the people who have great training in the manufacture of goods are able to come to a decision which is fair to the countries that are manufacturing these goods for less than we are able to manufacture them. I know that my friend Bert Kelly would say that we should allow these garments into this country to be sold here and that we should not consider the people who are employed in manufacturing these garments in Australia. 
In the short time remaining to me I want to refer to primary industry and to warn people that it is wise not to interfere too much in primary industry. From almost time immemorial the wheat industry has adapted itself to the situations that have arisen from time to time. During the depression we experienced the situation in which all the granaries in Manitoba and Winnepeg were full and there was a move to restrict the planting of wheat. Within 3 months there was a world wide shortage of wheat because of pestilence in the granaries in the cities to which I have referred. This appears always to have happened in regard to cereals. 
In the dairying industry we have restricted the production of butter and milk. At the present time, if a person wants to buy a ton of powdered milk in Australia he cannot be supplied with it unless it is imported from New Zealand. I know of a man who was manufacturing pet foods. He was buying powdered milk in only 5 lb lots. He carried out his experiments and was ready to go on to the market in a big way. He ordered a ton of powdered milk. The firm with which he was dealing laughed at him and said: 'You cannot get a ton of powdered milk that has been manufactured in Australia. If you want it we will import it from New Zealand.' 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Cope)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Has the Prime Minister noticed that the yen yesterday closed at 330.20 yen to the USA dollar, or 9.02 per cent above the old parity of 360 yen to the USA dollar? Does the Government intend to allow the Australian dollar to continue to float? 
I shall commence my remarks by commenting on the speech made by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden).  In his opening remarks the honourable member for Oxley was not very complimentary to the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Buchanan).  1 have served on 2 statutory committees with the honourable member for McMillan. On both committees he took up the position of  chairman  after they had been going quite a long time. I should say that there would be few honourable members in this House who could pick up the threads and get a full understanding of a situation as can the honourable member for McMillan, especially as he did in relation to the House of Representatives Select Committee on Aircraft Noise and the House of Representatives Select Committee on Pharmaceutical Benefits. There are few people in this House or anywhere else who could have picked up the threads and controlled those committees in the way in which he did. 
Although the honourable member for Oxley moved an amendment to the motion for the second reading of the speech he did not speak to any of the proposals contained in his amendment. I notice that the amendment does not in actual fact oppose the second reading of the Bill. Because it has not the courage to bring in something definite itself the Opposition has moved an amendment which contains proposals that are so unimportant and impotent that I will not even bother to read them out. The honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  made some sneering remarks about the present Minister for Health,  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson. I want to inform the honourable member for Prospect that  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson is one of the most notable hospital administrators in the whole of Australia. He was for many years the  Chairman  of the Ryde District Hospital, which is renowned as one of the most efficient hospitals in Australia. So to say that the Minister for Health does not know anything about the health problems that exist in Australia is ludicrous in the extreme. Anyone who knows  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson knows of his humanity, his sympathy and his desire to assist his fellow man. He is renowned throughout New South Wales for these qualities. I am sorry that I was not able to follow the remarks of the honourable member for Prospect. 1 do not know whether the microphone in front of him was out of compass or just what it was, but it was very difficult to understand what he was saying. I have checked with other honourable members in this section of the chamber about this matter and found that they had the same difficulty. But I shall not dwell on that aspect as I have other things to say. 
Following the announcement by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  of the intention of the Government to increase the daily benefits paid on behalf of nursing home patients by $1.50 a day to $3.50 tor ordinary patients and $6.50 for intensive care patients there has been criticism of the standards of care in some nursing homes. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  has been particularly critical of the standards of nursing homes and has also claimed that the Government, in announcing its intention to provide higher patient benefits, has been concerned with the welfare not of patients but of nursing home proprietors. As usual in situations of this kind the criticism exaggerates areas of deficiencies and ignores the tremendous value of the nursing home benefits provided by the Commonwealth to the sick and aged people in the community. The statements by the Leader of the Opposition highlighted deficiencies acknowledged to exist in a minority of private nursing homes and implied that these conditions apply generally. In suggesting that the increased patient benefits will assist nursing home proprietors more than patients the Leader of the Opposition completely ignored the fact that it is in the interests of patients that both public and private nursing homes should be enabled to remain solvent. 
The question of the establishment and maintenance of standards for nursing homes is, of course, most important. The Commonwealth is concerned to see that the patients it is assisting receive the highest possible standards of care, but it should be realised that the application of standards is primarily a responsibility of the State governments. It is the State governments which have the legislative responsibility for registering nursing homes  and  it is also mainly their responsibility to supervise the standards of these homes. To discharge these responsibilities each State has its own inspection teams which carry out inspections directed to the standards of nursing homes. It follows that any criticism of standards of a particular home should be directed, in the first instance, to the State authorities. The Commonwealth Department of Health, which administers the nursing home benefit scheme, also maintains a degree of supervision of nursing homes but this is concerned largely with the payment of patient benefits. Close co-ordination is, of course, maintained between the Commonwealth and State authorities and, where unsatisfactory features are disclosed by Commonwealth inspections, requests are made for remedial action and the State authorities are advised. There is, it is acknowledged, a need for even greater co-ordination in this area. The Minister plans to have consulta tions with the responsible State Ministers regarding an intensification of efforts by the State authorities to ensure that all nursing homes provide the same high level of care as is in fact provided by the majority. 
The claim by the Leader of the Opposition that the increased patient benefits will assist proprietors rather than patients is a gross over-simplification of the position. To have a full appreciation of the nursing home situation in Australia it is important to realise that nursing homes fail into 3 main groups. There are nursing homes operated by religious and charitable organisations which provide very satisfactory standards of care and usually charge only what the patients can afford to pay. Lately these homes have had great diffculty in meeting their costs. The Government expects that these homes will generally absorb the increased nursing home benefits into increased patient fees but that these fees will still be no higher than the patients can afford to pay. The patients will benefit in that the increased payments will help to save homes from becoming insolvent and having to close. The second group of homes are those run by the various State governments. From the Commonwealth's viewpoint the main deficiency of these homes is that they are too few in number and that patients cannot always gain quick admission. In order to bolster the growth of State operated nursing homes the Commonwealth has offered the States capital grants on a dollar for dollar basis. The third category of nursing homes is comprised of those run by private proprietors. It is unfortunate that so.ne of these homes do not always provide adequate care for their patients. It is these homes that require the greatest supervision by the State governments. 
Nobody should belittle the part that private homes are playing in the nursing home scheme. Without such homes, great numbers of sick elderly people would be unable to receive the kind of care and accommodation they need. As regards the fees in private homes, it is a fact that the majority generally charge fees which are greater than the total of Commonwealth nursing home benefits and other social service payments available to the patients. In this situation I trust that the increased nursing home benefits will largely be directed to reducing the gap that the patients would otherwise have to meet from their personal resources. In this respect it is worth noting that the Secretary of the Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association of Victoria,  Mr P,  Giles, has refuted reports inferring that nursing homes will raise their fees because of the increased Common' wealth benefits and has stated: 
Our members are fully aware the increases are a patient subsidy and not a hospital subsidy and have been introduced to alleviate hardship among those who most deserve and need it. 
On the subject of nursing home charges in general, it is a fact that nursing homes in some States have already justifiably raised their charges to take account of recent rises in nursing salaries. When, inevitably, nursing salaries are increased in other States, some fee increases in nursing homes will be unavoidable in many cases. It is the increasing cost of providing nursing home services that is the basic cause of higher nursing home fees and it was in recognition of this fact that the Commonwealth has intervened and proposes, subject to the passage of the necessary legislation, to increase by $1.50 a day the benefits it provides. That is the Government's outlook in regard to this matter. Paradoxically, we would have an over supply of beds for the aged and the infirm if we were to allocate the beds taking into account the position of the patients. A great percentage of the patients in aged people's homes could be accommodated in a hostel type of home or, much more preferably, within the homes of their relatives. 
We have been told that in one State hospital in New South Wales of the 266 patients 133 - exactly 50 per cent - were rehabilitated and allowed to go home. Other patients who are immobile and restricted, if they had their own homes or small flats built near shopping centres, would require attention and assistance from someone outside to come in only one half day a week. In some cases that assistance would be required on two half days a week. So there appears to be a loss and wastage by not being able to co-ordinate the aged and place them in homes, hostels or private homes depending on their category. Of course, there has been a great increase in the number of aged people requiring this attention. 
I think that it should be known throughout Australia that we lead the world in regard to the care of the aged. America has spent millions of dollars on this assistance but it is still not comparable to what we are doing. Although we lead the world in this regard we should never become complacent. We should go flat out to meet further the situation for these people who have done so much for Australia. 
One thing I wanted to speak about was cosmetic surgery but it does not take a big pari in this scheme. It was not thought of when the legislation was first framed but some provision should be made whereby a person who undergoes a cosmetic operation which is not necessary should pay a greater portion of the fee. One honourable member opposite spoke about medical fees, common fees and specialists' fees. It is to the everlasting credit of a great number of specialists that when treating people in the middle to high income bracket, the specialists, knowing that these people have families to rear and are paying off their homes, have been satisfied to take the contribution from the medical benefits funds. I know of hundreds of such cases. 
The estimated cost of pharmaceutical benefits for 1971-72 is $160m. After hearing what the honourable member for Prospect had to say, I think that the medical profession should be more careful and should realise the great cost to Australia of pharmaceutical benefits. Although the prescription they write out may come to only 40c, if that medicine was not necessary it should not have been prescribed. 1 appeal to the medical profession to realise the great cost of pharmaceutical benefits and to endeavour, without stinting or in any way endangering the lives of their patients, not to prescribe something just for prescription's sake. 
I want to refer now to the very serious matter of the admission to hospital of baby Rowcliff who was just a few days old. The baby was admitted to hospital with its mother on the direction of a medical practitioner. I do not know how else one can get into a hospital unless one is admitted on the recommendation of a medical practitioner. This baby, only 8 days old, was in hospital for 8 days. The hospital fee was $112.  Mr Rowcliff  is in very humble circumstances. The Medical Benefits Fund of Australia refused to pay the SI 12. The medical superintendent stated that the baby was not covered under the Act. Unfortunately, 2 Ministers of Health have ruled that the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia was right in its refusal. It grieves me to think that such a mean and contemptible attitude should be adopted in the case of this child who was only a few days old and who had to return to hospital with its mother. I understand that the child had gastric trouble and was admitted on the basis of the letter and on the advice of the family's medical practitioner. I do hope that the Minister at the table will take note of what I have said. Even if the Act or the regulations have to be amended surely we can extend humanity to these people so that they will not have to pay this SI 12 from their very meagre income. 
Did the Minister for Defence see an Australian Broadcasting Commission television programme on Tuesday night in which a graphic description of Australian forces' movements in Vietnam was given, even down to their distances from certain places? Does not this endanger the lives of Australian soldiers and provide information of great benefit to the enemy7 
I rise to speak to the Wool (Deficiency Payments) Bill 1971. Assistance to the wool industry, provided it is intended to assist in restructuring rather than to avoid it, is probably justified but the financial plans must be definitive and positively directed to long term adjustment and benefit. However, the operations of the Australian Wool Commission and the provision of a wool subsidy are completely incompatible. We are now paying subsidies based on the unrealistic reserve prices of the Commission and on a commodity much of which we still own. In effect we are taking to profit funds not yet earned and distributing them as dividends. This is economic madness. The subsidy is for 1 year and the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  hopefully states that this will provide time to promote adjustment with a minimum of economic and social disruption. The. Commonwealth rural reconstruction provisions have in no way come to grips with the problem and we can only assume that the Government either does not understand the complexities of the problem or is ignorantly believing that changes will occur thus making reconstruction unnecessary. Reconstruction will scarcely be understood within 1 year. It will be a continuing development over 10 years if the right action is taken. 
In 1960 the Dairy Industry Committee of Inquiry recommended measures to reconstruct the dairy industry in order  to  remove the growing weight of support payments. Ten years later agreement on methods for adjusting the dairy industry and its production has not been reached and the subsidies continue at close to peak levels. The Wool Commission by endeavouring to force prices is adversely influencing demand and has amassed a stockpile of over 600,000 bales. The Commission is therefore depressing prices while on the other hand the subsidy is designed to increase the price to growers. Prices are unlikely to improve in real market terms so that in a year's time the position of wool will have deteriorated further unless the needs of the trade are admitted. In effect, the Wool Commission's activities are creating a situation which will cause indefinite continuation of the subsidy. The Minister states that the Commonwealth and the States are deeply involved in rural reconstruction, making the deficiency payments legislation a most appropriate measure. Assistance for a year would be accepted if this were so, but it is not. The question is whether these subtantial support schemes are economically justifiable on the grounds that they form part of a fully researched and well directed restructuring plan. Patently this is not so. The subsidy provisions stand in isolation as welfare measures which will' discourage the forms of rural adjustment proven to be necessary. 
The limitations of the Commonwealth legislation on reconstruction are now well known. In effect, the Government has provided an institutional framework for the provision of some relief to some farmers and has laid down guidelines for limiting the number and class of persons to be helped. For the Minister to suggest that such progress will be made in 1 year so as to make the continuation of the wool subsidy unnecessary is on these grounds alone unrealistic. The wool price subsidy can be justified on economic and welfare grounds only if the collateral provisions to promote restructuring are substantially more far reaching and effective than the current reluctant attempt to admit the need. If the problems of individual welfare and political considerations are to determine eco.omic policies for rural industry the result will be chaos, increasing charges on the taxpayer and a progressive loss of export market outlets. 
On the basis of the present wool market and on the assumption that Commission reserve prices are held at the June 1971 level, the subsidy will cost about SI 20m, not S60m as provided in the Budget. Additionally, by June 1972 the Commission will have in its stocks not less than l.S million bales costing at least Si 25m. On much of this stock the subsidy will have been paid. If rural industries are to survive, policies must be promoted to eradicate protection and to improve productivity. In 1969-70 support payments to rural industries totalled $138m or 12.9 per cent of farm income. In 1970-71 they amounted to $2 10m or 25.9 per cent of farm income and, on the assumption that farm income in 1971-72 will be maintained at $8 10m, the support payments provided for in the Budget at a cost of $275m will approximate 33.9 per cent of farm income. However, as the wool subsidy will approximate SI 20m and not the estimated $60m, support payments in 1971-72 are likely to approximate 41 per cent of farm income. This completely unjustifiable trend will continue if current protectionist policies are not amended to meet economic reality. 
My following comments deal more specifically with the wool deficiency payments legislation and the ' Minister's second reading speech. It is estimated that over half the work force is wholly or partly dependent on rural industry thus making unavoidable rational steps to ensure a sound long term economic base for rural production. The Minister is still obviously working on the assumption that wool prices will improve with the currency situation determined and other factors bearing on the price of wool clarified. Trade and economic indicators do not justify this opinion. The basis of entitlement to deficiency payments on privately sold wool is inequitable in relation to auction sold wool. Freight and selling costs amount to about 6c a lb or 13.2c per kilogram. As the Bill admits the right of subsidy on private sales there is no justification for prescribing a penalty basis. The Minister naively states that this should have the effect of encouraging merchants to increase the prices they are prepared to pay to growers, which in turn should reinforce the auction floor prices. This statement reveals complete ignorance of the industry and the market situation. 
Farm prices equate equitably to auction prices less freight and selling costs, and the buyers will not pay prices higher than the competitive market situation and supply and demand factors permit. To suggest that, by penalising the private seller, buyers will have to pay higher prices is ludicrous. This is yet another means for making wool hard to buy. The buyers have stated that even if acquisition were introduced the alternative method of buying by private treaty should be retained. The Bill seeks to make private selling less attractive and is once more affronting buyer opinion. We should recall that if there were no buyers there could be no sellers. It is about time we woke up to this. It would seem that the unrealistic prices at which the Commission purchases wool will be regarded as sale prices for the purpose of determining the percentage addition to grower proceeds. Those wools supported by the Commission will therefore receive the percentage subsidy on prices having no relationship to real market values. When these wools are eventually sold a loss will result, so the taxpayer is carrying the double burden of an unduly high subsidy and Commission losses. 
The Minister's reference to sheepskins avoids the main point. If, as is provided, wool on skins does not receive the subsidy, sheep will be shorn before they are sold to the butchers for slaughter. The volume of woolly skins available from butchers for export will be almost nil. In fact, the growers will retain the wool and the position as stated by the Minister will not arise. The substantial export income from sheepskins, purchased particularly by France, will disappear. The various companies and persons required to make returns to the Commission to establish the authority for the subsidy payment will not be recompensed. This is iniquitous, as substantial cost will be involved to make the calculations necessary and to submit the necessary documentation to the Commission. Again, the Government seems anxious to drive the buyers away from Australian wool. 
In saying that the combined effort of the Commission's marketing activities and (he deficiency payments scheme will be to lift wool growers' returns by some $100m over last year's market place realisations, the Minister has admitted that. the Commission in itself is providing a subsidy element. This is clearly outside the legal scope of the provisions of the Australian Wool Commission Act 1970. Certain clauses. of the Wool (Deficiency Payment) Bill raise pertinent questions which the Minister should be required to answer. In relation to section 4(1) I ask: Does the definition of approved auction' exclude the forms of auction conducted outside the members of the National Council of Wool Selling Brokers which have become an accepted and effective method of disposition particu Early in Melbourne and Fremantle? In relation to clause 4(1) again I ask: What authority will determine 'an appropriate deduction in respect of the cost of the scouring and other processing'? Is it reasonable that such a vital consideration should be left undefined for determination by an unstated authority? 
The market value of the wool on an Australian auction floor basis presumably includes the prices paid by the Commission. As the prices paid by the Commission are clearly not representing the market value, is it intended that the Commission purchases shall be regarded as sales, having regard to the fact that ultimate sale to the trade will result in a loss to the Commission? Clause 9 (3) does not make sense. Why, in the circumstances quoted, should the deficiency payments be regarded as other than proceeds of wool? Is it intended to free the subsidy from all or any liens over the proceeds of sale of wool, thus invalidating legal charges of banks and financing institutions over the total of wool proceeds? I turn now to clause 10 (3). Yet again the non-auction transaction is penalised in that the cost of appraisal by the Commission, which is a condition of eligibility for the subsidy, is to be charged  to  the applicant. As the principle of nonauction transactions has been admitted, for what reasons does the Bill so inequitably penalise them? 
Clause 12 (3) is an extraordinary provision. It allows the Minister on his own initiative to vary notional prices and therefore the basis of the subsidy percentage at any time. Is such a provision justified in the light of the Minister's statement that the Bill seeks to maintain equity among all growers? Let me refer to clause 19 (3). It seems extraordinary that the Secretary of the Wool Commission should be given arbitrary powers to determine a payment. Should not such a disbursement .of public funds be assured by reference to the Commission itself? Clause 33 contains a most iniquitous provision, as it provides authority for officers of the Commission to enter the office of any person or company registered under the Act and to have access to all trading records. What do honourable members think of that? Clause 33 (2) is particularly obnoxious, as it provides that where an authorised person has reason to believe that relevant books and documents of importance to the provisions of the Act are held on certain premises, he can require to be given access to them under warrant issued by a justice of the peace. This means that any buyer of wool-- 
I refer to clause 33 which reads in part: (1.) An authorized person may, with the con sent of the occupier of any premises, enter the premises for the purpose of exercising the functions of an authorized person under this section. (2.) Where an authorized person has reason to believe that there are on any premises books documents or papers relating to sales of wool cm other matters relevant to the operation or administration of this Act, the authorized per son may make application to a Justice of the Peace for a warrant authorizing the authorized person to enter the premises for the purpose of exercising the functions of an authorized person under this section. (3.) If, on an application under the last preceding sub-section, the Justice of the Peace is satisfied by information on oath - 
that there is a reasonable ground to believe that there are on the premises to which the application relates any books, documents or papers relating to sales of wool or other matters relevant to the operation or administration of this Act; and 
that the issue of the warrant is reasonably required for the purposes of this Act, the Justice of the Peace may grant a warrant authorizing the authorized person, with such assistance as he thinks necessary, to enter the premises, during such hours of the day or night as the warrant specifies or, if the warrant so specifies, at any time, if necessary by force, for the purpose of exercising the functions of an authorized person under this section. 
I draw the attention of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  to the fact that under clause 33 a warrant can be issued to an approved person by a justice of the peace. What we have to realise is that we are dealing with most reputable international companies. Under this clause an authorised person could be a clerk or an accountant. He could go to a justice of the peace who would issue him with a warrant and then he could go to the office of a reputable international company, either in the day or at night, and proceed to take details of its transactions. I think that this procedure is undemocratic and unAustralian and, further, will hunt buyers away from Australia. I ask the Minister to accept my amendment. I move: 
Omit 'Justice of the Peace' (wherever occurring); insert 'Judge in Chambers of a Supreme Court of a State or Territory'. 
This is a very serious matter. These people are buyers of our wool. On a warrant being signed by a justice of the peace - not a magistrate - an authorised person will have the right to enter the company's premises during the day or at night and take details from its records. This is unAustralian and undemocratic and will only serve to hunt buyers away from Australia. 
My question is directed to the Postmaster-General. I refer to the notice given by the Director-General of Posts and Telegraphs,  Sir John  Knott, that he intends to retire in January. Will the Postmaster-General assure the House that consideration will be given to the claims of members of the postal services for appointment to the position of Director-General of Posts and Telegraphs? I know that the Postmaster-General is aware that many great men as administrators in the Post Office started off in the ranks as telegram delivery boys. 
I rise to support the Bill, which allows the States to collect payroll tax from certain Commonwealth authorities. It shows the willingness of the Commonwealth to assist the States in regard to this matter. I am of the opinion that it does not go sufficiently far enough in regard to assisting the States, and I feel that the only real way to assist the States, if we are honest, sincere and genuine in this respect, is to allow the States to partake of income tax. But this Bill does alleviate the situation to a point. I have much pleasure in supporting it, and I commend the Minister for the Army  (Mr Peacock)  for bringing it before the House. 
I rise to support the Bill. There were some half truths in what the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  said. There is not very much that I can disagree with in what the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  said. But perhaps it would be advisable to take a tour over the years just to see why certain things came about. The purpose of the Bill is to give the Government adequate control over banks and to make sure that the present ownership - which is in the main Australian - remains constant and secure. The Government has a special interest in banking because its control of banking is the one method whereby it has monetary control and influence. But the banks have become impotent and are playing a lesser role than they ever played or were intended to play. Evidently the provisions of the Banking Act are not sufficient to prevent a takeover bid or to prevent a bank from being absorbed by devious means, through a straightout sale of its business or by the accumulation of shares. It is most desirable that any one shareholding shall not be more than 10 per cent and in the main this Bill makes provision to protect the ownership of the banks in Australia by ensuring that there will not be any one shareholding in excess of 10 per cent. 
By traversing the history of banking perhaps I can show that we are in a difficult position today because of the control over banking which was legislated for under the Banking Act. The banks have been forced into the unfortunate position of conducting the costly business, which produces very little revenue, of carrying millions of dollars in non-earning cash to pay wages each week and the collection of cheques. They have had to accept controls on the rate of interest that they could pay on fixed deposits and on the interest they could charge. Had they not been forced into that position they would not have been left in the unenviable circumstances in which they now find themselves, in that they are being deprived of the ability to earn sufficient profit to meet the expenditure of which I have just spoken. This has all come about because of the Government's control of banking. 
After the War, if my recollection is correct, the banks could pay only 3 or  3i  per cent on fixed deposits up to 24 months. Of course, during the period after the war money was required and various organisations advertised higher rates of interest. So the holdings of the banks in fixed deposits gradually went down. But in 1949 the Government had a mandate from the people to protect the then banking system and equally the banks had received a mandate. They should have fought for the right to carry out that mandate. But we found that the Government brought in controls on banking and instead of fighting for their rights the banks took the easy way out and became partners in finance companies to ensure that the profits from that area would be sufficient to pay for the costly side of banking which they were forced to conduct. This is where all our trouble began in regard to banking and this is how the Government has lost the monetary control that it once had. Even  Dr Coombs  has admited since his retirement that the control of banking was too fierce and too restrictive and that many of the financial difficulties that the Government has run up against were due to these restrictions imposed by the Banking Act which the Government, to our disgrace, brought in. 
Let me refer to hire purchase companies, explain to honourable members how hire purchase was first introduced to Australia and indicate what a wonderful boon it was for Australian merchants. It provided a cheap method of getting money. When hire purchase was first introduced a trader sold an article and a hire purchase agreement was entered into. The trader accepted a promissory note for the amount of the indebtedness. Having made his profit on the sale of the article, all that the trader required in the way of interest was the payment of interest of 1 per cent above the bank overdraft rate of interest.  His  purpose was to trade. He accepted a promissory note which he took to the bank and the bank thereupon allowed kim to overdraw up to 80 per cent of the value of the promissory note. If the bank overdraft rate was 5 per cent, the purchaser of the goods was required to pay only 6 per cent interest for the use of the money. But the point is that now a person buying goods under hire purchase is paying between 14 and 16 per cent interest under a hire purchase agreement. 
This is the iniquitous part of the whole scheme of things. Because there is control of banking, because of the interference with the banking system, at the present time a low wage earner is paying up to 14 per cent interest on a refrigerator and the other amenities that he requires which he is buying under hire purchase. Had the banking legislation not been introduced we would not have seen the upsurge of these finance companies which do trade unconscionably. There is not the slightest doubt about that. The main concern of finance companies is to lend money, and provided they have sufficient security to cover the indebtedness they could not care 2 hoots. It is a most unethical way of lending money, and it is unfortunate that Australia is presently in the position where finance companies, as a result of their lending activities, are more in control of the monetary situation than are the ethical banks. 
Of course, merchant banks have come in under the lap. It has been maintained by my Party and by leading barristers that in view of previous decisions of the High Court and of the Privy Council we do not have any control over merchant banks. But it would appear from the Rocla pipes case that it is just possible that we will now be able to exercise some control over both hire purchase companies and merchant banks, and it is desirable that we do so. I have never been able to understand the argument that money borrowed at 14 per cent interest has a less inflationary effect than money borrowed at 6 or 7 per cent interest. Economists and people in authority appear to imply that money borrowed from a merchant bank or a finance company at a high rate of interest has a less inflationary effect than money borrowed from trading banks at 7 or 8 per cent interest. People have adopted this stupid attitude towards methods designed to dampen down the economy. If a person desires to commence a business or to enter into a property deal, then if he is sanguine, if his judgment is correct and if he is prepared to back his judgment, there is not the slightest possible chance that an additional 2 or 3 per cent interest will stop him from borrowing money and going on with the deal. 
I think I have given a factual and practical demonstration of the effect of controlling banking and of the fact that the upsurge in finance companies should never have occurred. The Government is partly to blame in this matter, and I would have been much prouder of the banks if  they had fought for their rights instead of allowing the government of the day to introduce legislation which controlled them and made them become impotent in regard to the monetary situation. Of course, representatives of the finance companies have come along to interview the Government's economic committee. It appears that they give the Government some undertaking when there is a desire to restrict the lending of money, but knowing them as I do, they are in business for only one purpose, and that is to lend money at a usurious rate of interest. It is to our everlasting discredit that this position has been allowed to continue because unfortunately, until the Rocla pipes case, we had no idea that we could possibly control this type of business. 
I should like to see finance companies controlled and the function of lending money revert to the banks, where it rightly belongs. If this were done I think that Australia would be a much happier place. We would not be allowing finance companies to adopt unethical methods in order to accumulate the great wealth which they have over the years. I" support the Bill and congratulate the Government. I look forward to another Bill being introduced so that we can restore to the banks the power and the privilege which they had prior to the Banking Act being introduced by this Government. 
I will reply to the remarks of the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  later. This afternoon I want to speak especially about the war service homes scheme. The war service homes scheme is the Commonwealth's own housing scheme. In conception the measure is but one aspect of the Commonwealth's repatriation policy encompassing a wide range of concessions for returned exservicemen and women of the 1914-18 and 1939-45 wars and the operations in Korea, Malaya and South Vietnam. Over the past 22 years the record of successive LiberalCountry Party Governments in providing housing assistance under the War Service Homes Act has been one of considerable achievement. In December 1949 only about 63,000 eligible persons from the 1914-18 and 1939-45 wars had been provided with a war service home, at a total cost of approximately $105,000,000. About 750,000 persons were eligible for benefits by virtue of service in the 1939-45 War. The operations in Korea, Malaya and South Vietnam added further (o the number of eligible applicants. 
To meet the demand for war service homes finance Liberal-Country Party governments have provided since 1949 over $l,335m. Put in another way, of the total funds of $1,426,749,842 made available since the inception of the war service homes scheme approximately $ 1,335m or over 93 per cent has been provided by the Liberal-Country Party Administration since it took office in 1949. In so doing it has assisted a further 261,217 persons to become home owners. It is scarcely necessary to mention that the large sums made available for war service homes since 1949 have been provided during a period of rapid economic development and at a dme when heavy demands were being made on the Government for finance for many other important undertakings. 
The appropriation for this year of $60m for war service homes sets the seal on the achievements over the last 22 years. As well as providing large sums for war service homes the Government has been careful to preserve the concessional character of the scheme and without doubt there are no better housing provisions in the Commonwealth today or perhaps anywhere else in the world. Homes may be obtained on very low deposits and interest is charged at the rate of only 31 per cent, and a period of 45 years, or 50 years in the case of widows, may be granted for the repayment of the loan. All homes are insured under a special insurance scheme which provides the widest possible cover for a very low charge. The cost is less than one-third of the premium payable for private insurance. From a trained administrative and technical staff advice is available at all times for applicants and intending applicants. 
To assist widows who are purchasing homes under the scheme and who are in necessitous circumstances there is a relief scheme of a most sympathetic nature to reduce the burden of repayments and home maintenance to a level which they can meet even in the lowest ebb of their financial worry. Because there are no better provisions generally existing in the Commonwealth today many requests are received from eligible persons for a loan in respect of more than one home or for finance to discharge a mortgage on a home which they already own. The object of the war service homes legislation is to provide a home for an eligible person who does not already have one. It was never intended that a loan under the scheme could be used by an eligible person as a fund for real estate transactions. This was made clear during the debate on the original Bill and the Act expressly prohibits the Director of War Service Homes from making an advance to an eligible person in respect of more than one property except with ministerial approval. This has been the law for over 50 years. 
In conformity with the intention of the legislation it has been the policy of successive governments since the inception of the scheme to grant second loans only in very exceptional circumstances. Similar considerations apply to requests which are received from time to time from persons to discharge existing mortgages. Because there is a limit to the amount of funds which can be provided for war service homes the available funds must be used in the best interests of ex-servicemen and exservicewomen generally. Obviously on equitable grounds it is better to utilise the available funds for applicants who do not already own a home before assisting persons who already own a home. 
The war service homes scheme is a dynamic scheme. Though the scheme has been operating for over 50 years, its provisions are tuned to the needs of applicants in the 1970s - comprehensive amendments of the Act by successive Liberal-Country Party governments since 1949 have assured this. 
Amendments to the Act were last made in 1968 and the more important of these amendments are: Extension of the type of holdings on which war service homes assistance could be provided to include conditional purchase leases; the increase of the maximum amount of loan from $7,000 to $8,000; extension of the widows relief scheme to the widows or widowed mothers of all eligible persons and the wives of eligible persons who are temporarily or permanently insane, as well as other amendments designed to streamline procedures. In line with the Government's desire to provide adequate housing assistance for eligible persons, it has decided to amend the Act during this sitting to increase the maximum amount of loan available under the scheme from $8,000 to $9,000. 
It has been the practice since the inception of the war service homes scheme to acquire areas of land in broad acres for the erection of homes. After the provision of roads and other services, the land is used for group building or made available to eligible persons for the erection of individual homes to their own design. All land made available in this way is allotted to eligible persons at the capital cost, plus interest at the prescribed rate. The following is a summary of land purchases and estate development activities during 1970- 71 in New South Wales; Estate development activities were confined to estates at Mount Druitt, Cromer and Warrawee. Planning in respect of the Baulkham Hills estate has reached the stage where contracts are to be called shortly for the construction and installation of all services for an estate of 300 houses. Preliminary planning for the construction of a medium density housing development at Bankstown was commenced during the year. Approximately 60 townhouses and villa units will be built on the estate. Additional land was purchased during the year. At Adamstown Heights IS acres were purchased, at Bankstown 9 acres, at Castle Hill 20 acres, at Terrigal 20 acres and at Coniston 16 acres. 
So it will be seen that the Government has not only provided homes but is looking to the future in the purchase of land for further war service homes construction. I would like to reply to some of the points made by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren).  The high price of land in New South Wales was brought about initially by a socialistic scheme known as the Cumberland County Council scheme. Unfortunately, and to our discredit, a Libera] Party government in New South Wales continued this scheme and although the basic wage has increased by about 5 times since the introduction of that scheme honourable members will find that land values have increased to 10, 12 or even more times the price at which the land could have been purchased in 19S0. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - -Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 - Mr Deputy Chairman- 

That is all right, I can speak twice. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Order! The call alternates from one side of the chamber to the other and the honourable member is entitled to the call. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  No other member on the Government side has risen to speak and the honourable member for Mitchell is entitled to a second call. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- This is the normal practice. 
In regard to this matter-- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! There is no substance in that point of order. Let me make the position quite clear. The position is that an honourable member on the Government side who has already spoken once may receive the call a second time if no other member on the Government side rises when it is the Government's turn to be called. There were occasions when nobody on the Government side wished to speak and we did have succession of speakers from the Opposition side. But on this occasion there was a Government member who wished to speak - the honourable member for Mitchell - and I gave him the call. Although he had already spoken he was entitled to receive a second call because no other Government member rose to speak. The same applies to the Opposition side. This is the normal practice of the House and has been for many years. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  This is an established practice of the House and I am surprised that the honourable member does not recall it. It has been a well established practice in the House and in committee for many years. If an honourable member on the Government side or on the Opposition side rises to speak a second time and there is no other member on that side who wishes to speak, then he is entitled to receive the call a second time. I therefore uphold the honourable member's right to speak a second time. 
Some wild and arrant nonsense has been spoken this afternoon, firstly in regard to the new agreement which the Premiers knew about when they came to Canberra. They were very pleased with it and took it back to their respective Ministers for Housing. For certain reasons the conference of Federal and State Housing Ministers that generally takes place each year did not occur simply because the Premiers knew of the new and wonderful agreement that was proposed. I want to speak about that agreement now. The purpose of the housing grants is to provide financial assistance to the States for housing in a new form and to a greater extent than the assistance provided in the past under the Commonwealth-State housing agreements. The grants being provided as from this year replace the former arrangement. 
Under the housing agreements that have operated for the past 15 years the level of Commonwealth advances made to the States each financial year for housing has been nominated by them individually from within their allocations of the total works and housing borrowing programme approved by the Australian Loan Council for that year. Over $ 1,509m has been advanced to the States in the 15 years. Each State has been required to repay the advances it has received each financial year over a period of 53 years. The advances have attracted interest at a concessional rate of 1 per cent below the long term Commonwealth bond rate applying at the time each advance was made. Rates of interest payable have varied between 3i per cent and 6 per cent per annum. The interest concession of 1 per cent per annum has constituted the principal form of financial assistance to the States under the housing agreements. 
Each State was required to divide into 2 parts the advances of loan funds it received from the Commonwealth each financial year. One part was for the erection of dwellings by the State housing authority. The other part, not less than 30 per cent of the Commonwealth advances, was for provision of loans to persons wishing to build or purchase a home privately through building societies and certain other approved institutions. For the purpose of these loans each State maintains a Home Builders Account. Of the $ 1,509m advanced to the States over the 15 years to 30th June 1971, $l,024m was allocated to the State housing authorities and $485m was channelled through the Home Builders Accounts. In addition to the loan funds of $485m allocated to the Home Builders Accounts, additional moneys amounting to approximately $120m have become available for lending due to the revolving nature of the Accounts. 
In future each State will continue to determine the amount of its annual borrowing programme that it wishes to allocate for housing but these amounts will no longer be part of the Commonwealth's own borrowing programme. They will be provided from State loan funds. Replacing the previous assistance by way of interest concession on Commonwealth advances, financial assistance will be made available in the form of 2 types of grant - a housing grant and a rental assistance grant. The basic housing grant will be an amount of $2.75m a year, payable for a period of 30 years, in respect of State housing activities in each of the next 5 years 1971-72 to 1975-76. A condition of payment of this grant is that, as under the Housing Agreement arrangements, at least 30 per cent of each State's allocation for housing each year is to be allocated to a Home Builders Account. The grant itself then will be applied to financially assist both State housing authority activity in relation to the rental or sale of dwellings to eligible applicants and the operations of the Home Builders Accounts from which advances will continue to be made to building societies and certain other approved institutions. 
The basic housing grant alone will provide the States with financial assistance in housing broadly equivalent to the 1 per cent per annum interest concession allowable for 53 years. Commencing at $2.75m in 1971-72 the amount of grant payable will rise each year in multiples of $2.75m to $ 13.75m in the fifth year 1975-76 and remain at that level for the following 25 years. In total, over 34 years, $412.5m is payable. 
The rental assistance grant of $ 1.25m  a  year, for each of the next 5 years, is a general Commonwealth contribution towards the cost to State housing authorities of reduced rents being charged to the more needy families. Both of these grants are to be distributed on a fixed percentage basis which has been agreed with the States. The provision in the Estimates for 1971-72 is $2.75m for the housing grant and $1.25m for the rental assistance grant, making a total over the 34 years of $41 2.5m. There was no expenditure by way of grants in 1970-71. That shows honourable members some of the great assistance that this Government has given to the States. I would like to have had time to challenge some of the erroneous statements that have been made and some of the twaddle that has been spoken by honourable members opposite but I have agreed to conclude at 5.45 p.m. 
Progress reported. 
Sitting suspended from 5.46 to 8 p.m. 
We have just heard from the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor).  He traversed many fields but did not speak particularly to the Bill which has some good points despite his forebodings. The first, of course, is the concession for the deduction for the education of children. This has been increased from $300 to $400 a year. This is desirable but, in my opinion, it should have gone further especially for the student up to 21 years of age. There is another concession created by allowing a deduction for a student up to 25 years of age. I suggest that this should also apply to students over 25 years of age in special circumstances where the student has not obtained his diploma or degree because he has been away on other duties. In some cases I think this could be extending the position a little too far, but if the person concerned had been sick or on service with the Army or one of the other Services, I think the concession would be most desirable. 
Then we have a concession being allowed for the fairly substantial legal expenses paid by people who adopt children. These people are doing a service to the community by adopting children. But again, one needs to think of what happens when these sorts of things occur. We find that the legal profession will increase its fees still further and the benefit that should accrue does not actually come about. 
Another amendment proposed by the Bill will give effect to certain income tax exemptions provided for in the agreement between the Australian and United States Governments relating to the Joint Defence 
Space Communications Station at Woomera. I also think that most people in this House agree with the wisdom of raising the upper limits of the age allowance which is provided for in the Income Tax Bill 1971. Further concessions have been granted in this respect and I think they will receive the endorsement of this House. But over and above the allowance made for aged persons I believe that they should be given a deductible allowance to cover the cost of people who come into their homes to assist them. This would mean that some aged persons would not have to seek refuge in nursing homes or hospitals. In turn this would be a great saving to the nation and would be of great benefit to us socially as well as being in the interests of the welfare of aged people. I would like to see a deduction granted in respect of nursing sisters or persons who come into the homes of aged people to do those duties which those people have difficulty in performing. 
I now want to speak about the Income Tax Act as it stands. I am partly in favour of the amendment moved by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean).  However, I believe it is not specific and definite enough. The Act does require review. It has been amended so often that it is difficult to understand. Many of the deductions that are allowed reduce the aggregate revenue to which the Commonwealth is entitled. Of course, many of the deductions are an aid to the avoidance of taxation, which is not desirable because this loss of revenue necessitates increases of the general rate paid by people who have not been involved in this practice. 
In directing my question to the Acting Minister for Primary Industry I refer to the experiment by an Australian objective measurement project in an endeavour to sell 207 lots consisting of 1,598 bales of wool at Yennora by sample and objective test information. Can the Minister state why it was necessary for the Australian Wool Commission to buy 610 bales in preference to allowing such lots to be passed in? Will the Minister take action in an endeavour to remove the concern and frustration of buyers and manufacturers of woollen materials, keeping in mind that if there are no buyers then there will be no legitimate sales? 
Has the attention of the Acting Prime Minister been drawn to the fact that marked increases in wool prices have occurred in (hose types dropped by the Government support scheme? The increases range from 20 per cent to 100 per cent. I ask: Is it not reasonable that the marked increases would follow in better types of wool if the Wool Commission ceased to be an aggressive competitor? Finally I ask: Is is not time that the Wool Commission was wound up? 
This evening we have heard some peculiar statements. One often wonders why the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  speaks to money and economic Bills. Unwittingly this evening he gave the Government a great boost when he spoke of Australia's great prosperity. He inferred that the stability in government has brought about this great prosperity but I venture to suggest that since he started his campaign no computer has been devised that could calculate the cost of the benefits that he would try to bring to Australia. The honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  said: 'We are committed to a scheme'. I ask: Committed to what? The Labor Party has no idea of the cost, although the honourable member made a stab in the dark when he mentioned $ 1,800m for a national superannuation fund. I understand that in the Labor Party's proposal the present pension scheme will continue. 
The honourable member for Oxley then made unsavoury remarks about the Minister for Social Services, the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth).  I do not suppose there is any honourable member in this Parliament who has put in so much work and intelligence into preparing social service schemes that he has created. If a workable scheme is to be introduced, honourable members can be assured that it will be introduced by the Minister for Social Services. He is a math ematician of great ability. At one period of his life he was economic adviser to the New South Wales Government. The Minister is a man with practical experience and ability. As I said, he is an able mathematician and if a workable national superannuation scheme is to be adopted the Minister for Social Services will be responsible for it. He has devoted much of his time in trying to overcome all the difficulties and anomalies associated with a national superannuation fund. It is all right for airy-fairy people to speak about a national superannuation fund. In most cases they refer to settled countries and settled communities where there is not an influx of migrants of varying ages which makes the adoption of such a scheme difficult. But I have confidence in the Minister. 
The honourable member for Oxley spoke of the brave words of the Minister for Social Services. I believe that his brave words will be backed by a scheme that will be workable instead of a scheme devised by economists who have had no practical experience but who have been lecturers in universities and who have not been associated with any great business undertaking. Economists work on a theoretical basis. Those who have had practical experience know that in practice frequently theories do not work out. We have heard much play concerning the abolition of the means test, but the tapered means test has resulted in some benefit. For instance,  a  married couple can have an income of $72 a week before the pension is affected. Anomalies must be adjusted but while the present pension scheme operates it is difficult to go further than the Government has gone. Once the anomalies in the tapered means test have been overcome, I think that is as far as the Government can go until a national superannuation fund is devised. 
Tonight 1 want to speak more particularly about the estimates for the Repatriation Department. I congratulate the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten)  and the Government for setting up an independent committee to examine all aspects of repatriation. No previous  speaker  has referred to repatriation. Speaking from memory, I believe that such an investigation has been undertaken only twice or perhaps 3 times since our repatriation legislation was passed back in 1915-16. It is recognised that Australia has a proud record in the field of repatriation - perhaps the best in the world. However, that does not mean that it cannot be improved. The Minister for Repatriation is fully conscious of his responsibility and he desires to do his utmost for all servicemen who have served Australia well. Whatever is done for our ex-servicemen it is nothing more than they deserve. The Australian repatriation system effectively provides for those who have suffered as a result of their war service and for those who, though there may be no identifiable link with war service, may be suffering from the intangible effects of such service. Repatriation provides war pensions and allowances to each group and to those who have a proper claim for them. 
Service pensions and allowances are provided for those who served in a theatre of war - to men aged 60 and to females aged 55 - or who are permanently unemployable or who suffer from pulmonary tuberculosis and who can satisfy a means test. Provision also is made for a comprehensive medical service, for rehabilitation training for disabled members and for national servicemen, widows and children. The effectiveness of the repatriation system is maintained through regular reviews by the Government, quite apart from the independent committee which it has set up, to ensure that pension rates are maintained at a proper level and that new benefits are introduced as required to meet particular needs. Sympathetic administration affords every assistance to claimants and beneficiaries. There is a continuing review of medical facilities to ensure the highest possible standards of service. Inevitably the system has its critics but most criticisms are either directed towards the rates for pensions and allowances or seek to widen conditions of eligibility. That the benefits and services are generally free from criticism is a clear indication that they are maintained at a satisfactory level. 
I refer now to the onus of proof provision which applies to servicemen claiming pensions. I make a plea for those men who were gassed in the First World War. It has been extremely difficult for them over the years to establish the fact that they were slightly gassed during the war because it took some years before the effects of gas were felt by these men. During my service and many years with the Returned Services League I have found that it has been very difficult to prove that men were suffering from the effects of gas to which they were exposed during the war. On some occasions by going through the men's record of service I have found, in their paybooks, notations which have enabled me to gain TPI pensions for them. If these men had been able to prove earlier that they had been slightly gassed and had continued on duty they would have received the TPI pension some years before they did. Whatever we do for the returned soldiers is no more than each and every one of them deserves, and I am sure that a proud country would like to do the utmost for them. 
I wish to speak on the estimates for the Department of Health. Of all our possessions, good health is our most precious or most valued, or it should be. However, like most things that we possess, we do not appreciate it until we lose it. Despite our affluent society, more people are seeking the assistance of the medical profession and people are taking more drugs than ever before in the history of man. It would appear that we in Australia are more doctor-prone that at any stage of our existence, despite a wonderful climate and the facilities and amenities to keep our minds and bodies in good condition. It is in regard to the aged that I wish to speak. 
Much of the loneliness that retired age pensioners endure brings about a psychological state in which they seek refuge in hostels, aged persons' homes, nursing homes and like institutions. However, despite the number of aged people in the various institutions of which I have spoken, some 80 per cent of people in this category still live in their own homes or with their relatives. This is good. Every endeavour should be made to assist them to remain there. It is surprising to learn that up to 50 per cent of aged persons in nursing homes would be better placed in their own homes and that a percentage of the remainder could be returned to their own homes if domiciliary care was available, in some cases for only half a day a week. The remaining section of these persons would require care for 2 half days a week and so on. The problem is that, because all the beds in nursing homes are being occupied by persons falling into the categories that I have just described, people in distress and in need of nursing home care and attention cannot be admitted. 
The problem is a growing one. One of the ways in which we can correct the situation is to subsidise home nursing and domiciliary care, physiotherapy and speech and occupational therapy services. There are so many able and capable people, ex-sisters and others trained in the various relevant fields, who would be pleased to devote some of their time in assisting to rehabilitate these aged people. It is a matter of the organisation of people to devote some of their time and effort. Senior citizens associations are organisations of the type that I have in mind. 
I am disappointed that the offer made by this Government last year to subsidise the erection of senior citizen centres has not been availed of more quickly. I think that a senior citizens centre in each suburb and country town is essential. Professional people could utilise the facilities of such buildings by attending at specific times to provide treatment. Voluntary organisations could arrange for aged people to be taken to such centres for treatment by chiripodists and therapists. This would save the time of the professional person who would be able to attend and assist more people. 
These are the views that I have in mind in regard to this matter. I would like more attention to be given to these matters. The position is most unsatisfactory when a number of aged people cannot get into nursing homes because beds are occupied by people who would be better off in their own homes and who do not require nursing home care. I agree with the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart)  that therapists should be brought under the national health scheme. This should happen because the services that they provide are part of a patient's treatment. I do not know why this is not done and why these services are not included. I hope that they will be in the future. 
I wish to refer to a sad case which came to my attention. I think that I have mentioned it previously. I do not know how a person can enter a hospital other than by being signed in by a medical practitioner. The woman concerned in this matter returned to hospital after having been discharged following the birth of her baby. The doctor concerned signed not only this woman patient but also her baby - not for feeding purposes but because it had some gastric trouble - into the hospital. The account for the 8 days stay in hospital was $120, I think. When it went to the hospital fund to which the family concerned contributed, an entitlement for the baby was refused. 
How such a situation could come about is beyond my comprehension. Whether the doctor was right or wrong, he signed the child into the hospital. The benefit fund to which the family subscribed referred the matter to its legal advisers who adjudged that the child was not entitled to the payment of a benefit. I referred the matter twice to the Minister for Health. I was astonished that he upheld the decision on both occasions. I say that this is wrong. The child was signed in by a medical practitioner. Even if it did not require treatment, the mere fact that it was signed in should have meant that it was encumbent upon the health insurance organisation, whichever one it was, to pay the benefit. I think that it should have been forced to pay. I did not receive any assistance from the Department of Health which upheld the fund's contention. 
In speaking on the estimates for the Department of Civil Aviation I want to refer particularly to the site for the second airport for New South Wales - not for Sydney. There appears to be a fetish that Sydney must not only have the premier airport of Australia but that the second airport must be within the confines of the Greater Sydney area, lt is about time that we dropped our narrow, foolish, parochial, state-mindedness. A wonderful international airport has been established at Tullamarine near Melbourne. I understand that there are very few international flights into Tullamarine. It has been represented to me that as few as 4 international flights a week are made into that airport. However, if a second international airport has to be established in New South Wales a team of experts should be empanelled to go into all aspects of it. Although it will be between 1981 and 1985 before it will become operational, we must have forward thinking and planning. World experts, if not on the advisory committee, must be engaged and co-opted. 
First of all, the advisory committee must be cleared of any bias or prejudice. We must enter the exploration for the second airport with clean hands. The airports of the future will be sea dromes. Eminent engineers in England, Canada and America forecast that by the end of this century they will be the established custom and wilt be the best form ot airport terminals.  Mr A.  J. Harris, the brilliant English engineer,  states thai Botany Bay  into Towra Point is ideal for the establishment of an airport and would improve the outer extremity of Botany Bay as a harbour. The establishment of an airport in such a position would conserve land, be less costly, more convenient and more accessible and would be of much less hindrance and nuisance. Towra Point must be considered and world experts must be called in. There is no doubt in ny mind as to where the second airport will be established - at Botany Bay into Towra Point. 
The next in line is Warnervale, where there is cheap land, as flat as a billiard table, bounded by the Pacific Ocean and the Tuggerah Lakes. By the mid-1980s unfortunately 80 per cent of the population of New South Wales will reside between Newcastle, Sydney and Wollongong. Such an airport would be conveniently placed for serving a huge population between Gosford and Maitland. There is an abundance of cheap land available. A huge airport could be established, with expressways and a northern railway near at hand. Commuter air services could be provided to other country towns and interstate travellers could be flown to their destinations, as they are from Mascot at the present time. I warn the Government that to select any other site without considering Botany Bay into Towra Point, and Warnervale, in the scheme of things will create suspicion of wrongdoing, prejudice and bias. I understand now that the committee is to consider Wattamolla. Duffy's Forest, Somersby, Richmond and other areas. So it is quite within my rights to demand that world experts be brought in. We must not plan the second airport only in line with knowledge of (he past. We must consider the future. There is not the slightest doubt that both America and Canada agree with  Mr Harris  in this regard I understand that Lake Ontario is being considered by the Canadians to be used for this purpose. I trust that the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  will take heed of what I have advised in regard to this matter and will bring in a team of experts so that the airport will meet the future requirements and be of less hindrance to the population who live in its vicinity. 
Is the Minister for Housing aware that a great number of returned servicemen on hearing in the Budget Speech that the war service homes allocation was to be extended to $9,000 entered into housing contracts on that basis? Many are being threatened now with losing their deposits. Can the Minister tell me whether this legislation can be expedited through this House and through the Senate? 
Can the Postmaster-General state how the amount of funds provided to the Postmaster-General's Department by the Treasury since federation, namely $2,484,331,130 was arrived at? Does this amount include losses made since the Postmaster-General's Department was established in 1901 or does it represent the assets taken over by the Post Office- when it became a business undertaking? Does it include the 5 years loss of revenue paid to the States from 1901 to 1906? 
 I will not deal with the addresses that have been given; rather would I like to say something positive and intelligent in regard to the matter before the House. I support this Bill, the purpose of which is to give legislative effect to the proposals for housing assistance to the States as revealed by the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  in his Budget Speech and as agreed to by the State Minis ters for Housing. As the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  indicated when he presented this Bill to the House, it represents the greatest change in housing policy in Australia for more than a quarter of a century. What is more important is that it provides for a substantial increase in the level of Commonwealth assistance to the States for housing over the next 5 years. 
The principles contained in this Bill were agreed to by all 6 State Housing Ministers at a meeting with the Federal Housing Minister in Sydney on 17th September of this year. Prior io that meeting detailed discussions had taken place on the Commonwealth's offer for the next 5 years and State Premiers and Treasurers were made aware of the Commonwealth Government's intentions in regard to housing assistance at the annual Premiers Conference and Loan Council meeting in Canberra in June. The Treasurer announced details of the offer in the Budget and the Commonwealth Minister for Housing met his State colleagues, late in August to consider the offer. A meeting of Commonwealth and State Housing and Treasury officers was held also to discuss details of the new scheme. Despite what (he Opposition claims, there was a full and frank discussion of the Commonwealth proposals before they were agreed to. 
This Bill replaces with a non-repayable grant the former I per cent interest concession granted to th". States for money borrowed tor State housing schemes. The grant will amount to 52,750,000 a year payable for 30 years in respect of each year's housing programme over the next 5-year period. In total - and this is the figure we are particularly interested in and proud of - this will give the States more than $4 1 2m for housing, by way of direct grant, over the next 34 years. This is a significant improvement on the former agreement, lt will enable the States to construct more homes. The States will retain the right to determine the amount of their annual Loan Council borrowings which are to be devoted to housing purposes. I commend the Government upon safeguarding the rights and the responsibilities of the 6 States in this regard. 
We operate in this country under a federal system. It requires State government and Federal government co-operation. The 
States have their responsibilities, as does the Commonwealth. This Bill preserves the right of the States to decide their own housing programmes. I believe this is particularly necessary, because the housing needs and problems of each State are not the same. In some States the demand is greater in developing areas in the country than it is in the other States. This Bill ensures that each State will continue to tackle its own housing programme and to meet its own particular needs. 
What a contrast this policy is to that of the Opposition. The policy of the Labor Party in relation to housing is a centralist one. lt is also socialist. Under a Labor Government, particularly if the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  was the Minister the States would have few rights and even fewer responsibilities in regard to housing. That would not be in the best interests of Australia or its people. This Government is to be commended for its continued commitment to the federal system in relation to housing matters. 
The basic grant that the Government will give the States also will enable them to benefit from the Commonwealth sinking fund contribution of 0.25 per cent. The worth of this contribution, which is a new proposal and is in addition to the basic grant, cannot be exactly estimated. But I am assured that it is likely to be of the order of Si 14m over the 53 years during which Loan Council Borrowings are repayable. Coupled with the additional benefits of the basic assistance grant, the sinking fund benefit will enable the States to devote more funds to housing, particularly for those who are in the greatest need of assistance in acquiring a home. The Government also proposes the payment of $ 1.25m a year for each of the next 5 years to the States by way of rental assistance grants. This will help the States to reduce rental costs to those families they regard as being in need of assistance. In the next 5 years, some $6.25m will be made available. The problem of high rents which are a burden on low income earners is a very real one. It is one that must be faced up to by housing authorities. This new proposal - it did not exist under the former arrangement - is a step in the right direction. My own State of New South Wales will receive more than $2,218,000 in rental assistance grants. 1 am certain that the New South Wales Housing Minister,  Mr Stephens,  and his officers, will see that this amount is put to the best possible use. 
I am told that the total benefit to New South Wales from the basic housing grant over the next 34 years will be more than $138m. This is by far the highest of any State. The New South Wales Housing Commission had established a good record under the administration of  Mr Stephens  and the  Chairman  of the Commission,  Mr Jim  Bourke. No doubt the State's grant from the Commonwealth will be put to the best possible use by the Commission. I was particularly pleased to see that  Mr Stephens  fully understood the Commonwealth's offer, and was able to see the additional benefits that it would bring. I refer to the condition that the States allocate, under ordinary circumstances, at least 30 per cent of their allocation for housing to a special Home Builders Account. This was a condition of the former agreement. This has been appreciated by leaders of the housing and building co-operative societies. In fact, the  President  of the Australian Council of Co-operative Building and Housing societies,  Mr B.  H. Knowles, who is a leader of the housing industry, said when the housing discussions were taking place that it was vital that at least 30 per cent of the advances and grants be channelled through the societies and other approved organisations. The Commonwealth has ensured that, under normal circumstances this policy will continue into the future. This is a very welcome part of this legislation. Building societies have a most important role to play in the housing of the people of Australia. Their role has been growing over the years, particularly in recent times. Thousands of young Australians have been able to finance their homes through the terminating building societies. The societies provide a very good community service. In fact, during the last financial year nearly $42m was developed by these societies for housing finance. That is a significant proportion of housing expenditure in this country. In fact, on the national average, nearly 96 per cent of borrowers from terminating societies are in receipt of less than the average income. They are the only non-government authorities designed to help only those on the lower income scale. 
The comments by the leader of these societies on the effects of this agreement on the housing industry are particularly important.  Mr Knowles  said: lt appears that the Commonwealth's new housing proposals were an improvement on the present Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement. 
He went on to say that terminating building societies had a vital interest in the new financial arrangements which were being discussed in regard to housing. He said the societies looked to a continuing flow of funds to the home builders' account to enable them to continue their important role of providing housing finance to those in the low and moderate income bracket.  Mr Knowles,  and the many public spirited men and women who have formed terminating building societies, can rest assured that the Commonwealth Government will continue to ensure that they' have access to funds through the home builders account. 
Another aspect of the' Bill before the House is that it provides for a new arrangement regarding homes for servicemen. Tn the past, the States were required to set aside up to 5 per cent of their housing advances from the Commonwealth for the construction of housing for servicemen. This affected some States more than others. My own State, of course, was particularly affected by this requirement. The Ministers accepted the Commonwealth's proposal that in future the Commonwealth advance all the funds for housing for servicemen. Details of this scheme are being worked out. Again, this will enable the States to devote more of their housing funds to welfare housing programmes. The Bill must be considered in its total context. So must the offer by the Federal Government which has been accepted by the States. It takes 3 parts. Firstly, there is the basic grant, which is a significant improvement. Secondly, there is the rental assistance grant, which is an entirely new welfare proposal, and one which is designed to help those in the greatest need. Thirdly, there is the new provision regarding Service housing, which is intended to assist the States to allocate more funds to welfare housing proposals. 
Those who understand the full details of the new arrangement - it is apparent that the Opposition does not - appreciate the advantages it gives over the former housing agreement. The Premier and Minister for Housing in South Australia,  Mr Dunstan,  has publicly recognised that the new arrangement does contain increased benefits. No one would suggest that he has any political affinity with the Minister, but he is fair-minded enough to see the advantages that undeniably lie in the new proposals. It is a pity that the same cannot be said for the members of the Opposition. I congratulate the Minister on the new arrangement and on bringing negotiations with the States to a successful conclusion. The Bill deserves the support of the Parliament. I commend it to honourable members. 
As 1 still have a few minutes available in which to speak, 1 wish to deal with the amendment proposed by the honourable member for Reid. In the first part of his amendment he proposes that the Commonwealth Government provide the States with adequate funds to enable them to meet the special housing needs of low income earners, pensioners, migrants, Aborigines and deserted wives and similarly disadvantaged people. As I have just pointed out, under this legislation these people will be catered for in a better way than they have ever been catered for under any housing agreement brought in by the Commonwealth or the States. In the second part of his amendment the honourable member for Reid proposed that the Commonwealth Government provide the State with adequate funds to enable them to acquire existing dwellings for restoration nd allocation by way of rental or sale. . 
There has been much said today about the price of land. The high cost of land in my own State of New South Wales - I can only speak about that State - was brought about by an Act of Parliament passed by a Labor government in 1951 which gave effect to the Cumberland County Council scheme, which was later superseded by the State Planning Authority, lt is to the everlasting disgrace of the present Liberal Government in New South Wales that it has perpetuated this wretched piece of legislation which is the basis for the high price of land in New South Wales. But for this wretched piece of legislation, which is a slur on the statute books of New South Wales, land prices never would have soared to the heights to which they have soared. It created wrongdoing, corruption and bribery. People in special circumstances knew what was going to happen and what area was going to be released. Anzacs and men of the 1st and 2nd Australian Imperial Force were robbed of their birthright. A type of socialism was brought about. The very first thing the Liberal Party of Australia should have done upon its return to power in New South Wales was to have this legislation erased from the statute book. It is the reason for the high price of land. 
Once one puts anything under the counter one creates a black market. Such a black market has been created in New South Wales. Thousands of blocks which were subdivided between the First and Second World Wars and even before that are at present lying vacant and not being built upon because of zoning restrictions. Zoning is the great evil. I understand that since the practice of zoning was introduced in Victoria some 3 or 4 years ago land values have soared some 300 per cent to 400 per cent. People should be allowed to live where they desire to live. What right do we have to interfere with anybody? If a person is satisfied about living in Riverstone, where thousands of blocks are available at a reasonable price, why should anybody deny him the right to work out his own destiny? That is an example of socialism in its worst form. Thousands of blocks of land are available in the County of Cumberland in New South Wales but the wretched zoning restrictions to which I have referred restrict building on them. Those zoning restrictions will bs lifted later on, but when they are, certain other restrictions will be placed on the subdivider or the person who buys the land. 
It is the non-availability of land that has created the terrible land price increases in New South Wales. I could speak at length about this matter. I fought the wretched Cumberland County Council and the State Planning Authority with all the vigour and determination I had on this issue. I have had a great deal of experience in regard to housing and I would say that, having regard to the construction, the amenity and the design of houses, the home purchaser is getting much better value today, dollar for dollar, than he did 9 years ago. 
The purpose of this Bill is to make minor amendments to the Homes Savings Grant Act as a consequence of the new arrangements regarding Commonwealth assistance to the States for housing purposes. Under the Homes Savings Grant Act a person who purchases from a State housing authority a dwelling the construction cost of which was met from Commonwealth-State housing moneys cannot receive a home savings grant. The principal reason for this is that the Commonwealth already subsidises he cost to the purchaser through the 1 per cent interest concession that has applied up to the present time. Under the States Grants (Housing) Bill discussed earlier tonight the interest concession is to be replaced by direct grants to the States. Future purchasers of dwellings attracting the benefit of the grant to the States still will bc subsidised as were purchasers of housing agreement dwellings. Under the Act as it stands al present future purchasers would not be debarred from receiving a home savings grant because the existing section of the Homes Savings Grant Act is not wide enough to exclude them. 
I believe that as a matter of equity the 2 groups should be treated in the same way. Surely that is a completely reasonable proposition. Therefore, to make future purchasers of housing authority dwellings who will benefit from the new housing arrangements ineligible for a home savings grant requires a small amendment to the Homes Savings Grant Act. It is only fair and reasonable that this should be done at the present time - at the same time as the passage through this House of legislation authorising the new Commonwealth housing grants to the States. 
The home savings grant is greatly appreciated by the thousands of eligible young couples who receive it each year. I am sure that the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  will keep the grant under careful consideration in the future. 1 am certain also that he will continue to ensure that young people are given every reasonable opportunity to be eligible for it. As I said, this Bill is almost supplementary to the previous Bill considered tonight. I support its introduction. 1 know that the Minister will endeavour to iron out some of the existing anomalies and some of the machinery errors made by members of the legal profession and others in regard to the submission of certain applications. I know the Minister will endeavour to be very liberal in interpreting the regulations. I commend the Bill to the House. 
I will endeavour to enlighten honourable members opposite - (Quorum formed) As f was saying when 1 was so rudely interrupted, since the present Government came to office in 1949 some 261,000 persons have become home owners under the war service homes scheme. This is a record of achievement. There has been no slowing down of war service home construction since this Government came into office despite the fact that this Government's term of office has seen heavy demands placed on the Government for finance for numerous new and important undertakings. We have every right to be quite proud of our record in the war service homes field. I am certain that under the administration of the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  and his officers this activity will continue to be one in which the Government can take pride for many years to come. 
The estimates for the Department of Housing provide for the expenditure of more than $94m on the various aspects of: the Department's operations in the current year. A major activity of the Department is the construction of war service homes for those who have served this country in the various theatres of war. No doubt exists that the $60m allocated for war service homes will be money well spent. It will provide long term low interest loans for those who have served the country in war and who have been prepared to give their lives in order that our freedom may be secure. 
One of the most pleasing aspects of the operation of the war service homes scheme is that about 20 per cent of those receiving these benefits have served Australia in the Vietnam war. No doubt this percentage will continue to increase in the future, particularly after the Vietnam commitment comes to an end. The Vietnam veterans deserve all the benefits that the war service homes scheme can provide. They have served this country with courage and honour. No doubt many of them will be able to obtain homes for their families through the provisions of this scheme. 
Another aspect of the scheme which deserves special comment is the fact that those eligible for war service homes still are able to be assisted on application. In other words, there is no waiting period. Bearing in mind the demands' that are placed on the War Service Homes Division. 1 believe this is a most notable achievement for which the Minister for Housing, who is at the table, and his officers can take credit. I certainly hope that this state of affairs will continue well into the future. The situation is different from the position some 10 years ago when long waiting periods were in force to meet the heavy demand for war service homes. 
This year in excess of 7,800 applicants will be assisted by war service homes loans. I applaud the decision of the Government to increase the maximum loan from $8,000 to $9,000. Borrowers in the immediate future will receive the benefit of this increase. The Government recently agreed in principle to the acceptance of conditional purchase tenure in my own State of New South Wales as a suitable security for war service homes purposes. This certainly is a step in the right direction. Strata titles can how be accommodated and 99-year leases can be offered as security. 
I wish to assist Opposition speakers who have demonstrated their confusion regarding money matters on which they appear to get out of their depth. As I stated, 261,000 people have been assisted by the war service homes scheme since 1949. Their repayments total approximately $80m a year. This year, in excess of $61m will be advanced for this scheme. By their peculiar mathematics, honourable members opposite have worked out that the profit from the scheme is $20m. How foolish can they become? The point is that in addition to the interest charge of 31 per cent we must take into consideration the huge staff, including professional people such as surveyors and legally qualified persons, who are employed to service this Division. Honourable members opposite do not take any of these matters into consideration. They take the income from these 261,000 people together with income from those who received advances prior to 1949 and who are still paying off their homes, and they fondly for their own purpose endeavour to create the idea that a profit of $20m has been achieved. 
I turn to the subject of second loans. The scheme as originally conceived in 1918-19 sought to supply returned service- 
21366/71-  -R--  1131) 
men with a home. There were many applicants. Times have changed considerably. When this scheme was initiated, Australia was a small nation with a population between 4 million and 5 million. The idea of the scheme was to enable ex-servicemen to obtain homes. In a great number of cases the first home provided to an exserviceman meets his lifetime requirements But difficulties do occur especially in providing extensions to a home and adding sewerage and other amenities that become available. 
Allowing for the increases in management and control we should consider the needs of the ex-serviceman who. at this time, wants to extend his home or to add a few amenities. I know that acceptance of the need to meet these requirements would create extra work within the Division but I think that, rather than cause these people either to pay off the war service home loan or to obtain a second mortgage, it would be far preferable for the Division to supply this money. After all, these men have done a lot for Australia and, although they are not as highly regarded today as they once were, I still hope that this Parliament will revere them and acknowledge that, but for their deeds, we would not be living in the affluent society in which we live today. 
The honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  endeavoured to denigrate me because of my actions with respect to Vietnam. I am proud of my views. But I am one of those people who never expects anybody to do what T would not do myself. But for his slurring statement about my views, of which I am proud, I would not say this. I was in the front line in France when I was 18 years of age and I was a regimental sergeant, Lewis gunner. So, I have no compunction about what I did. 
To those people who talk about Vietnam I say that they should go back to 1965 and recall the confrontation of Malaysia by Indonesia. They should recall the attempted communist coup in Indonesia on 30th September 1965. That coup failed by a few hours only. If both these plots had been successful, what would our position in Australia be today? The doves would be squealing like guinea pigs. They would be saying to America: 'Come to our aid! Come to our aid!' They would have gone to the Old Country - the United Kingdom - and said: 'Come and help us! Come and help us!' 
Let us get things straight. They are living in a fool's paradise. If the 2 plans of which I have spoken had been successful, we would have been humbled and we would have had to put every Ounce of energy into building up great military forces to defend this wonderful Australia. I was disgusted to hear the statements that were made in this House today when we were trying to honour our men who served in Vietnam. Honourable members opposite spoke in a mean and despicable fashion and moved an amendment to the motion by which we were trying to give honour and thanks to those men who fought for us on Vietnam. Yes, I am proud that I supported our Vietnam commitment. The time will come when many of the doves who opposed this commitment will be regarded as traitors to Australia and to the free world. 
I give notice that contingent on the order of the day for consideration of the report of the Committee of Privileges relating to an article in the 'Daily Telegraph' which was brought up in this House on Tuesday, 30th November, being read,I shall move for the recommittal of the report. 
The Bill before the House is a holding Bill brought about because of the High Court case, Strickland v. Rocla Concrete Pipes Ltd, which is commonly referred to as the concrete pipes case. The Bill does not make provision for complementary State legislation nor does it draw upon the reference of power - from Tasmania. The task of including provisions with respect to these matters would have been a complex and time-consuming one and it would have delayed the introduction of the Bill. Such provisions have accordingly, been deferred for consideration in connection with the subsequent strengthening of the legislation. Examinable agreements and practices are covered by the Bill. These have been defined to relate (hem in each case to the corporations power. Similarly the provisions relating to the offence of collusive tendering and collusive bidding have been confined so that they apply only to tendering and bidding by corporations. It is pleasing to note, too, that the agreements and practices of certain primary produce marketing bodies are exempt from the operation of the present Act by virtue of regulations made under section 106. These exemptions are continued by the present Bill but they maye be varied by further regulation. 
Tonight I want to speak more particularly in regard to the amendments that have been made to the Bill in another place. The Restrictive Trade Practices Bill contains a new provision, clause 36, which was inserted in another place, which provides for criminal penalties for the offence of monopolisation. This new provision was introduced in the Senate as an amendment to the Bill introduced by the AttorneyGeneral. The provision, if enacted, will have widespread operation. It is objectionable to me and to many others. It constitutes a sweeping alteration to the opera- tion of and the policy lying behind the previous Act now declared invalid on constitutional grounds not directly relevant to this clause. A greatly increased range of corporations and a greatly increased range of business activities are to be treated as monopolies. 
Clause 36 imposes serious and immediate criminal penalties in respect of a potentially wide range of activities and corporations but it fails to state, except in the most vague terms, what activity is criminal and what is not. It would be impossible for any corporation to know whether any particular business activity was or was not a criminal offence. It treats the poorlydefined business activities which might amount under this provision to criminal offences as monopolisation in a manner quite different from those examinable practices which might previously have amounted to monopolisation. Contrary to the provisions of the previous Act, which are reproduced in the present Bill in clauses 39 and 41, it provides for immediate criminal penalties in respect of practices without the opportunity for consultation between the Commissioner and the corporation concerned to reach agreement as to some desirable effect and modification of the practice involved, and without giving the corporation concerned the opportunity of defending its practices in accordance with the gateway provisions of the Act applicable to other practices and without any warning that some particular business activity might be regarded as criminal by those responsible for the administration of the Act. 
The proposed provision is, in many respects, not reconcilable, and not consistent, with other provisions in the Bill dealing with monopolisation. This clause was added to the Bill in the Senate without proper consideration or debate as to the consequences of such an amendment and in the absence of any evidence that a sweeping amendment of this type was necessary or justified by existing business practices. It is said that this is only holding legislation pending revision by the Government. However, it may be many months or even years before such revised legislation is introduced. I know that the Attorney-General is giving this matter his urgent attention, but there are delays in drafting and other business comes forward, and it may possibly take some time before this holding legislation is superseded. Clause 36 of the Bill is in the following terms:  (1.) A person who engages in monopolisation is guilty of an offence. (2.) In this section - monopolisation' means acquiring or using monopoly power with the intention of preventing a person from entering or expanding a business, or using monopoly power in  a  manner that is unreasonable and detrimental to consumers of goods or services; monopoly power means the power to fix, or influence substantially, the market price of any kind of goods or services, or to prevent persons entering or expanding business. (3.) The penalty for an offence against this section is: 
in the case of an offence committed by  a  corporation - a fine . not exceeding Ten thousand dollars; or . 
in any other case - a fine not exceeding Four thousand dollars or imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months. 
This clause refers to persons generally and imposes penalties on both corporations and persons. Since it seems very likely that the clause in its present form would be regarded as unconstitutional and would require amendment to cover only corporations, it is preferable to consider the effect of the clause only so far as it would apply to corporations. I refer this aspect to the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen).  It appears to me that if this was challenged in the High Court it is not likely that the learned judges would regard persons as corporations. When the Rocla case was first brought on we believed that the Act applied only to corporations and could not be levelled against persons. I am sure my learned friend, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, with has vast experience in these matters, will be able to assist us in this determination. Essentially this is a clause which imposes criminal sanctions over a whole range of activities. In this regard it is a significant departure from the procedure previously established for the control of restrictive trade practices laid down by the previous Act and reiterated, by and large, in the present Bill. 
Under the previous Act only 2 precisely defined activities were immediately made illegal, namely, collusive tendering and collective bidding.In other areas provision was made for examining agreements and for examinable practices to be condemned and eventally to attract criminal sanctions if an offending corporation refused to abide by the decision of the Tribunal. However, the question of criminal senctions did not arise until there had been an investigation by the Commissioner, the formation by the Commissioner of the opinion that the agreement or practice was contrary to the public interest and a consultation between the Commissioner and the parties concerned with a view to the termination or variation of the. agreement or practice, and the decision by the Tribunal that the particular agreement or practice was in fact contrary to the public interest. This procedure amounted to a recognition without a full and careful examination of the particular circumstances of some agreement or practice by  the  Commissioner and by the Tribunal. I would like to refer to what was said by  Sir Garfield  Barwick in his statement read by  Mr Freeth  in the House of Representatives on 6th December 1962. The statement read:   . . There should be  a  minimum use of the criminallaw. Whilst I have said that the ultimate touchstone of invalidity of  a  practice is its antipathy to the public interest, I do not think every breach of legislation in this field should brand the business man  a  criminal. No doubt there are some events in which there must be  a  criminal penalty for breach of the law, but this should not be the general consequence. 
In fact, clause 36 will bring about the reverse effect. The business man is now to be branded as a criminal. Members of the Opposition and we on this side have associated with most of the business people of Australia, and although there are a few who do get up to undesirable practices, let me state that in the whole of my business experience I have found that most people are honest and endeavour to work within the framework of the law. But whatever Act we bring into this House, be assured that the aptitude of man is such that if a business man desires to take advantage of the law it is almost impossible to prepare an Act through which he cannot drive  a  horse and buggy.  I  dislike the amendments moved in the Senate. I regret that I did not have the time to fully go into these amendments, but they are objectionable to me and 1 trust that this House will not confirm them and, in fact, will delete them from the Act. 
lt is deplorable that the House has had to listen to this subtle, cunning, miserable attack on the people referred to. Before anyone brings this sort of muck into this House he should have perfectly clean hands. The honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  should recall his attitude and behaviour when he was in Uganda. 
 Mr Speaker,  I desire to speak about and give some advice on the unfortunate position of the Australian wool industry. This week  I  have had representations from the Villawood Textile Company of Riverstone, New South Wales. Since November of last year the company has been trying to purchase SOO to  1,000  bales of cross-lamb wool. It claims that it knows that the Australian Wool Commission has purchased this type of wool and has such wool in its possession, but the company feels that for some unknown reason the Woo) Commission is reluctant to deal with the company. The company  is  unable to ascertain the reason. I suggest that possibly the price factor may be the cause. Evidently the Wool Commission bought the wool at a higher price than the then prevailing price.  I  stress, for the benefit of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  that while  1,000  bales of wool remain in the stockpile they are not in the pipeline being manufactured into articles for export and, of course, such exports increase our earnings. 
I  receive hundreds of letters of advice from various people throughout Australia, all of whom are concerned with the wool situation.  I  have received a letter from a man named Peter Hauff who has had many years of experience in the wool industry. He was an executive of a wool buying house and he was responsible for buying wool with all the guarantees con cerning yields, quality, faults, content, length and regularity. He has been closely associated with the wool industry but he had great foresight and three or four years ago, when he realised the difficulties in which the wool industry would find itself he took up another executive position. He has made certain suggestions that may prove beneficial to the wool trade.  I  shall endeavour to state them as quickly as possible. He wrote: 
May 1 suggest to consider a much simpler and cheaper method. Though its simplicity might be against its application! We have an excellent organisation in our wool selling brokers; they value their offerings very conscientiously before every auction sale. Instead of having an army of Commission appraisers, running parallel to the selling brokers' work and wool buying trade, the Government should appoint five of the best experienced wool valuers from the buying trade and allocate these five experts to the selling brokers of the day. On Mondays they work, say with Dalgety's and Farmers' teams, on Tuesday they work with Winchcombe Carsons, and so on right through the week's selling programme, As the selling brokers put a price on each lot, so would the Commission valuers, on the basis of the Commission's table of limits. 
In the afternoon, during the auction sale, when the formerly mentioned lot reaches 37c only, the Commission would not buy it in at 40c but the lot would be knocked down at 37c, the Commission augmenting to the grower his price by the difference of 3c. Thus the lot would go into consumption, it would not add to the costly stockpiling scheme; we would keep the wool flow alive and do away with the world wool trade's antagonism against the 'schoolteachers attitude' of the Commission. When one considers the high price of the present buying-in by the Commission, plus all the accumulating overhead cost of a large staff, storage, shipping, interest and what not, the gamble to get a .higher price some fine day for the stockpile .wool, does not look attractive. 
As I said before, the world does not depend so much on Australia's supplies; the trade would like to buy them but only at a price at which it can place the wool amongst the topmakers, spinners and manufacturers. These consuming industries are holding the trump cards; if the Commission will not 'play' they find enough other sources of spinnable material without waiting for an allocation of an aged stockpile sometime in the future, may be. I do not advocate that wool should be got rid of at any price, enriched by the Commission's subsidy. The valuers of the selling brokers, of the trade and of the Commission are quite aware of a lot's merits and its market value of the day. If the bidding stops at an unreasonably low level, a lot can always be passed in and be available for further negotiation. 
The Government has provided a considerable sum to assist the wool industry but the lime has arrived when we cannot continue with piecemeal methods. The time has arrived when there should be restructuring and rehabilitation not only of. farmers themselves but also of selected country towns which are becoming ghost towns. My desire has been, and always will be, to assist to rehabilitate the wool industry but the piecemeal methods which have been adopted will have cost the Government, by 30th June next when an accounting is made., nearer to S3 00m than $200m. At that lime we will be faced with a stockpile of 1.5 million bales of wool. 
The present situation creates confusion and doubts in the minds of those we depend upon to take our wool and pay us in return. This applies to the Japanese, to Continental buyers, to European buyers and lo English purchasers. They feel that because wool is being stockpiled they are inhibited from taking part in auction sales. This, more than any other reason, has been responsible for the low prices that have prevailed since about March 1970. I appeal to all those associated with the wool industry to get away from the piecemeal efforts that we have been making. We must get down to a consideration of reconstructing not. only the wool industry but also all primary industries, and we should give particular attention to country towns. 
1 address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health, ls he aware that a constituent of mine who had bat ears had an operation to correct the deformity? Because the operations were done simultaneously he was allowed a medical benefit of $142.50 whereas had the operation - 
I want to stale right now that I am the person who, within 5 or 10 minutes of the incident, went straight to the Prime Minister's office and told the Prime Minister's secretary what had occurred aud what I had heard. I have here a Bible and 1 would swear by almighty God that as I walked down the stairs and into the hall 6 or' 7 people, members of the Labor- Party, came along and one of them exclaimed to other Labor Party members coming towards the chamber: 'We have walked out'. I gave evidence before the Privileges Committee about 8 weeks later. I had not thought that the incident would blow up into the proportions that it reached. Had T known, I would have memorised the names of the people who had said that they had walked out. 
Unfortunately  Sir John  Cramer has left Parliament House tonight. I have sent a message for him to come here. He would tell you that those persons gathered around him and said: 'We walked out. Do not bother going in. It is only a quorum.' Honourable members heard what  Sir John  Cramer said yesterday. The transcript of evidence before the Privileges Committee shows that not one member has sworn that no-one walked out the doors of the chamber. They swore that they did not see anyone walk out. There is a vast difference between swearing that you saw someone walk out and swearing that you did not see someone walk out. 
Since this incident occurred I have watched the occupant of the Chair when people have walked out the doors of this chamber. On many occasions when that has happened the occupant of the Chair has been engaged in earnest conversation and would noi know who walked out. I have watched people walk out of the chamber and  I  would defy any member of this House to state whether the person leaving was a member or a visitor who had been sitting in the Speaker's Gallery. I have taken particular notice since this case came about, I have walked slowly from the stairway where 1 met the Labor Party members concerned - they also were walking in leisurely fashion- to the door on the opposite side of the chamber, lt took me exactly 32 seconds. . Those members have condemned themselves out of their own mouths on their own statements that .'hey walked out of this place. I have proved to myself that it took them 32 seconds to reach the point where I met them. 
Let us face facts. Why would 1, within 5 or 10 minutes of the incident, go to the Prime Minister's secretary and acquaint him with the facts? I could not make these, things up.  Mr Reid  was looking to find the people who were in the House at the time. He saw me and I told him not to worry, it was a walkout. On their own statements it was a -walkout.  Sir John  Cramer will come in here tomorrow aud will tell honourable members that the same people gathered around him and apparently prevented him proceeding to this chamber. They are the facts of the case and, of course, the facts always hurt. 
I would have, but apparently you do nol remember that this matter did not come up until 10 or 12 days afterwards. 
One might have thought that the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  would have handed the address that evidently was supplied to him to one of the honourable members from Tasmania. Today 1 want to speak more especially abou: servicemen, whether they be permanent servicemen or national servicemen. 1 want to speak about the mcn who willingly and voluntarily go to Papua New Guinea. Malaysia, Singapore or am other place to which the Services may demand that they go. These people should not be importuned or deprived of any benefits that they would derive in Australia. If these men meet with an injury when they are off duty they are not covered bv Commonwealth workers compensation, and it would appear that in some of these countries there is no availability of third party insurance and personal accident insurance. 1 am very determined and straightforward in stating that a man who is prepared to go anywhere to assist in this country's defence should not be disadvantaged. 
I have written to the Minister for the Army  (Mr Katter)  about servicemen in Papua New Guinea, and 1 have not yet been advised whether third party insurance is available in that area. The man I have presently in mind, a wonderful high school teacher, was prepared to go to Vietnam. Malaysia, Singapore or anywhere else that the Service demanded that he should go. He went willingly to Papua New Guinea. Despite the fact that he was off duty, he was riding his motor cycle on to a mission for the sergeants mess when he was involved in an accident. So it is a moot point whether he was on duty. But the Common wealth compensation committee is not as generous as is the Repatriation Department in giving our servicemen the benefit of the doubt. This young man was riding his motor cycle when an indigenous driver in a semi-trailer made a right hand turn without giving any indications and the rear wheels of the semi-trailer ian over this excellent young man. He was discharged from the Services. He should not have been discharged because under the regulations he should have been restored to a physical condition as near perfect as medical science could achieve, but he was discharged and left to his own resources.  His  injuries have cost him about S2,000. I say that it is up to the Government to ensure that this man is compensated. Although he was off duty, had he been off duty in Australia and the same type of accident had occurred, he would have been able to get third party insurance. It is cruel and wicked to treat our young servicemen, whether they be. members of the permanent forces or natonal servicemen, in this way. This man has had to go to specialists and have a special operation for his injuries. Of course he has a lingering complaint and is unable to carry on sporting activities as he would wish. 
Next I want to refer to servicemen who are received into the Army as medically fit but some of whom within a short space of time meet with a slight injury fromslipping in the bath or because another serviceman has pulled a chair from under them and they have suffered a spinal injury. Although they have been received by the Army as being fit for service conditions, after these accidents occur it is remarkable how the medical profession and the medical boards find out that the condition is congenital or had existed before. But for his being employed by a wonderful organisation, a bank, which has stuck to him through thick and thin I do not know what one young man. with whose case I am familiar, would have done. He was a teller in a bank. If he got tired after 2 hours he was relieved. The bank paid the expenses of his specialist treatment. This man slipped in the bath at Puckapunyal only a month after he had enlisted. Previously he had played rugby league football and used to be able to throw a l-cwt bale of hay up onto a truck. The medical profession said that he had congenital trouble. Be that as it may, up to this time it had never affected him. He slipped in the bath and after 6 weeks the Army medical officers decreed that his condition was congenital. Whether a complaint is congenital or not, once the Services accept a man as medically fit and because of an accident a man has a pre-existing condition aggravated he should receive Commonwealth workers compensation or repatriation benefits. 
I mention the case of a man who had served for quite some time in the Royal Australian Air Force. He started to take fainting fits, and eventually he was discharged as an epileptic. Because of his discharge he had to take a much more menial job than his qualifications otherwise would have secured for him, but immediaately the would-be employer found out, he had doubts and this man had to work digging trenches for the Water Board. After he came to me and put the circumstances it was found that he was not suffering from epilepsy but that he had a hole in the heart complaint. Certainly it was there before he enlisted but the RAAF received him and he served, I think, for 3 or 4 years. The complaint was wrongly diagnosed. It was not his fault. He was received into the Air Force and served. Again, according to the regulations, men should never be discharged until the medical profession can bring them to a state as near to physical perfection as it possibly can. But this rule appears to be overlooked. I appeal to the Government to give consideration to this wonderful body of men. All these men of whom I am speaking served their country willingly. 
I am sorry that I have not had time to answer the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Kennedy).  It ill becomes anyone to pass slighting remarks about a person who is so much superior and greater than himself. In the Prime Minister,  Mr William  McMahon, we have one of the greatest financiers of the world. He played an important part in the International Monetary Fund. He was one of the originators of the idea of bringing about the International Monetary Fund Contribution Corps in an effort to break down the fictitious value of gold. Of course, here we live in a nation of knockers. 
I want to put a conundrum to the House: When is a pension not a pension? I think the answer would be when it is a Defence forces retirement benefit. A peculiar set of circumstances prevails in that servicemen pay into the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund and if they retire or become ill before completing 20 years service they are graciously awarded a pension. But if their earnings then exceed twothirds of the current rate of Service pension, they do not receive the pension. The pension is suspended, but the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Board kindly remembers that such men do not cease to have a right to a pension. Of course, it places many ex-servicemen who are living in Service homes in great difficulties. When they are retired from the Service it is necessary for them to vacate the Service home within a very short period. The anomaly that occurs here is that if they are not awarded a pension they collect the money that they have paid into the fund as a lump sum. This enables them to buy a home. But when the ex-servicemen are assessed in category B or category A they receive a pension which is suspended immediately they earn two-thirds of the Service salary. This is most unjust. I know that a select committee is dealing with this matter. 
The ex-member for Maribyrnong, Colonel Stokes, and I thought we had some of this anomaly adjusted. We firmly believed that representations we had made had resulted in this matter being adjusted. But with ex-service people coming to see me I find out that this is not so. I know a serviceman who has been Honourably discharged on medical grounds. It is possible that the assessment will be a B assessment. 
He has not had 20 years service. Because of his great ability he is likely to earn very much more outside the Service than he did within the Service. Of course he has not the capital available to put down on a home. He will have to leave the Service home within a short period. He is now paying $9 a week for this home. He will possibly have to pay up to $22 a week as rent. This is a most unjust and inequitable system which has evidently been overlooked for years. I appeal to Service Ministers and to the Minister who has responsibility for the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund - I think it is the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  - togo right into this matter and to give justice. Justice delayed is justice denied. 
During the day we had a Grievance Day debate which is the preserve of the back benchers. It is wrong for Ministers to infringe upon this Grievance Day debate which belongs to us. The Leader of the House  (Mr Swartz)  very graciously came to me and said that he wanted to make an important statement. He wanted to know if I would disagree. I said no because of the circumstances. But the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  stood up immediately after the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard).  When I went to the  Deputy Speaker  to see what the position was the Minister chided me. Afterwards he came and apologised and stated that because of certain meetings in Tasmania he wanted to make the position clear. I do not think that this House would have denied either Minister the right to make any statement outside the Grievance Day debate. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  made a speech in reply to the Treasurer's statement on economic conditions and policy. We may not agree with the honourable member but he does his work and his speech is well worth listening to. While he was making his speech he was handed some notes by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren). 
In that case I will sit down. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I want to speak briefly on this Bill. I have had little time in which to prepare my submissions. A certain amount of truth has been spoken by both the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart)  and the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Sherry).  But as usual, they appear to have become confused as to the exercising of control over television licences. If we take notice of what they say, there would be so many committees, subcommittees and organisations that the matter would get out of hand. In the first instance, they ask that the Bill be referred to a joint select committee to inquire into and report upon the conditions under which television and broadcasting station licences are granted and renewed. I have served on many committees and I have chaired committees. If we do not have confidence in those who are controlling broadcasting and television, we alone should make alterations. A committee would be a long drawn out exercise. Sincere and genuine people would be on the committees. But possibly they would have no special training. I do not think very much would be achieved by appointing this costly joint committee. The Opposition seeks to insert proposed new sub-sections (2b.) and (2c.) to read:  (2b.) The Minister shall refer an application made under this section to the Board for its recommendation as to the renewal of a licence. (2c.) Before making a recommendation, the Board shall hold an inquiry in accordance with this Act into the application. 
The amendment then continues to outline the sub-sections in the existing legislation which the Opposition seeks to have omitted. This next amendment has some merit. It seeks to have the following proposed new section inserted in the Act:  124aa. A person who claims to have been defamed in a broadcasting or television programme shall be entitled, on request to the Commission or the licensee, as the case may be, and upon payment of an adequate fee, to receive a record of such programme. 
As I have said, much merit is contained in this last amendment which is proposed because if a man is defamed it is very difficult for him to obtain sufficient evidence to assist him to protect his good name. After all. a man's good name is his most valued possession. I had an experience when I rang a radio station- 
 Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  I shall defer my remarks until the Committee stage. Turning to the second reading speech of the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme)  I can see no good reason in the interests of better management, control and economy why, after the granting of the initial licence for a period of 5 years, the renewal of the licence should be restricted to one year. I cannot see any good reason why a licence could not be issued for a further period of 5 years. 
It is also proposed - I do not know for what reason - that a licence may be renewed for a period of not less than 6 months. That may be just a temporary rearrangement in regard to the shareholding and the ownership of companies. I feel that in this legislation the Government is bending over backwards to protect the ownership and shareholding in the various companies that are associated with the mass media - the newspapers and the broadcasting and television stations. I think the time has arrived when the owners of newspapers and the shareholders in broadcasting and television companies should realise that they hold this power in very safe trusteeship. We do not want to do anything to restrict the management of these concerns. But it is most necessary that they observe the greatest integrity and honour in the trust they hold. It appears to me that the Government is being very fair in regard to this matter. 
As the Anglican community of Sydney pointed out about a fortnight or 3 weeks ago, the proprietors of mass media must realise the great debt that they owe to the community and they must realise that statements made in the newspapers and by the other mass media have to be truthful and factual in every detail. I feel that there has been a lessening of standards and a lessening of propriety. There needs to be a sincere and genuine effort by the proprietors of the mass media to uphold the standards of this great trust. It is up to them to carry out their duties in a very thorough, correct and factual manner. We on this side of the House have no great objections to the proprietorship of these companies, but if they misplace this trust and if they do not honour the great confidence that the Government has shown in them, only one thing can happen to them: Very strict disciplinary action will have to be taken. 
I regret that some provision has not been made in the Bills for increasing the Australian content in both broadcasting and television. It cannot be denied that Australia has produced some of the greatest musicians, actors, actresses, singers and playwrights in the world. With this background, surely it is possible to bring to our screens a more wonderful and more sophisticated viewing than can be provided by overseas people. I know that the cost of production of programmes is very high, but we have a great amount of latent talent in Australia. If I could not recall quickly the name of some Australian at the peak of any facet of entertainment I would be very surprised. I remember the great Oscar Asche. a great playwright and the author of the wonderful 'Chu Chin Chow'. 
It may be going back, but over the period there have been other Oscar Asches although they did not have the opportunity or the determination of Oscar Asche, Lily Brayton and the other great Shakespearian actors of those days. I feel that before these licences are issued there should be complete understanding and some arrangement whereby the Australian content should be improved progressively both in quality and in quantity. 
Let me refer to the second amendment which deals with a person being defamed. I think that if the person's name is mentioned in a programme he should be able to get that extract just by ringing up the station. I understand that at the present time he has to go through the costly procedure of getting it through a solicitor. That is not right. If a man's name is mentioned, he should be able to get only that portion in which his name is mentioned within 7 days of application. I congratulate the Postmaster-General, whose portfolio covers many realms of great activity and expansion. How he has been able to' cope with this over the years is beyond my comprehension. I congratulate him in regard to this matter. He has been very partial to the broadcasting stations. I hope and trust that they revere and respect the trust that the Postmaster-General has placed in them. 
Is the Minister for Foreign Affairs aware of the increase in the persecution of intellectual and religious leaders in Ukraine and Baltic States? Will he discuss this matter with the Soviet Inter-Parliamentary Union delegation which is now in Australia? Will he urge Russia to cease the Russification of much of eastern Europe which is a violation of the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights? 
I ask the Minister for the Navy: What is the current industrial situation at Garden Island Naval Dockyard? Is it a fact that strikes and stoppages are increasing against the desire of the majority of workers? 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Navy. When grenades were washed ashore at Palm Beach recently did the Minister publicly deny that they were of types issued in the Navy? Did he subsequently admit that they were from HMAS 'Jeparit'? How does he reconcile these 2 statements? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation. Is he aware of my representations that Tullamarine Airport be utilised more extensively as an international airport? Now that British Overseas Airways Corporation intends to use Tullamarine more extensively, will he state whether this move will receive all the assistance possible and thus clear the air space over Sydney? Is it not time we put State jealousies on one side and acted as a nation with one aim, one voice and one destiny? 
Initially I want to refer to capital inflow. Much nonsense has been spoken about this matter. However I warn the people of Australia that we have had an inflow of capital because of the stability of the Commonwealth Government. Change this Government and there will be no need to restrict the inflow of capital because it will not create even a ripple. Mass unemployment would follow and we would be faced with inflation of a magnitude never before experienced in Australia. By saying this I do not mean that we are not to be alert to ensure that no Australian company, which is operating efficiently, changes ownership for change's sake as a result of overseas takeover bids without any benefit accruing to Australia. I instance the MLC case. If we do likewise to protect Australian companies as we should and will, we must encourage as much inflow of capital as possible. We must also guard against the international company being established in Australia and putting embargoes on the exports of its products to protect its products manufactured in the parent company and exported to other countries. Of course we would like the inflow of finance capital to be in the form of loans, but human nature being what it is the people with the capital wish to take advantage of their equity. 
We hear complaints about money coming into Australia, but without this inflow we would not have reached the stage of development that we have now achieved. Long and Hancock, after finding iron ore deposits, hawked them all round Australia but could not find any bidders. Although Australia is supposedly a great nation of gamblers, when it comes to investment we are very suspicious and are not prepared to take the risks that overseas people are prepared to take. When we consider what has been achieved in the Northern Territory from the inflow of capital we should bear in mind that most of this capital has come from Texas which has been established for only 140 years. That is a short time in the life of a nation. The whole of Texas was financed and populated by people from Scotland. Between the 2 World Wars the total indebtedness of the Texans to Scotland was paid off. Now the Texans are bringing their know-how and wealth to northern Australia. The people who come here will not return to America; they will become Australian citizens.  Mr Jack  Condon, manager of the Katherine meat works, said: 'Let them all come. Look what we have done. See the huge cattle trains and the roads that have been developed by these people.' 
Another matter that we must keep in mind always is that when money leaves its country of origin, whether it is the United States, the United Kingdom or Sweden, it is currency of that nation, but when it arrives in Australia is becomes Australian currency and subject to the financial controls of this country. Overseas investors know that at present no strings are attached to money coming into Australia, but they have been warned that money invested here is subject to the terms and conditions of our financial and economic arrangements. If it suited our purpose to do so, or if at any time our position was such that we needed to do so, we could restrict the payment and transfer of dividends from Australia. At present the disposition is for money which is earned in Australia to be reinvested in Australia. This is a great thing for Australia. I trust that all this nonsense that has been spoken about overseas investment in Australia will cease in view of the protections that I have mentioned. 
I propose now to refer to the Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport at Mascot and the suggestion that a second airport should be established at Richmond. In my opinion this will not eventuate. For some time I have been pressing the Department of Civil Aviation to allow the Tullamarine Airport at Melbourne to be used more extensively as an international airport. This great aerodrome, which was paid for with the nation's money, has been almost neglected by international air carriers. We believe in freedom of movement, so if people in Washington, New York, London or Manchester want to travel direct to Melbourne, who are we to say that they should not do so? Until recently this wonderful airport at Tullamarine had only a few international arrivals. It is time that we forgot our State jealousies and acted as one nation, speaking with one voice, with one aim and one destiny. Until we are rid of State jealousies we will never get ahead. We will be handicapped if we think of our State first and the nation second. I am an Australian first and a New South Welshman second. I hope that the matters that I am mentioning will sink deeply into those people who have the management of the Department of Civil Aviation. 
In regard to the suggestion that a second airport be constructed at Richmond, there are many hazards in that area which militate against its use as an airport. That area should never have entered into consideration for this purpose. We have a great air base at Richmond, about which much twaddle and nonsense has been spoken. We have heard suggestions that it should be transferred from Richmond to Dubbo or to some other place, but it has never been envisaged that this would be done. The Richmond area experiences fogs of great intensity and it would not be wise to have a civil airport in an area that is subject to fog. Frequently there are floods in that area, so that would be another hazard. In addition we have at Richmond the great, wonderful, worldrenowned Hawkesbury Agricultural College. If an airport were established in the area that has been suggested by the experts this great and wonderful college would be overrun. If the college were shifted we could never restore the traditions that belong to that institution. 
Why should a second airport be a Sydney airport? Surely we can get away from this parochialism. I can suggest 2 or 3 better sites. There is Warnervale which is a few miles north of Wyong where we have the great Tuggerah Lakes and the Pacific Ocean. There is much land there which has not been developed. The soil is a sandy loam which would be easy to move. An extensive area is available there and that should be considered first. The Wyee turnoff provides a gateway to the New England Highway and it is not more than about 20 miles from Newcastle, which is bereft of an airport for domestic use. The area to which I have referred, together with an area at Putty, will provide 53,000 acres which could be used for this purpose. Montreal has adopted a different concept in regard to airports. It has taken over an area of 53,000 acres and the whole international airport complex, including the engineering shops and everything else, will be established within the airport. I know that it will be 15 or 20 years before the second Sydney airport comes into being, but we have now a wonderful opportunity for forward thinking. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
This problem balances itself out over a period. After the next election honourable members opposite will be in the same position as they were before the last election, when this procedure operated in their favour. If the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  wants to correct the position, he should appeal to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  not to ask so many questions and to give back bench members of the Opposition a fair go. Nothing is more certain than that, as night follows day, we will be returned after the next election with an overwhelming majority. The Opposition will have very few members and those members will have many opportunities to ask questions. 
I oppose the amendment because it is unnecessary. When one looks on the other side of the House and sees the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly),  the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Webb)  and the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Mclvor),  and knowing that it will not be very long before they are relegated to lesser positions, one must feel sorry for them because of the great service they have given the Australian Labor Party. They are being bypassed by semi-intellectuals. These great men who have rendered so much service to Australia are to go back into the limbo. This amendment would be unnecessary if the petitions that were brought in were genuine. We had the position last week where the petitions were signed, in the majority, by members of this House. That is almost fraudulent. They were not petitions from the people. We want to know what the people of Australia want, but when you have an organised political stunt, as is sometimes brought on in this House, you have to give serious consideration to the matter. 
But that does not rid us of the fact that the petitions were signed by members of this House. We all want to assist our electors and people who wish to present petitions to this House. But let these petitions be genuine. The honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  has stated that there will be many more petitions - these may be in the region of hundreds - presented to this House. 
Publications withinthe western districts of Sydney have indicated that there will be many more petitions organised in regard to the closing of Post Offices. I believe that the House should accept petitions that are collected spontaneously from the electors themselves. 
The amendment moved by the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  envisages the establishment of a petitions committee. Why do we want another committee to go into the question of petitions? If petitions are brought to various honourable members it is encumbent upon them to present those petitions to this 
House. We do not want a committee to go through them, check them and see whether there are any irregularities. That is the Clerk's duty. Such a committee would take up the time of honourable members. They would not be able to be in this chamber or in their offices attending to matters in relation to their electorates when this committee was sitting. 
The honourable member for Riverina took the attitude that because the Government did not support the amendment supporters of the Government were voting on a party line. I do not know anything about this amendment. I knew nothing of the recommendation made by the Standing Orders Committee. I voted according to what I thought was right and 1 wasnot influenced by anyone. No-one on our side of the House canvassed votes or lobbied in any manner whatsoever. It is far from the truth for the honourable member for Riverina to say that a vote was taken on party lines. Let us be sincere and honest in regard to this. Let honourable members present petitions that are brought to them by people or organisations who have signed those petitions of their own volition and by their own desire. We do not need a committee to help us present these petitions. I believe that the amount of time that is taken up by the presentation of petitions does not matter. I know that there have been occasions on which huge petitions have been received by an honourable member who has divided that petition into several petitions to present to this House. It is up to the members of this House to do the right thing. If they do, we will overcome the difficulty that arises because of the time-absorbing nature of the procedures for the presentation of petitions. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education and Science. In view of the fact that the Government's current 3-year programme of unmatched capital grants to the States for the building of teachers training colleges ends in June next year, and bearing in mind the recommendations in the recent report of the Senate Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts on teacher training, can the Minister say whether that programme will be extended or modified? 
Can the Minister for Education and Science state how much of the unmatched special grants for teachers colleges has not been taken up by the various States? Will it be necessary for the States to use their entitlement by June next year or abandon their entitlement? 
We have heard a great divergence of opinion and a straying away from the Bill that is before the House tonight. It was refreshing to hear the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  say that a subsidy would accentuate the freight and other costs that would have to be charged by any Australian shipper in competition with the ships of other nations. As I understand the position, the tonnage measurement and the registration of ships provisions in our legislation existed in the British Merchant Shipping Act of previous times. This Bill will give power to the Commonwealth, through the Navigation Act, to make regulations for the measurement of a ship's tonnage in the way provided in the tonnage mark scheme. These provisions are unique in Australian legislation. The measurement of ships' tonnages is a subject that has never before been dealt with by this Parliament. It was previously covered by the British Merchant Shipping Act of 1894 as it applied to Australia. By measurement we can establish the criteria for the ship's size by volume as a basis for the levying of dues and charges. A ship's net tonnage is arrived at by subtracting from its enclosed volume of space the area that is not used for cargo. Pending new Commonwealth legislation being introduced to supersede the British Acts as they apply to Australia, the Bill now before the House will provide Commonwealth power to make regulations for the measurement of ships. Australian ships engaged in overseas trade are at present disadvantaged because of the tonnage mark system in vogue in most countries of the world. 
I do not think it is necessary to deal clause by clause with the alterations contained in the Bill. It strengthens the position of Australian ships plying to foreign ports and gives the Commonwealth power to deal with foreign ships that are not registered under the tonnage mark scheme. The opportunity has been taken to effect amendments to 2 other matters within the Navigation Act. The first of these amendments, which is dealt with by clauses 3 and 4. raises the minimum age at which a person, including an apprentice, may be employed at sea under the Navigation Act from 15 to 16 years. The minimum age in practice is already at least 16, and whilst covering this the amendment will put Commonwealth law on the matter in an even better position in relation to relevant International Labor Organisation conventions. 
The Bill we are dealing with is a simple one. There is no need to explore it to the full. The Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  stated in his second reading speech that new registration legislation will be placed before the House in due course. In the meantime we are protected under British laws as they apply to Australia. They provide protection in some ways. I commend the Bill to the House and oppose the amendment. 
I ask the Minister for Education and Science: In its recently announced proposals of financial assistance to Australian schools did the Commonwealth seek to weight grants in favour of independent schools? Is the criticism by some commentators over the week-end justified? 
Is the Prime Minister aware that a tour of inspection of living abodes of pensioners in inner city areas revealed that exorbitant rents are being charged and that, in most cases, the pensioners have stated that they could manage quite well but for the increased rents? Will the Prime Minister invite the State Premiers to meet him in an endeavour to have the position corrected? 
I ask the Prime Minister: Now that caution statements have to be given on radio and television regarding cigarette smoking will he request the Premiers to see that APC powders are wrapped in red papers with 'Danger* signs thereon? Is he aware that the various banks of kidneys and livers have not the required number to meet the present situation? 
It gives me a great deal of pleasure to support this Bill. At the outset 1 should like to congratulate the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth).  This legislation is further evidence of his desire to bring about major changes in our welfare system. Not only is he a Minister for Social Services who has great compassion but also he has great mathematical ability to enable him to work out these matters. I wish to discuss 3 issues concerned with this Bill: The concepts behind it, the unrealistic amendment moved by the Opposition and the relative levels of benefits that exist in Australia in comparison with the benefits overseas. As the Minister has made clear, 3 main concepts lie behind this Bill. The first of these is that the benefits should be available to all migrants and persons who fulfil the other prerequisites of the legislation and who come from countries with whom reciprocal arrangements have been concluded. This benefit is available to citizens and non-citizens alike. 
I cannot over-emphasise the importance of this provision. The act of renouncing citizenship of the country of one's birth is a serious and often traumatic experience and I fully understand the reluctance of many migrants to do so. We are all hopeful that migrants will eventually want to become naturalised citizens and participate fully in our community, but if they for their own good reasons do not wish to relinquish their original citizenship we should not seek to discriminate against them. This is what the Bill introduced by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  on 23rd March would have done. By limiting the provisions of his Bill to Australian citizens he invited this national Parliament to discriminate against a large section of our migrant community. Naturally the Government finds it abhorrent and rejects this discriminatory approach. 
The second guiding principle is to ensure that migrants do not lose out on any existing benefits through any unilateral action of the Australian Government. Proposed new sections 83ab and 83ac provide that this Government should enter into negotiations with other interested governments. I know that the Minister already has commenced this process so that reciprocal agreements can be reached. The Government does not want to act in such a way as would cause a migrant in receipt of a pension from, say, Germany to forfeit his entitlement. For instance, at present a German migrant who may be in receipt of a German pension, should he become a naturalised Australian, would forfeit his pension. The intent of the Bill is to provide that in any reciprocal agreement this German migrant could become naturalised without losing his German pension entitlement and, conversely, an Australian who is in receipt of some social service payment who goes to Germany and there becomes a naturalised German citizen would not lose his Australian rights. Such agreements serve to remove nationality as a qualification for entitlement. The Opposition would have us abandon this negotiating position and give away all our cards. Members of the Opposition are great ones for unilateral action whereby we do all the giving for precious little in return with only a minimum consideration for Australia's best interests - no less in social services than in foreign policy. They invite us once again to become party to the abandonment of the interests of many immigrants. Once again we will have no part of it whatsoever. 
I turn now to the guiding principles of residential requirements. Twenty years is not really such a long time and it could never be disputed that in 20 years a person makes a significant contribution to the community as a whole. I note with interest the Opposition's retreat on this point. The original Whitlam Bill was so sloppy that, for instance, a British widow could have resided here for a bare 12 months, qualified for an Australian pension and then quit the country taking the pension with her. Now that the error of his ways has been exposed to him by the Minister, the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  is more contrite and now will settle for a qualification period of 10 years. But even this means that after 10 years' residence a pension is payable. After all that is not long, say, for a young person of the age of 16. He has only to wait until he is 26 to qualify for an Australian pension at some future date and then leave the country. In those 10 years he may well have been in an educational institution for 6 years receiving Commonwealth Government assistance. Therefore, he may have contributed only 4 years of productive work to our community - not a bad deal for him. There would be 4 years of contribution in exchange for an extensive period of benefit. This would be a silly idea and an invitation to plunder the Australian Treasury and to milk the Australian taxpayer. Again, the Government rejects this proposal. Its own proposals are far more realistic and responsible. 1 turn now to say a few words about the value of the Australian pension in comparison with those that pertain in most of our migrant source countries. The Minister has been good enough to supply me with a few figures in this regard. If we simply take the age pension here as $18.25 for the single rate and $32.00 for the married rate - not counting things like supplementary assistance or extensive fringe benefits - and compare it with a few of our migrant source countries we find that we are way ahead. Naturally we are far ahead of countries such as Yugoslavia, which pays $14.90 for both single and married rates; Portugal, $6.62 for both; or Greece, $15.88 and $17.89 respectively. But more to the point, we compare favourably with those countries more akin to Australia in standards of living and earning. The current British rates are $13.15 single and $21.25 married and although some additional means-tested assistance is also available, its pension is treated as part of taxable income. The New Zealand rates are $17.10 single and $31.00 married. Perhaps the most surprising of these international comparisons is with affluent Switzerland where the current rates are $18.14 for the single rate and $29.02 for the married rate. I think this indicates quite clearly that the level of social services in Australia is high by comparison with the levels that apply in countries from which we get our migrants. As such, our social services may, in fact, be one of the things that will serve to attract migrants to Australia. If this is so, it further reinforces the Government's stand on the length of residence to qualify for payment. Similarly, I might mention also that any migrants who return home with their Australian pension at the latter part of their lives, living in some comfort on those payments, will in turn be very great ambassadors for Australia among their fellow countrymen. 
The Prime Minister first announced this measure at the end of January and the Minister subsequently has amplified some of that announcement. He said that he hoped that negotiations could be concluded as soon as possible - I believe he mentioned the end of this financial year as his target. If I remember correctly he announced in February that preliminary talks had been opened with 13 countries. I am sure that all honourable members want to see these talks concluded with a minimum of delay so that this scheme can come into operation. The Prime Minister's original announcement was to the effect that this proposal was an outgrowth from a detailed interdepartmental committee. This is yet further evidence of the very real concern that this Government shows for all aspects of migrant welfare. Honourable members on this side of the House see Australia's migrants as people with special interests that deserve our protection. Already I have mentioned to the House, as the Minister did some time ago, the ways in which the Opposition - in both its Leader's abortive Bill and now in its equally abortive amendments - has betrayed the real interest of the migrant community. This results from the fact that the Government treats migrants as individuals deserving to be treated as such whereas the Opposition sees them merely in terms of votes to be used for its own political advantage. What other explanation is there for the way in which the interests of the migrants have been so shamefully relegated to oblivion by the Australian Labor Party? (Quorum formed). 
In conclusion, I want to state once again that this Bill represents a remarkable advance in terms both of our national social welfare system and in the special regard which we pay to the interests of our migrants. I congratulate the Minister on his efforts in this regard. I am proud to be associated with the measure, and I give it my fullest support. I oppose the amendment which has been introduced in a shallow way. It contains the words 'whilst not opposing the Bill'. Why are honourable members opposite not game enough to come out and oppose the Bill? If they had done that they would have revealed the old attitude which they adopt to migrants. 
Can the Minister for Primary Industry tell the House how the extension of the Yennora wool handling centre and all the necessary plant and equipment is to be financed? Will not the initial costs at Yennora be higher than those at Pyrmont? Would not regional handling be more efficient and in the interests of growers and all associated with this great industry, and would it not be a boon to decentralisation? 
This morning I wish to speak on the desirability of Parliament setting up a Press council to cover the Australian Broadcasting Commission, television, radio and all mass media, the personnel of such a council to be representative of all sections of the mass media. Its purpose would be not to supervise or interfere with the conduct of the mass media but to act as a vigilante in regard to news matter, current affairs and advertising. For years I have taken issue with the ABC on its presentation of news and current affairs programmes and I have asked questions of the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme),  the ministerial head of the Commission. In most of his replies he has supported and maintained the autonomy of the Commission. On one occasion he replied to me that if a citizen felt he had been maligned he had recourse to the courts. Of course he has, but only at great expense and with indefinite outcome. The point I want to make, especially in regard to television, is that once a man's image and character have been maligned by the ABC it is very difficult for him to correct that situation. The situation is different in regard to a newspaper report. A television station does not have the same viewing public every day whereas people read the same brand of newspaper each and every day. The Minister from his own observations now realises that something has to be done in regard to the ABC because he has found that the ABC has delegated some of its autonomous power not only to its executive officers but also to its employees who conduct interviews and appear on current affairs programmes. This has given a great degree of liberty to many people who previously did not have authority. All people love authority and most people abuse it. The Postmaster-General knows from his own observations, as I have already stated, that things are not as they should be. It has been the practice over the years that when a Minister is asked about 4 o'clock or 5 o'clock in the afternoon to appear on one of the current affairs programmes the same evening and is unable to do so, the interviewer or the  chairman  of the programme invariably has stated that the Minister declined to appear. I had experience of this when I was to appear on a programme with  Sir William  Gunn.  Sir William  could not attend and I said to the interviewer: 'I take it you will use the same phrase, He declined to be present? The reply was: No, we cannot do that because he is on his way to Brisbane'. I said: 'But in regard to Ministers who are phoned at 5 o'clock in the afternoon and who have a previous engagement you always say that they declined to attend'. 
In regard to an interview with  Mr Hawke  and  Mr Lynch,  Minister for Labour and National Service,  Mr Hawke  stated definitely that he would not participate in a debate with  Mr Lynch  and the interviewer rightly stated this. It has created a furore within the ranks of the hierarchy of the ABC. To think that anyone would have the impudence to state that  Mr Hawke  did not want to take part in a debate, and then to make that public. Well that is just too bad. 
I would prefer not to describe him. The time has arrived for us to take action. I understand that in the United Kingdom, the United States of America and Canada inquiries have been held into the advisability of setting up a Press council. This is most desirable because it would protect people against being maligned and smeared. It would also involve a stricter analysis of what was to be purveyed, and it would be of great benefit to Australia. It would introduce a fairness and a responsibility that is not now attendant in current affairs programmes which are now on radio and television. It is a most desirable objective to set up such a council. I am sure that it would be to the benefit of all Australians to have a fair and balanced programme produced from time to time. On one occasion when I spoke to the General Manager of the ABC about the imbalance in these sorts of programmes he replied to me that if the ABC waited until a balanced programme was produced, many of the programmes at present which go to air would not be produced. I pointed out clearly that it would be far better for them not to be proceeded with if they defamed a man or smeared his character and reputation. Surely a man's character and reputation are of greater value than a television current affairs programme. For those reasons I think that a Press council should be set up immediately because it would be of benefit to the viewers and to those taking part in the programmes. 
Is the Minister for Labour and National Service aware of the physical attack on  Mr Ducker  of the New South Wales Labor Council? Is this further evidence of the trend to violence in trade union affairs? 
 I trust that the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  does not get his patients as mixed up as he gets his economics. We have been showered with high-flown cliches by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and members of his Party, but this method has never fooled anybody, for 3 reasons. Firstly, economics has never been the Leader of the Opposition's strength and never will be.  His  representation was pitiful to behold and most members of his own Party fell asleep. Secondly, neither the Labor Party nor any member of it is free to speak on economic matters because the Party is dominated by the interests of its trade union power base and is controlled by the Federal Executive. (Quorum formed.) Thirdly, there is little substance of any significance that the Leader of the Opposition could find to enable him to attack the the Budget. He has ignored economic issues and has given us the familiar rendition of that old song: spend more, soak the rich, and be damned to the inflationary consequences*. 
The Labor Opposition condemns this Budget. The Government parties applaud it. The people want it. There is no doubt that the people of Australia have welcomed and want this Budget. They will make their attitudes clear on polling day. We have heard a lot of words about national goals. The Leader of the Opposition tells us that we need more planning in order to reach national goals. And what are the national goals he talks of? They are broad and windy generalisations. Who could disagree with them? Everyone is on the side of the angels. But the art of government is not the art of Madison Avenue. Slogans are not policies. Words are not deeds. We have goals, but they are not goals we impose on the Australian people. That is not our concept of democracy. The Budget is aimed at goals we impose on the Australian people. That is not our concept of democracy. The Budget is aimed at goals of importance to all Australians - growth and development; the adequate defence of our nation; the fostering of industry; the expansion of educational opportunity; and the continued betterment and extension of our social welfare system. 
Last week after the Budget all the Leader of the Opposition and  Mr Hawke  could talk about was last year's Budget. They could find nothing critical to say about this year's Budget. What they said about that of last year was fanciful. Look ing back we all know about the international monetary crisis which erupted soon after last year's Budget was brought down. Hindsight is a great wisdom builder. That crisis had rapid and drastic effects on our trading partners, with severe economic consequences. This country did very well to come out of it with the economy growing by 3 per cent - real, not just in money terms. Of course the Opposition does not acknowledge world economic problems and their effects on Australia. Its members cannot understand that we are an integral part of the whole. They are either ignorant of their real meaning or sidestep them in a one-sided portrayal of our current circumstances. They want it both ways. 
The Leader of the Opposition then talked about how Budgets should be framed - about forward planning and the like. The Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  said in the Budget Speech that we have been aided this year in our decisions on. expenditures by the 3-year forward estimates which the Treasury Department has been collating. Perhaps he missed the point. We heard also from the Leader of the Opposition that there was nothing in the Budget about incomes and prices policies. Our income tax measures are directly aimed at increasing incomes without adding to costs and, overall, we have carefully weighed our Budget measures in terms of their inflationary impact. The Budget is designed to stimulate the economy without adding to inflationary measures. 
But, we are told, there is no incomes and prices policy. We are told that other nations have such a policy. We are not told how our rate of inflation compares with that in other countries. There is a reason for this. The fact is that, taking the last 5 years, countries in the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development not following what are fashionably termed incomes and prices policies have on the whole tended to have less inflation than those which have. But it is trendy to talk of incomes and prices policies these days - so we are criticised for not following them. We do know, however, that the Labor Party, further showing its incapacity to be objective in economic management, has stated that it would have an arbitrary control of prices, but would not do anything to control maximum incomes. We certainly would have a one-sided system under Labor. But this is just one example of where it would be driven by trade union dominance. Just what sort of a prices policy the Labor Party would implement and how it would work in detail is something that Labor has not tried to tell us. 
The Leader of the Opposition did, in the end, come to talk about this Budget. He tried to say that it was an electioneering Budget - to hint that it was not a responsible Budget. But his effort was half-hearted and he was heard in deadly silence. We heard a lot before the Budget was brought down about how we, as a Government, would be irresponsible, for electoral purposes. We have never been that and the commentators and the Press, perhaps with some surprise, have acknowledged that we have brought down both a good and a responsible Budget based on sound economic judgment. That such a Budget should also be popular is, of course, a fact which pleases all on this side of the House. One reason for its popularity is that it is economically responsible. But, as to the Press, look what some leading newspapers had to say: 'A combination of political allure and fiscal responsibility', the Financial Review'; 'A vigorous Budget . . . that steers an intelligent course between generosity and responsibility', the Melbourne 'Sun'; 'A many faceted Budget of some sophistication', the Australian'; and 'A responsible Budget', the 'Age'. Members of the Opposition should read the 'Australian' today and see where their Leader is leading them. How does the Leader of the Opposition's assessment of the Budget stack up against those verdicts of "responsible', 'vigorous', 'intelligent', 'generous', 'sophisticated', and so on. lt does not stack up very well. 
The Leader of the Opposition dealt for some time with unemployment. This is a bit rich coming from the leader of a Party which is struck into paralysed silence on each occasion a major strike breaks out. The economy has been ruthlessly battered by industrial turbulence in the past year and it has been impossible to get a long enough respite to get recruiting back to normal. But the Leader of the Opposition has no stomach for action. This is blatantly clear and is summed up in Pickering's cartoon. 
The Labor Party has desperately and cynically attempted to exploit the employment issue for electoral purposes; it seems almost as if it wishes greater unemployment. We have said we are determined to get unemployment down and the Budget is aimed at doing so. Their wish will not be our command. The Leader of the Opposition's most trusted of colleagues are saying that unemployment will rise further. They wallow in it and are desirious of its escalation. The honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  has said that the Budget provides for only a  2  per cent growth in employment this year. He says that there is a need to find  190,000  new jobs each year and that  2  per cent growth is equivalent to only  90,000. 
This is a case of a deliberate scare campaign based on false arithmetic, spurious reasoning and tearing out of context a figure from the Budget documents. As to the arithmetic, the normal growth in jobs is  170,000,  not  190,000  and the  2  per cent growth in the work force is  115,000,  not  90,000.  So the alleged gap is  55,000,  not  100,000.  But that is not the end of it. The  2  per cent that has been quoted comes from Statement No.  1  attached to the Budget Speech, lt is explicitly stated there that the  2  per cent estimate relates 'to year on year comparisons - that is  1972-73  on  1971-72'.  The Statement then goes on to say: 
During 1972-73, however, growth in employment ... is expected to be greater than suggested by the foregoing- 
That is  2  per cent -  figure. 
In simple terms what this means is that the rate of growth in employment from now on will be faster than the rate of growth in employment in  1972-73  as a whole compared with  1971-72  as a whole. The fact is that the Budget Estimates are consistent with unemployment being significantly lower at the end of the current year than at the start. The Australian Labor Party, in handling the question of employment, shows at best ignorance and misunderstanding, and at worst misrepresentation. Everyone knows that this Budget will bring unemployment down. One of its basic economic purposes is to create circumstances which will attack unemployment. Those who do not agree must be saying that an even more stimulatory budget was necessary. But we got no clear message from the Leader of the Opposition on that aspect. That is in the 'too hard' basket. The attitude is: Best blur the criticism and try, without being too explicit, to have it both ways. We believe, however, that the Budget is directed towards stimulating activity where it is needed - at the consumer level. We believe that conditions are right for an early resumption of strong growth in activity and that the short term difficulties with employment will pass and we in Australia will return to the full employment situation which has been the envy of the world. 
Let us look at some other alleged facts presented to us by the Leader of the Opposition. He said that the pension increases simply return pensioners to the position they were at before inflation eroded the purchasing power of their pension. I challenge him to take any past year he chooses and show that the standard rate pension today has not risen faster than prices. Of course, the claim is nonsense. And if we are talking about the recent past, in the past 18 months we have increased the standard rate pension by 29 per cent. Over that period the consumer price index rose by 9 per cent. Those are the facts. 
In addition we have in this Budget doubled supplementary assistance to pensioners paying rent and have extended eligibility to married pensioner couples. So a single pensioner paying rent will receive an increase of $3.75; a married couple paying rent will receive $6.50; a single pensioner paying rent will receive $24; a married pensioner couple paying rent will receive $38.50 per week; and in addition each will receive fringe benefits. The Leader of the Opposition also claimed that the increase in the free income limits simply restored them to earlier real levels which had been eroded by inflation. Again he was ignorant or was deliberately distorting the facts. He was so wrong that I will not bother to cite the figures beyond pointing out that we have increased the free income limits in this Budget by 100 per cent. Why cannot the Leader of the Opposition get his facts right? He finds it so much easier to speak in generalities. 
We are dedicated to the eradication of relative poverty in this country and to the raising of the living standards of all citi zens, particularly those who are in difficult circumstances. In the difficult process of determining spending priorities, our welfare programme shows how highly we regard the need to achieve an equitable distribution to upgrade the living standards of those who most need it. 
What does the Leader of the Opposition say about our tax measures? He gives  a  grudging welcome to the increase in the minimum taxable income though he falls into the trap of claiming that we have merely abolished a tax that costs more to collect than it is worth. Actually, only a moderate reduction in administrative costs results from the raising of the exemption limit. On the restructuring of the scale we have heard some rather forced complaints. It has been said, for example, that more should have gone to lower income earners. Of the total amount of tax forgone by the restructuring of the scale and the raising of the minimum taxable income, 57 per cent goes to persons with taxable incomes below $4,800 and three-quarters - or 75 per cent - to persons with taxable incomes below $6,400. Less than 10 per cent goes to persons with taxable incomes above $12,000. Those figures may dispose of some of the more fanciful comments made by the Leader of the Opposition. 
We do not believe that the modest amount of revenue which might be gained if the marginal progression were steepened beyond, say, $8,000  a  year in order to limit the benefits of tax reductions to higher income earners would be either fair - remembering the level of those marginal rates now - or productive, given the impact on incentives. The new scale provides for a marginal rate of tax of 54.6c in the $1 at $12,000. If the Leader of the Opposition thinks that this marginal rate is much too low let him say so. 
In regard to dependants' allowances, we have heard the same old story that one man's wife is worth more than another. This is a superficial argument, like so many others. Let me quote from the Canadian Royal Commission on Taxation: 
Equity has 2 dimensions. Horizontal equity requires that individuals and families in similar circumstances bear the same taxes. Vertical equity requires that those in different circumstances bear appropriately different taxes. 
The fact is that it is the income tax scale which is designed to ensure equity  as  between higher and lower income groups - that is, vertical equity. Dependants' allowances are a means we use to make more equitable the tax burden as between persons on the same income but in different family circumstances. Ability to pay is not merely measured by gross income but also by how many are dependent on it. Concessional deductions go some way towards bringing persons in similar economic circumstances back to a similar tax position - to recognise the principle of horizontal equity about which the Leader of the Opposition chooses to know nothing. 
We believe that the increase in dependants' allowances will be widely welcomed and will help particularly the single income family with children. The great bulk of the benefits will go to people on lower and medium incomes. What would  Mr and Mrs Everybody  say if asked individually? 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. When the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  spoke earlier this evening he said that I repre sented the Castle Hill area but had done nothing about the building of a hospital in that region. I want to tell him now that 1 am in collaboration with the  chairman  of the district hospital and also with the New South Wales Minister for Health on that issue. I presently have a full submission before the Federal Minister for Health  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson).  The honourable member for Prospect also referred to the possible location of an international airport at Richmond. I want to tell him that the forces I have assembled ensure that there is.no possible chance of an aerodrome being established at Richmond, New South Wales. 
 Mr Speaker,  you know I always ask short questions. My question is directed to the Minister for Repatriation. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to an article in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' headed 'Service Pensions a Scandal'? Will he clarify the position? Is it not a fact that over the years thousands of ex-servicemen who had been refused repatriation benefits had these benefits granted subsequently when additional evidence such as hospitalisation and Service conditions was put forward? Is it not almost impossible for an ex-servicemen who has suffered the effects of gas to establish his rights and privileges? Would it not be better for a few men to get benefits they are not entitled to - 
I wish to correct a personal explanation I made which is reported at page 833 of Hansard of 29th August. Referring to the Leader of the Opposition, 1 stated: 
He went to the electorate of Chifley, an area that 1 have to service very fully, where the State member took no interest - 
You will remember,  Mr Speaker  that you told me I could not debate the question. I was referring to that part of the electorate of Chifley which takes in the State area of Wentworthville. The honourable member to whom I referred was  Mr Quinn.  Let me give one incident as an example. A young married couple with 7 children was to be evicted by the Housing Commission of New South Wales. I asked the young man why he had not interviewed  Mr Quinn.  He replied that he had and that  Mr Quinn  had advised him that he could do nothing for him and told the lad to endeavour to find another house to rent. I took the matter up with the Housing Commission which at first remained adamant but which, on further strong representations by me, agreed to withdraw the court order.  Mr Jim  Southee is the State member for Mount Druitt. He is one of the good and great members of the Australian Labor Party, a similar type to the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  and the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Mclvor)  - a man of great conviction and dedication.  Mr Southee  has done a great job in and out of Parliament. He has applied himself diligently to the work, of the Parliament, his constituents and the community. He was  chairman  of the Blacktown Hospital Board for many years and proved himself to be an administrator of outstanding ability. Further, he befriended the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage).  It would be true to say that, but for Jim Southee, the honourable member for Chifley would not be the member for Chifley. 
The honourable member for Chifley repaid  Mr Southee's  kindness, assistance and help by, as  Mr Southee  states, stabbing him in the back and prevented him from gaining preselection for Mount Druitt. I want to advise the House that the honourable member for Chifley has done the community a disservice that the people will not forget nor forgive. I am advised that the honourable member for Chifley was afraid to attend a ball in Blacktown for fear of being hooted. This reminds me of a question posed to me by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Murphy).  He asked whether I thought the ALP had found a seat for the honourable member for Chifley that not even that honourable member could lose. I replied that I had my doubts.  Mr Southee  assisted the honourable member for Chifley to gain preselection, at the special request and behest of the then  President  of the New South Wales branch of the ALP. I am informed that he was a disturbing and dislocating influence within the branch.  Mr Southee  did not desire to do as requested, because of the loyalty of local people who had assisted and worked for him over the years. However, he acceded to the request and canvassed for the honourable member for Chifley against his better judgment. 
Now I want to deal with the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  He does not know that the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  and the Government have opened up regional employment offices at Parramatta, Hornsby and Blacktown, a district office at Penrith and an agency at Windsor which social service officers attend regularly. This would not entail the travelling suggested by the Leader of the Opposition. He knows full well of my servicing of the electorate and that I have not absented myself from my electorate for one day since being elected to this Par liament 9 years ago, except on parliamentary and official business. Earlier this year the Leader of the Opposition was so disturbed at the unemployment position that he left for overseas with a retinue larger than Molotov had in his heydey. The Leader of the Opposition once represented a portion of the present electorate of Mitchell. I have gained pensions for people whom he told he could not assist. One outstanding example was that of a woman whom he told he could not help further. I got her a pension within a week. The irony, of course, is that had her case been properly presented in the first instance she would have been receiving a pension over a period of 7 years. 
I desire to express my appreciation to the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  and to all those who were connected with the preparation of this Bill which declares the rates of income tax. It will be remembered that I was the first in this House to make representations in regard to the incidence to taxation on the middle income group which has increased considerably in numbers over the past 5 or 6 years. In regard to the incidence of taxation on the lower income group, especially those with young families and more especially those families in which there is only one income earner, the average reduction overall is 10 per cent. The additional levy will be dispensed with. The application of the provisions of the Income Tax Bill 1972 will reduce income tax payments by $480m in a full year. Taxation has been too high; it has become a burden. It is right and proper that some alleviation should be granted forthwith, and this is what this Bill will achieve. In granting this alleviation emphasis has been placed on people with incomes of about 32,000 per annum. Primary producers will benefit under the averaging plan. 
The honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  made much play of the actual revenue that will accrue because of higher incomes which are now being earned in the community, but he failed to point out that the Government is responsible for the payment of incomes to about one-third of the Australian work force. The Government has to find money for the salaries and wages of this section of the work force and the increased cost of all the services that it provides. 
The second Bill which we are now debating, the Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 4) 1972. increases the concessional allowances for the maintenance of dependants and provides for a tax deduction in regard to expenses paid by taxpayers in improving their educational standards in relation to their employment. I think this provision should go further. It is just possible that it does and I would like the Minister for Supply  (Mr Garland),  who is seated at the table, to inform the House on this point. Because of technology and automation people are finding that job opportunities are diminishing, and they should be encouraged to take up new studies to fit them to obtain positions in other spheres of employment. 
I congratulate the Government upon the alleviations which have been made. We all would like to see them go further. I feel that the time is long overdue for a fuller review of taxation. Indeed this has already been promised. To do as the Opposition suggests, that is to make certain further amendments to the taxation laws, would only add to the increased tax work we are now doing. The whole taxation position should be reviewed and a new Bill brought in to cover the whole spectrum of taxation. 
I congratulate the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  on his vision, his enthusiasm and, above all, his understanding and his humanity in the administration of aged persons homes. The proposal before the House is that a subsidy will be paid to nonprofit making homes to enable them to break even - that is, so that they will not be out of pocket. The homes will be allowed up to $5 a week for each encumbent so that the residents may purchase personal necessities for their own use. Up to date, the difficulty has been that where the survivor has been left alone at an advanced age, in many cases that person finishes his life in a nursing home, though he would be better off in the sort of home for which this Bill gives assistance. 
It is surprising how many people who are in nursing homes would be much happier and contented and better served in an aged persons home. Statistics that I have seen show that up to 50 per cent of the inmates in nursing homes do not require nursing home attention. In point of fact, loneliness is their main difficulty. They need someone nearby with whom they can converse and exchange confidences and, at times, to supply minor services and assistance. Very often the survivor is left in a family home which is far too commodious and which, because of its size, creates difficulty with which the aged person cannot cope. Experience has shown that where one is left alone, one becomes disinclined to prepare meals. There is a tendency to live on prepared meals such as bread and butter, cake and the like, instead of having a balanced diet with nutritional value. 
A medical friend of mine has studied this problem overseas. He went to various food producing services and when he returned to Australia he found that a good number of aged people, especially, as I stated, where only one person remained in the family home, did not go to the trouble of preparing a well balanced meal. Under this scheme to assist aged persons homes, a subsidy will be paid not merely to encourage people over 80 to live in such homes. The homes will be required to provide meals and to employ sufficient staff to help any residents who need assistance with bathing and dressing, the cleaning of their rooms, their personal laundry and the general oversight of their medication. It also requires that a staff member should be available on the premises at all times in case of an emergency. 
The honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  stated that, ostensibly, the services were only for people over 80 years of age. That is not in accordance with the Minister's wishes. The Minister stated: 
As  I  previously mentioned, the amount of the subsidy is calculated on the basis of the number of residents aged 80 and over. This provides an inducement for the accommodation to be made available to the frailer category of person. Nevertheless, it is a condition of approval that the personal care services  I  have referred to should be provided for any aged resident who needs services, whether over 80 or not. 
The services are being extended considerably. In my electorate there are 3 aged persons homes with a total of 174 beds. Previously, they did not participate in this scheme. However they will now receive a subsidy of about $1.25m. So, although the honourable member for Hughes said that this scheme does not embrace all that he would like, there are 3 homes in a small portion of Westmead and Wentworthville in New South Wales which will attract a subsidy of about $ 1.25m. 
The Minister for Social Services is to be congratulated. People who are now residing in aged persons homes and various institutions for aged people would be far better off if their families had the necessary conveniences to look after them and in another Bill to be introduced into the House, those families will receive $14 a week for looking after aged persons. Many aged persons homes which previously did not attract a subsidy and which were in business before 1954 will, because of their character and the services that they have rendered to the community, receive the total subsidy to which I have just referred. I congratulate the the Minister for Social Services and the Government on what they are doing in this regard. Comparisons are odious. Honourable members opposite have spoken about Sweden and Switzerland. Of course, they have been established for 1,000 years and they have the advantage of time. In most cases, they are pocket handkerchief size in area and they do not have the huge area with which Australia must contend. The Minister for Social Services should be proud on what he has accomplished. 
I was interested to hear what the honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison)  had to say. Despite his protest, high rise flats are being erected and are occupied, and from inquiries made the people living in them, with a few exceptions, are happy to remain there. Further, land prices continue to soar due to the demand for land for the erection of more high rise home units and flats. The Valuers-General in each State have reported that land values in and around an airport when it is established have risen. The Committee set up by this House in October 1970 to inquire into aircraft noise strongly recommended that the State planning authorities immediately plan for land use adjacent to airports, lt would appear that tocal government authorities are satisfied to permit further development around Mascot Airport. The report of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Aircraft Noise states: 
The Committee commends the various State Planning Authorities for the constructive thought given to forward planning. For its particular need the New South Wales State Planning Authority has appointed a specialist town planner experienced in airport neighbourhood planning. In its publication 'Sydney Region Outline Plan 1970 to 2000 A.D'., it proposed the expansion of Sydney Airport to include runways at Towra Point so that most aircraft take-offs and approaches would be either over the sea or over Botany Bay, rather than over residential areas. This proposal was intended to avoid building parallel runways on the inadequate area available at the existing site and to reduce the noise nuisance from the increasing number of jet aircraft movements expected in the future. 
For cities located on the sea board, the airports of the future will be seadromes, Many eminent engineers have forecast that all airports of the future will be of the seadrome type. The proponents of seadromes claim that they are more economical, do not usurp large tracts of land and the upkeep and maintenance costs are less than land based airports. 
With the huge capital investment at Mascot, which is about $400m - it would cost double that amount to replace - it would appear that the only logical approach to accommodate the air traffic of the future into Sydney is to extend the runways into Botany Bay towards Towra Point. This would reduce the noise nuisance to a minimum. Further, Sydney must be the most privileged city in the world. It would have the largest airport in the world within 7 miles of the heart of the city. I think that the Government was in error in bringing overseas consultants to Australia to carry out feasibility studies into the establishment of a second airport for Sydney. We have the engineers and the experts in all departments in Australia to advise the Government on all facts and features to provide for the civil aviation needs of Sydney for the next 50 to 70 years. 
I was interested to hear what the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  had to say, because if ever a man came into this House with pecularities and idiosyncrasies, it was the honourable member for Chifley. I did send those telegrams and I am proud that I sent them because I had the assurance of 2 Ministers for Air and 2 Ministers for Civil Aviation that the second airport would not be at Richmond. I had entree to the best brains in Australia in regard to this matter and I still can say without any equivocation whatsoever that Sydney's second airport will not be at Richmond. I can give honourable members a guarantee of that because the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  has stated that a full inquiry will be held. After the Commonwealth and State committees which are now investigating the scheme bring in their report, the Minister has promised that he will hear the experts in Australia in regard to this matter. I have received a letter from the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and he agreed with me that the second airport must be on the best possible site. Richmond could not be the best possible site because of the intensity of floods and fogs. People with the greatest brains and with more experience than those on the House of Representatives Committee, I have been assured by State ministers, will assist in every way possible. The agricultural college has to be considered, and the nightmare of all pilots is the Great Dividing Range. Over and above those things, people will not spend an additional $200, $300 or $400 to save 3 hours on a flight from England to Australia and then put up with having to travel another 2 or 3 hours to get into Sydney. How foolish can you be? There is no chance of the airport being at Richmond because of its locality and the difficulty of getting to the metropolitan area. 
The honourable member for Chifley made some scathing remarks about the Minister for Civil Aviation. The honourable member would do much better if he first plucked the mote out of his own eye before criticising others. The Minister has not misled anyone. The State committee came into the scheme of things and the Minister did state that he thought that the plans for the parallel runways would be ready by July. They were ready by July but the State committee wanted to see them, the engineers of the State Government wanted to see them, the State Planning Authority wanted to see them and the other departments involved also wanted to see them. The scathing remarks of the honourable member for Chifley about the Minister were unfair, unjust and unreal. The Minister gave us a promise and he will keep to it. All the top brains in Australia have been co-opted to deal with this matter. The people of Richmond who are opposed to the airport going there may be in the majority, and they may not, because there is a feeling on the part of some people that they would be wise to accept such a proposal. However, for the reasons I have stated - fog, flood, the existence of Hawkesbury agricultural college ind the Great Dividing Range  -  I can assure the people of Richmond that there is no possible chance of the airport being constructed there. 
The honourable member for Chifley should not talk so much. If he kept himself a little cooler and did not come to the meal table with a pipe in his mouth he would be much better respected in and around this place. A Commonwealth-State committee is dealing with this matter and the State people have as much concern and as much power as have the Commonwealth people. Again I assure the people of Richmond and of New South Wales that the second airport will be an extension of the present airport at Mascot into Botany Bay and Towra Point. People with better knowledge and more experience than I have assured me of that. The Minister has given an assurance that he will hear all representations, and the Prime Minister has given an assurance that the site selected must be the best in New South Wales. 

 Mr ARMITAGE (Chifley)-  Mr Chairman,  I want to make a personal explanation. 
The Minister made the same promise at Gosford. He has not abided by his promises. Therefore the honourable member for Mitchell misrepresents me when he says that I  wa3  wrong in my criticism of the Minister and that the Minister had kept his promise. It is very obvious that the Minister did not keep his promise. 
 Mr Chairman- 
The question be now put. 
Question put: 
That the amendment  (Mr Morrison's)  be agreed to. 
One must sympathise with the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren).  He gets his facts and figures terribly mixed up. He was speaking about public ownership and acquisition of land. The land values in New South Wales were brought about by the advent of the Cumberland County Council. From that day onwards New South Wales has had difficulty with rising land costs because of the attitude of the then socialist government of New South Wales in introducing control of land and land zoning and planning. Once anything is put under the counter a black market is created and that is what has occurred in New South Wales. But for the Cumberland County Council coming into operation and the strengthening of the Local Government Act of 1919 to make subdivisions much better and standards higher, this wretched position would never have arisen. When a black market is created, bribery and corruption result. The Cumberland County Council - I do not include it's executive officers - was so steeped in corruption and bribery that the then socialist government had to supersede it with the State Planning Authority. The State Government realised the wretchedness of the whole of the Cumberland County Council scheme and recognised that it had to do something. Unfortunately, and to its everlasting disgrace, the coalition of the Liberal Party and the Country Party, the present Government, took over the State Planning Authority. This has continued from time to time to increase- 
I rise to support this Bill and oppose the amendment moved by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  on behalf of the Opposition. It is with admiration that one enters this debate. I congratulate and praise the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  for his dedication and determination to improve the lot of those most in need and those who have been thrifty over the years but who, because of this thrift, have been in a worse position as a result of the anomalies that have existed and persisted over the years. Under this legislation single pensioners and widows with children are to receive an extra $1.75 a week which takes their pension to $20. This benefit will be received by 671,000 aged and invalid pensioners and widows with children. The married rate of pension is to be increased by $1.25 to $17.25 a week. Therefore the combined pension of a married couple will be $34.50. A total of 394,000 pensioners will receive this increased benefit. 
I am pleased to note that wives who have not reached pensionable age will receive a straight out pension of $17.25. 
Some 31,500 women will receive this benefit. This will bring the total of age, invalid and special pensioners to 1,096,500. Over and above this, the amount of supplementary assistance is to be doubled to S4 a week. I am pleased with the increase in supplementary assistance. I had an active interest in old age pensioner associations some years ago. At that time I advocated that supplementary assistance should be introduced. The alleviation of the means test will benefit 228,000 people who are now receiving a part pension. Also, an estimated 75,000 people will receive a part pension for the first time. I appeal to all people listening to this debate not to be advised by well meaning neighbours and friends about whether they are entitled to a part pension. They should seek advice from people who know and are qualified to give it. I find - my secretary has confirmed this - that there are hundreds of people within the electorate of Mitchell whom we have assisted to obtain part pensions when we made inquiry as to their means. However, there are still some people who are secretive about their financial position and affairs and do not like inquiries to be made in regard to their social service entitlements. I appeal to people in or near the electorate of Mitchell to get in touch with my office, myself or my secretary or if they live near Parramatta, to get in touch with officers of the Department of Social Services at Parramatta who can advise them. My secretary is ever able to give assistance in this regard and no-one will ever be turned away. I appeal particularly to people who are in receipt of superannuation to seek information and advice. 
This is the fourth separate occasion within 18 months on which the McMahon Government has increased pensions. Fortunately, the McMahon Government did not follow the advice of members of the Opposition to tie pensions to the consumer price index. Had the Government done so the pension for single persons would now be $16.74 instead of the new pension rate of $20 a week, and married couples would have received $29.70 instead of $34.50 a week which will be their entitlement when this Bill is passed. The Opposition boasts of what it would do if in power. However, its proposals are vague, costly and hard to understand by even those who advocate them. The pension today, despite increases in prices, will buy just about twice the amount of articles used in every day living that could be bought in the days when the Labor Party occupied the Treasury bench. This does not take into account any of the fringe benefits available to social service recipients. If we add the value of the fringe benefits, the position is further greatly improved. 
What is the Government's record in this field? The Government has achieved what it has promised. The Government will always carry out its promises. The Government seeks a continuing betterment of our social service programme. As the economic position, improves - as it will under the McMahon Government - so too will our social service amenities be improved. The great handicap of pensioners who do not own their own home is the high rent that they have to pay. This situation applies in particular to pensioners who live in rooms in the inner areas of our capital cities. However, as I have stated, the amount of supplementary assistance has been doubled and is now at $4. Unfortunately the level of rents is a State matter and it is difficult for this Government to do anything about the high rents that are being charged for accommodation in inner city areas. 
The proposal to liberalise and abolish the means test is summarised in the Budget Speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden).  As a prelude to the abolition, 3 measures will be introduced immediately. Firstly, the free area - the amount of means which does not affect the pension - is to be doubled. Secondly, the allowance for children in computing means is to be increased from $4 each to $6. Thirdly, there will be a special concession for recipients of superannuation and annuities. The free area for single persons is at present $10 a week. This is to become $20 a week. The free area for married couples' means is at present $17 a week. This is to be more than doubled to $34.50 a week. It will be noted that the principle has been adopted of making the free area equal to the maximum rate of pension, and since the pension is reduced by only one-half of the excess of means over the free area it follows that a partial pension is payable until means reach 3 times the maximum pension rate. 
Turning now to the special concessions to be applied for recipients of superannuation payments and annuities, where a pensioner is entitled to receive an income from superannuation or annuity the annual rate payable will be given a property equivalent for means test purposes by reference to a specific conversion factor contained in a schedule to be attached to the Social Services Act. The conversion factor will provide the present capital value of the superannuation payment or annuity. The conversion of the superannuation or annuity into property will be to the pensioner's advantage in the vast majority of cases, but if in any particular case this should not prove to be so the payments will continue to be treated as income. 
I trust that the Minister, with his great ability, compassion and intelligence will devote much of his time over the next year to collating the whole of our social service system and endeavour to have the entitlements of all people expressed in simple basic English that can be understood by the average person. 
I again congratulate the Minister and the Government on the easing of the means test, and I look forward to it being totally abolished within the life of the next Parliament. 
At times there have been some unfortunate statements and expressed opinions unfavourable to repatriation pensions and benefits. I say unfortunate' because over the years Australia as a nation has been proud of its attitude to its ex-servicemen. Our proud boast has been our interest in the welfare of our ex-servicemen and their dependants. Our concern for and admiration of our exservicemen have been greater than in other nations. However, great as it has been it is not sufficient and we should try to do more. In recent times some people have made unwarranted attacks on our repatriation system, hinting that many exservicemen are granted pensions to which they are not entitled. Such bold statements would be difficult to prove. I do not admit that any persons are receiving pensions to which "they are not justly entitled. On the other hand because of my long association with the Returned Services League, I know of many men who were entitled to pensions but have been denied same. Chairmen and members of repatriation tribunals have assured me over the years that any benefit of the doubt has been given to the exserviceman. Be that as it may, I have known of men who were denied pensions and who eventually gained same but only after years of hardship and suffering. 
Never before in the history of man have men endured and suffered as did the men of the First World War, and for anyone to state that their mental and physical strength had not been impaired as a result of their service, even though delayed for many years, is an indictment. I challenge anyone to prove that these men did not suffer tortures which were almost indescribable. The lived and fought in mud and slush infested with vermin and with rodents as dugout occupants. High explosive bombs would kill  3  or  4  men in a section. The other members of the section would be hurled to the ground but would be able to carry on for the time being. Does anyone suggest that this experience would not tell against them in later life? 
Thousands of men who were slightly gassed continued on duty. They were not hospitalised and did not receive medical treatment. So in later life, when beset by bronchial afflictions, they could not prove that this condition was caused by their war service. They endured massive bombardments and they had to follow creeping bombardments within 100 yards. 
I instance the case of one such gas victim. For years he was refused a pension. In despair I requested his wife to bring me all his papers, pay books and similar documents. In his pay book under the date 17th June 1971 I found the entry: 'Slightly gassed; continued on duty'. It was signed by A. W. Smith, Lieutenant. A fresh application was made and within one month he was granted a TPI pension, but he should have received such a pension some 10 years earlier. 
Let us consider the men of the Second World War, particularly prisoners of war who worked in copper mines at temperatures of up to 120 degrees with only a loin cloth about them. After 12 hours in sweltering heat, without nourishing food, they had to trudge through tunnels with temperatures below zero. Surely no sane person would say that ailments that beset these men in later life could not have been attributable to war service. Let there be no humbug about repatriation. I was pleased to hear the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  say that the people of Australia would stand behind what they said. I am sorry that our ex-servicemen have not secured more recognition by way of monetary assistance for the damage their bodies and minds have received. 
The Bill increases the rate for a single TPI pension from $44.50 a week .to $48 a week. This is in addition to increases of $2 a week last April and $3.50 a week last September. In 12 months, therefore, the TPI rate of pension, which is also paid to those temporarily totally incapacitated, the blind, certain tuberculosis sufferers, certain double amputees and by way of sustenance allowance to those receiving treatment in hospital, or prolonged outpatient treatment which prevents them working because of their accepted disability, has been increased by $9 a week. Additionally, as those who qualify for the TPI rate of pen sion also qualify for service pension on the grounds of permanent unemployability, or invalid pension, increases in the means test pensions, and also the easing of the means test, have further considerably improved the financial position of the special rate pensioners. For example, a single TPI pensioner with no means affecting his service or invalid pension, other than his war pension, was paid a total of $40 prior to last year's Budget and will receive a total of S54 a week following the passing of this legislation. A married TPI pensioner and his wife with negligible means other than war pension, who received a total of $59.29 prior to last year's Budget, will receive a total of $77.79 a week as a result of this year's Budget. 
Apart from the direct payments made to these pensioners they also qualify for a number of very worthwhile fringe benefits such as free medical treatment, telephone, wireless and television concessions and, for those of them who are very seriously incapacitated, there are additional payments such as attendance allowance and recreation transport allowance. Of course, if they have dependent children as well, benefits by way of pension and education assistance are available in various forms and at various rates until the completion of tertiary education. 
The intermediate rate is payable to those who are incapacitated to the extent that they cannot engage in continuous full time work. It will be increased from $31.25 to $34 a week. The intermediate rate is a very important development of recent years. It was introduced in 1965 and is designed to allow those who are seriously incapacitated, and unable to hold down a regular full time job, to remain useful members of the work force as long as possible. 
About 190,000 repatriation general rate pensioners on 100 per cent pension will benefit from this year's increase of $2 a week. Additionally some of them also will benefit from other proposals such as the increases in the amounts payable under the fifth Schedule for amputations or the loss of an eye. The new 100 per cent rate will be $14 a week. It is payable to those who suffer incapacity as a result of their war service but who, solely because of that incapacity, are not prevented from working, notwithstanding that they may be considerably handicapped in many respects. For those who also receive a special compensation allowance at the 100 per cent rate, the total weekly payment will be $20. 
Prior to last year's Budget most war widows received a total payment by way of war pension and domestic allowance of $24 a week from the Repatriation Department. A large number of them were also eligible for an additional amount of $8.50 a week by way of social service pension if their means, other than their repatriation pensions, were negligible. As a result of the provisions of this Bill those war widows in future will receive $28.50 a week repatriation benefit and $15.75 a week social service benefit which represents a total increase over the 12 month period of $11.75, giving them a total weekly income of $44.25. In addition to these payments war widows are entitled to a number of valuable fringe benefits from the Commonwealth. If they have children undergoing education they receive the full benefits of the soldiers' children's education scheme which covers them till the completion of their tertiary education. Apart from those benefits, war widows are entitled to repatriation medical facilities throughout life and their children are entitled to free medical treatment up to the age of 21 years if they are undergoing full time education. If necessary a war widow can receive training to enable her to undertake employment. 
Service pensions are available to cxservicemen and ex-service women if they have suffered from tuberculosis or have served in a theatre of war and are 60 years of age, if a man, and 55 years of age, if a woman, or are permanently unemployable. In the past 12 months there have been 3 increases in service pension rates. In addition, this year there has been a considerable easing of the means test. Apart from the resultant substantial benefits to those already receiving service pensions, many of whom also receive war pensions, a large number of people could qualify for service pensions for the first time. The service pension rate for a single exserviceman has increased from $16 to $20 a week in the last 12 months and combined payments to a husband and wife who are both in receipt of service pensions have increased from $21.25 to $34.50 a week. For many service pensioners, a number of fringe benefits are also available from Commonwealth sources. 
There were 3 important proposals in relation to repatriation allowances for children included in this year's Budget. Firstly, the living allowances payable to children eligible for benefits under the soldiers' children's education scheme will be increased. This will be done under the authority of repatriation legislation and no reference to those increases is, therefore, included in this Bill. Secondly, and this is a major improvement which will be available to all children whose parents receive war pensions but do not receive substantial Commonwealth assistance specifically related to the maintenance of a child doing full-time education, the Repatriation Act will be amended to allow the war pensions of those children undergoing full time education to continue until the children reach  ?.l  years of age. In these days of technological change there is an increasing need for children to undertake higher education to fit them for their future roles as citizens and anything that can be done to assist them to that end should be done. Such assistance is already being given by way of Commonwealth scholarships but since not every child receives such a scholarship, the proposal to continue the payment of war pensions to children undergoing full-time education but not receiving other substantial Commonwealth assistance towards riving costs until they reach 21 years of age is a very commendable step forward. Thirdly, the war pensions payable to those children who have lost their father as a result of war service and to those who have lost their mother have been increased again so that now the former group will receive $7.35 a week and the latter group $14.70 a week. 
The proposal to provide the major part of the cost of nursing home care for totally and permanently incapacitated pensioners, intermediate pensioners, war widows and 1914 war nurses is very commendable. As the weekly amount which these pensioners will be required to contribute towards the cost of their maintenance in a nursing home in all cases is less than the maximum amount they can receive by way of Commonwealth pensions, these proposals will completely remove the worry and expense which many of them and their relations have had to bear. Over 300,000 people will benefit from the repatriation proposals in this year's Budget. Total repatriation expenditure for a full year will increase by about $40m to over $400m. As the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten)  has pointed out, during the last 3 years many of the rates of repatriation pensions have increased in excess of the increases in various economic indexes. The Government's achievements in the repatriation field are beyond the scope of valid criticism. Letters of appreciation of the Government's proposals this year already have been received from various ex-service organisations. They have expressed their gratitude for the consideration which has been given to repatriation pensioners. We can never sufficiently reward those men who endured so much for Australia and the world for their suffering and anguish not only during the war but also since the war ended. We have in the Minister for Repatriation a man of compassion, of understanding and of good will. There is not one honourable member opposite who could say that the Minister has not been of help whenever they have required his assistance. I have had to contend with many difficult cases and he has gone out of his way to help me. He has even called in his Director and, his senior medical officer. There is nothing that he would not do for any repatriated soldier in this country. No better man could be in the position of Minister for Repatriation and I am sorry that the honourable member for Wills spoke as he did. Apparently he does not realise the character and stature of the man who is Minister for Repatriation. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Immigration. Have our greatest years of prosperity been when Australia received an influx of migrants? Is it a fact that the Labor Government of Western Australia, prior to the Brand Administration, refused to take migrants and that that State had the greatest incidence of unemployment? Was the position reversed when the Brand Administration took office and welcomed migrants? 
Is the Minister for Trade and Industry aware that 4 Australian factories producing polythene coated cotton gloves have gone out of production and have closed down? Is he aware that the only surviving company - MSA - producing these gloves is awaiting a decision from the Tariff Board but cannot carry on beyond the end of this month unless it receives tariff protection? Is it possible for a decision to be made this week? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In view of Press reports in this morning's newspapers of the communique issued in Djakarta by the Minister and the Indonesian Minister for Mines, will the Minister say whether Australian petroleum exploration areas have been greatly affected? 
1 will give a resume of the Commonwealth-State housing agreements. Under the housing agreements which operated for 15 years to 30th June 1971, the Commonwealth made substantial long term loans totalling more than $ 1,509m to the States for the provision of housing. These loans were repayable to the Commonwealth over a period of 53 years and attracted interest at a concessional rate of 1 per cent below the long term Commonwealth bond rate applying at the time each advance was made. Each State was required to divide the advances it received each financial year into 2 parts. One part was for the erection of dwellings by the State housing authority and the other part, not less than 30 per cent of the advances, was for the provision of loans to persons wishing to buy or build a home privately through building societies and certain other approved institutions. Each State maintains a Home Builder's Account for this purpose. 
Of the $l,509m advanced to the States over the 15 years to 30th June 1971, $ 1,024m was allocated to the State housing authorities which up to 30th June 1971 built some 145,000 dwellings with these moneys for rental or sale to families and other persons of low or moderate means. The remaining $485m was channelled through the Home Builders' Accounts in which additional moneys amounting to approximately $147m became available for lending due to the revolving nature of the accounts. The purchase or construction of some 91,000 homes was financed from Home Builders' Account moneys up to 30th June 1971. 
Under these housing agreements, a State was required, if requested by the Commonwealth, to set aside in a financial year an amount not exceeding 5 per cent of the loan funds allocated to its State housing authority for the construction of dwellings for letting to serving members of the defence forces. The Commonwealth was obliged to make supplementary advances to the State to match any amount so set aside. Some 12,500 dwellings for rental to servicemen were completed by the State housing authorities under these arrangements up to 30th June 1971 in addition to the 145,000 dwellings mentioned earlier. 
Since 30th June 1971, the agreement arrangements have been replaced by Commonwealth housing assistance to the States in the form of cash grants under the States Grants (Housing) Act 1971. 
Replacing the previous assistance by way of a 1 per cent interest concession on Commonwealth advances, financial assistance to the States since 1st July 1971 is being made available through the States Grant (Housing) Act in the form of 2 types of grants - a basic housing grant and a rental assistance grant. The basic housing grant is an amount of $2.75m per year, payable for a period of 30 years, in respect of State housing activities in each of the 5 years from 1971-72 to 1975-76. This will give the States $4 12.5m over 34 years. A condition of payment of this grant is that, as under the housing agreement arrangements, at least 30 per cent of each State's allocation for housing each year is allocated to a Home Builders' Account. The grant will be. applied to assist financially both State housing authority activity in relation to the rental or sale of dwellings to eligible applicants and the operations of the home builders' accounts from which advances will continue to be made to building societies and other approved institutions for lending to people of moderate means who wish to purchase private homes. 
The rental assistance grant is $ 1.25m a year for each of the 5 years from 1971-72 to 1975-76. It is a general Commonwealth contribution towards the cost to State housing authorities of charging reduced rents to families that they regard as needing assistance. Both of the grants are being distributed on a fixed percentage basis agreed between the States and laid down in the States Grants (Housing) Act 1971. The States are not now required to set aside any portion of the advances allocated to State housing authorities for the construction of homes for rental to serving members of the defence forces. All moneys required for this purpose are being advanced by the Commonwealth under a separate arrangement, thus releasing more State funds for civilian housing. 
I turn now to consider the dwellings for aged pensioners scheme. This scheme was introduced by the States Grants (Dwellings for Aged Pensioners) Act 1969 to provide the States with additional financial assistance for the accommodation of single aged pensioners at rentals they can afford to pay. An eligible pensioner is one who is in receipt of an age pension or a repatriation service pension because of age and is in receipt of supplementary assistance, sometimes known as a rent allowance. The Act provides for the Commonwealth to make non-repayable grants to the States totalling $25m over a 5-year period that commenced on 1st July 1969 for the construction of self-contained dwelling units for pensioners. 
To 30th June 1972, the end of the third year of the scheme, a total of 177 building schemes had been approved. These building schemes will provide 2,748 units of accommodation at an estimated total cost of $19.6m. Up to 30th June 1972, 1,654 of these units had been completed and grants totalling more than $ 13.5m had been paid to the States. The rents charged to these pensioners ranged from $2 to $3.70 a week. Had time permitted I would have referred to housing for Aborigines and to flats for migrants. However, I will now turn to consider the amendment. It is a great pity that the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  has so little practical experience of development and home building, matters with which he is concerned as a shadow Minister. Leaving Canberra aside, the people of Australia would not have anything to do with leasehold land, lt has been tried in various areas of Newcastle over the years. In regard to leasehold land for homebuilding and annuities Australians are entirely differently disposed from the people in Britain and the United States of America. As great a gambler as an Australian is, he will not have a bar of annuities. 
An Australian home builder wants to build his home on his own dunghill, on his own land. He will not have anything at all to do with leasehold land. I know that the honourable member for Reid is honest and sincere in what he is endeavouring to do but his knowledge is theoretical and is limited to what he has heard. If people like the honourable member for Reid had got behind me 15 or 16 years ago the present position in Sydney would not apply. It was brought into being by the Labor Government of the time, and to the discredit of the present Liberal Government it has unfortunately been perpetuated. There is nothing to be proud of in the fact that Sydney will eventually have a population of about 6 million people. We should hide our heads in shame. About 15 years ago I recommended that 3 cities be built in the hinterland of New South Wales, one to be built at Port Stephens which has the greatest harbour in the world. At that time there was no sign of people like the honourable member for Reid talking about regional development. No-one came to assist me to stop the bribery and corruption in the Cumberland County Council. We have the Labor Party in New South Wales to thank for the present state of Sydney. 
Is the Minister for the Interior aware of the disorganisation and dislocation that have occurred when computers are first installed? Is he satisfied that every precaution has been taken to ensure that the computerised electoral rolls are correct and that persons have not been disfranchised? Will he protect the staff of the Divisional Returning Officer from the regular statement when errors occur that the computer was fed the wrong information? 
I would not have joined in this debate tonight but for all the poppycock we have heard from the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  and others. What they have forgotten to say is that the growers in New Zealand refused outright an acquisition scheme. I suppose I would have the most fan mail from wool growers all over Australia. If a ballot of wool growers were to be held there would not be a chance at this time of obtaining a majority decision in favour of an acquisition scheme. The Opposition has glibly moved an amendment but it did not tell us the meaning of the word 'acquisition'. It did not tell us how it would finance the scheme or what scheme is proposed to be brought in. The wool industry suffered and reached its lowest ebb because of the kind of talk that we hays heard from the Opposition here tonight. 
The users of wool - the Japanese and the International Wool Textile Organisation - were in such a frustrated position at the end of 1970 and 1971 that they did not know what to do in regard to the purchase of wool because the stage managed meetings of growers throughout the length and breadth of Australia using the phrase 'single marketing authority' created doubts and fears in the wool industry. We are going through a happy time in regard to prices because of the Japanese shipping strike. Because of the uncertainty in 1971 they are now refurbishing their stocks. The manmade fibres have been on the blink, fashions have changed, and we are in this happy position. I plead with the Government, with all the sincerity at my disposal, to cast away all the socialistic legislation, to allow the law of supply and demand and to allow the system to maintain itself. It will never maintain itself. Let us not have governmental interference as suggested by the Labor Party. Give a public servant one table and a chair or two at the beginning of the year and he will have 300 people around him at the end of the year. We would have such a huge commission that we would have more public servants than sheep. They would shear and get the benefit of the wool. 
The Government has made provision that, if the growers change their mind in regard to acquisition, they have the right to approach the Minister. If they did so, we would go right into the matter and study the finance of the system that was put up. If the growers were in favour of it, then we could go ahead. We must remember that since 1950 many proposals have been put to the growers and each and every time they have been rejected. If the proposal were put to the growers again, it certainly would be turned down. 
1 address a question to the Prime Minister. When did the purchase of aircraft for Laos, Nepal and Cambodia actually commence? Is he now in a position to confirm the date on which Cambodia accepted the offer of DC3 aircraft from the Australian Government? 
We have heard one of the most unenlightened speeches that could be heard from the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  who, I understand, has done very well out of the development of Canberra. He owns many properties. He has done very well under the scheme operating there. But he must remember that it is only in the last 2 years that the Opposition has taken an interest in the type of development which has been taking place whereas for the past 18 years I have been proclaiming this type of development throughout Australia. It was not until professors from the universities of Oxford and Cambridge came to Australia within the last 5 years and stated how stupid our whole development was and that something had to be done to correct this situation - it would not be more than 2 or 3 years ago - that the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  took an interest in this matter. It was as plain as the nose on one's face that something had to be done about the conglomeration of population in the capital cities of Australia. They did not come to my aid 15 or 16 years ago when I told the people of Australia what was going on and that we could not have these capital cities based on the seaboard extending into the hinterland some 30 or 40 miles. One did not have to be a mathematician of any great ability to understand that such cities would create problems and be costly to service. 
Where were the honourable member for Reid and the Leader of the Opposition then when I was fighting and foretelling what would happen? What did they do? Did they come to my assistance and help me get rid of the wretched Cumberland County Council. Did they come to my aid and support my efforts to stop the wretchedness of offering the young people of New South Wales this type of living at a time when I was advocating that we should have 3 cities in the hinterland and a city at Port Stephens where there is a greatest harbour in the world? No, because the Labor Party had brought in the Cumberland County Council and friends and relatives of party members owned land in and around Liverpool. That is where industrial development took place in those days to the exclusion of other places in New South Wales and especially of my area of Blacktown which was bereft of industrial complexes. I went around the district with Thomson and Scougall Industries which required 40, 50 and 60 acres there in those days and  Mr Scougall  wanted to transfer his business to Blacktown from Redfern. But what were we met with? We were met with a blank wall because the authorities wanted to divert Thomson and Scougall to Liverpool where their Labor Party friends and relatives owned huge tracts of land. 
For the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory to talk as he did tonight shows that he has no knowledge of the problems inherent in the scheme then in existence. The Government of the day introduced this scheme in New South Wales and people who were injuriously affected by rezoning were to be compensated. The scheme would never have got off the ground had there not been a clause which provided that they would be compensated for injurious effects. Claims for compensation were made but these people who had owned land in these rezoned areas for 50 and 60 years were turned down. Where were the honourable member for Reid and the Leader of the Opposition 16 years ago when I saw what would happen to my kith and kin in New South Wales? Where was the Leader of the Opposition? Where was the honourable member for Reid? Only 7 or 8 years ago I called a big meeting at Blacktown to support the abolition of the State Planning Authority, one of the bodies which had brought about this wretched environment in which we were asking our kith and kin to live. Where were they? Why did not they stand up to be counted in those circumstances? They did not because of the spurious way in which the Labor Party went about it. It created the great monster of Green Valley. But for the wonderful job of the Housing Commission in Mount Druitt it would have done the same thing there. The Housing Commission of New South Wales has done a tremendous job. But where were these people when Green Valley was promoted and when the Mount Druitt position came about? They did not care where our kith and kin lived as long as they were taken from one slum. I give the Housing Commission of New South Wales great credit for the work that it has done. Had we supplied the young people who have gone to Mount Druit with all of their requirements such as halls, places of amusement, places of culture and sporting grounds, we would have done a very good thing. 
As I said, we should have gone into the hinterland. Everything that the honourable member for Reid said and everything that the Leader of the Opposition said, and everything that is contained in this Bill, I propounded 15 years ago. Why were they not behind me then? Now that it has become a political band waggon, most people are propounding this idea. 
Much of what the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition (Mr Barnard) has said is true. Unfortunately anomalies occur. But if we endeavoured to correct them we would create further anomalies which are difficult to contend with. My secretary, who is an expert on all pensions, tells me that if the wife of a totally and permanently incapacitated pensioner is in reasonably good health her position is much better than is the position of others. But if she is in the unfortunate position where she is not in good health she is disadvantaged by the Government making this additional $11 a week available to the married TPI pensioner. I do not know how we can overcome this difficulty. The cost of paying this amount to all wives would not be considerable. In addition I understand that there are not more than 3,250 wives who are in this situation and that the number which is seriously affected is minimal. We should have compassion and do what we can to assist these people. I implore the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr 
Holten) to endeavour to find a system whereby this anomaly would be obviated or cured. The benefits in most cases have been widely acclaimed and accepted but unfortunately if we legislate to cover this problem we open up another very great problem. So I implore the Minister to give this matter further consideration. It may be that there is some way to overcome the situation where these people have to pay $1 for a prescription and an extra Si for the pharmaceutical benefits. 
The Government has boasted over the years of the respect and reverence in which it holds men who served this country in time of war. We may be proud of what we have done in this respect because I think I am right in saying, from what I have been informed, that what we have done for returned servicemen is far is excess of what any other nation has done. Be that as it may, it does not mean that we should not do more for them if it is within our power to do so. I appeal to the Minister to see what he can do to remove this anomaly. The married TPI pensioner is to get an extra $520 a year but there are a few people whose positions are importuned and made worse because of the illness of the wife. I am sure that the Minister with all his compassion and desire to help these people will look into this matter. Honourable members opposite should not laugh about this matter. We have never had a better Minister for Repatriation. It is all very well to make gibes but honourable members opposite should go out and do what the Minister is doing. They should go around and try to help these people. They cannot hold a finger of scorn at me because I have worked and fought for these people for 40 years. So they need not gibe at me. They should wash the mud out of their eyes, go out and do something as I have done almost every day of my life. I know that the Minister with his great understanding will endeavour to find some method by which he can assist these people. My secretary tells me, and she is an expert in these matters, that it is the TPI pensioner's wife who is really ill and requiring constant attention and repeated prescriptions who will suffer and I know the Minister will do his best to correct the position. 
