I should like to support the remarks of my colleague the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  and without denigrating him in any way I want to be more positive in what I have to say on the same subject. I rise tonight to express my own deep indignation at the Commonwealth Government's attitude towards a third generation Australian, a man who was Australian born, and a foreign correspondent for 28 years. Because of his frank writings concerning facts as he saw them he has been persecuted by this Government in that it has withheld from him a passport which is so important to his livelihood and is so important to his wife and three children. I refer tb Wilfred Burchett who, I believe, has the sympathy of the majority of the Australian electors at this time. I am surprised at the Government making another grave political blunder in view of the results of the election held on 25 th October last. 
I have always been of the belief that any Australian citizen, no matter what he has done or is alleged to have done at home or abroad, can never be deprived of his Australian nationhood or the shelter of his own country; but this Government has adopted the attitude of a leading Fascist country by preventing this internationally famed Australian journalist from entering his native land. I understand this right and privilege has been denied Burchett for 8 or 9 years. This man has pursued every lawful and diplomatic means to obtain an Australian passport. In the absence of evidence to the contrary I believe most of what I have had the opportunity to read in his book today. I recommend to fair-minded government supporters that they read the book and analyse for themselves what is true, what is slanted and what is untrue.  Mr Burchett  was deprived by the Government of the right to come home to his native land to see his 90-year-old father who was in the twilight of his life. It is something for which the Government should be utterly ashamed forever, as should every Government supporter who has supported this attitude. The Government has adopted an attitude in respect of this man which it has not adopted with some of the worst Nazi war criminals, to whom it has given shelter. I shall refer more to that aspect if time permits. 
What has Burchett done? What has been alleged against him to bring about this extraordinary action by the Government? We have read in some Australian newspapers that he interrogated Allied prisoners of war who had been captured during the Korean War. If we believe what we read in his book we know that he did interview prisoners of war. I should imagine that this would be the normal action of a foreign correspondent who was anxious to establish the truth so that he could report to the world. 
Empty vessels make loud noises. Several written statements and confessions obtained from Allied prisoners of war were brought to Burchett's notice. These related to the alleged use of germ warfare by ihe Allies, including the United States, in the Korean War when, it was alleged, germs were dropped over North Korea and northern China. Burchett does not hide the fact that he did interview prisoners. He even has given the Government the names of witnesses, should they be needed. In his book he states that he interrogated prisoners of war, whom he names. If 1 might interrupt my remarks, the honourable member for Reid has said that the Government could bring witnesses to Australia to give evidence and the Government should charge Burchett if he has committed an offence. It could be done more easily today than just after World War II. At that time I remember being in Central Police Court in Sydney when an Australian Army officer named Charles Cousens was charged with sedition, collaborataing with the enemy and broadcasting enemy propaganda over Radio Tokyo. The Government of the day brought out a female Japanese radio broadcaster, Tokyo Rose, or some other person from the Japanese radio station, to testify at his trial. If I remember correctly my respected Leader's father-in-law prosecuted for the Crown on that occasion. Witnesses were brought out from Japan then, so if there is any charge to be laid against Burchett the Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes)  should have no trouble in obtaining witnesses to testify whether Burchett interrogated Australian prisoners of war. Burchett has supplied the names of witnesses in his book 'Passport'. 
As for dropping bacteriological bombs on North Korea and China, let us face reality and truth. Does any man who has read anything about the Korean war believe that this was not done? Of course it was done. Any man who does not believe it is hiding his head in the sand. I personally believed it long before I read this book. When I was overseas I read a report by an international commission of scientists - one from Britain, one from Brazil and one from Poland - which, at the request of the North Koreans and the United Nations, personally investigated the charge. They obtained exhibits and carried out tests. Burchett spells this out clearly in his book. He explains that the Allies dropped canisters containing germ contaminated insects which could breed and in which there were an abundance of flies, fleas and mosquitoes and poisoned wheat which rats would pick up and further contaminate the community. I am more convinced than ever that we did break the Geneva Agreement made in about 1924 by resorting to bacteriological and germ warfare during the Korean War. This is to our everlasting shame and disgust, and it shames the flag of the United Nations. Let us be truthful about it. From the knowledge I have now I believe that the only crime Burchett has committed in the eyes of the Australian people and of the world is the crime of telling the truth, if it is a crime. Something that I will never be guilty of whilst I am a member of this Parliament 
Can the Minister for the Army say whether the Australian Government has any knowledge of the suggestion reported in the 'Cessnock Eagle' of 6th March and elsewhere concerning Australian soldiers serving as mercenaries in Laos? Has the Government co-operated in any way in having Australian soldiers, either before or after discharge, serve as mercenaries in Laos? 
I crave the indulgence of honourable members who are unaware of an article published in an editorial of the 'Cessnock Eagle' on Friday, 6th March. If the facts contained in the article are true - I have no reason to doubt them at this juncture - I think Government supporters should hang their heads in shame. Honourable members will recall my question addressed to the Minister for the Army  (Mr Peacock)  today. In brief, I asked the Minister whether the Australian Government had aided or co-operated in any way in having Australian soldiers, either before or after discharge, serving as mercenaries in Laos. The Minister said that he was not aware of the report in the newspaper to which I have referred and asked me to give him a copy. I immediately obliged. The article referred to is too lengthy for me to read in full to the House. It contains, to my mind, a shocking indictment against the present Government, an indictment on which any Australian magistrate, on having the evidence before him, would find a prima facie case made out against the Government and call upon it to answer the charge. 
The article alleges that the Australian Government has for the past 2 to 3 years had men involved in the war in Laos and that it would probably deny this emphatically. It alleges further that it is well known among foreign correspondents and military commentators that mercenary troops have been working in Laos for the past few years. Most of the troops are either New Zealanders, Australians or South Africans. The article states that when on leave these mercenaries hang out in the tenement flats of Earls Court, London, waiting for their next job. They spend much of their time at the Zambesi Club and are ready to talk to sympathetic looking journalists. The soldiers regard themselves as soldiers fighting for a cause which gives them no reward except money. They stated that they are well and truly covered by a comprehensive insurance scheme and that when one of them has his brains blown out his family is well cared for. The article states that they resent the nasty publicity they received in Nigeria and the Congo. 
They were interviewed by two young and forthright journalists whom I shall name. One was Kenneth Brass, formerly of the 
Sydney Morning Herald' in London and now believed to be with the London 'Daily Mail'. The other was a young Australian journalist, Brian Hungerford, who is now in Australia and who was formerly attached to the United Nations. These  2  journalists interviewed the mercenaries at the Zambesi Club at Earls Court. The soldiers stated that they were New Zealanders, South Africans and Australian. They said they were financed in part by the Australian Government to carry out their operations. They complained of being treated as thugs and murderers on their return to England. One soldier, believed to be an Australian, is reported as having said: 
We are just soldiers. We have the  same  problems other soldiers have. We are only fighting  boongs  but  boongs  with rifles are dangerous. 
This is a disgraceful statement to be attributed to any mercenary, particularly an Australian. The soldier said: 
We are getting 10 quid a day, or 70 quid sterling a week and a pay-off al: the end. We were bought to do a job like hold an airfield for 3 days so that the Government troops could make a Formal attack. 
The mercenaries said these things at the interview. They also said: 
All the dirty work we do. See, we can get in when the normal uniform troops cannot make it. That's why some of our boys are in Laos. The Aussie or the United Slates Governments cun't send in ordinary troops wearing uniforms. All the coons would start screaming in the United Nations about intervention and neutrality and all that. 
They are attributed as having said this to the  2  journalists I named. They also said: 
We've lost a few of our blokes around the Vietnam border. The bloody Chinks keep crossing over to get around the back of the Yanks. It's our job to keep them occupied all the time. We do too, but we get no thanks for it. Our top man is Colonel Peters. We all reckon he is a great man. 
I might inform the House that  Colonel Peters  is now a retired former high ranking British soldier. He is alleged to have played a part in recruiting mercenaries to fight in the Congo and Laos and in Nigeria prior to the ending of the war. He is credited with recruiting most of these mercenaries in Johannesburg. I do not know whether the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  or the Minister for the Navy  (Mr Killen)  know him personally; they probably do.  Colonel Peters  is alleged, by one of the mercenaries, to be a man who has high ideals about the world. The soldier said: 
He doesn't want the  boongs  or the Commos to take over and he's prepared to go to any lengths to back his ideals. One of our brigades in the Congo got rid of 1,000  boongs  in one day. We bloody soon settled the nasty little situation there. 
According to the article the mercenaries did not get any thanks for it and they complained about cold treatment on their return to London. They boasted of high pay but of not being welcome and having to depend on the Australian-South African organisation in London to arrange accommodation for them, the article stated. It is this organisation that probably members of the Government are patrons of. The organisation is reported as buying a terrace of houses in which  300  Australian, New Zealand and South African mercenary soldiers are domiciled when they are in London on leave. This interview took place, as I said, with  12  or more mercenary soldiers at the Zambesi Club, Earls Court, London. The man who gave most of this information was an Australian soldier who had done  2  years Army service and became restless. The resultant interview when reported in the United Kingdom Press and by ihe British Broadcasting Commission surprised many people. They learned that the Australian Government was paying professional mercenary soldiers to do dirty work. The Australian mercenaries were proud of their achievement and profession and what they were doing on behalf of the Australian Government, the article said, though they regretted that the ordinary campaign medals associated with normal military adventures were not for them. Yet the United States and Australian governments claim they are not involved in the war in Laos. 
To me this article has something of a true ring to it. This Government told untruths in the past about our involvement in Vietnam when the then  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  pinned down the former Prime Minister,  Sir Robert  Menzies. Therefore I demand a forthright and honest answer from the new Minister for the Army who is generally respected and is held in high esteem on this side of the House. So far he has not to our knowledge been contaminated. The Australian people want to know whether this is true or not. The world wants to know and the United Nations wants to know, and I am sure the people of New Zealand want to know whether this information is true. I am seriously concerned about whether the Government has been hemmed in by the activities of the American Central Intelligence Agency. Has that agency subverted this Government, as it has other governments in other countries, into supplying mercenary soldiers for Vietnam, Nigeria, the Congo and Laos? If so, the Government should be honourable enough to admit it. 1 ask the Minister for the Army to tell the truth because eventually the truth will come out. If the allegations are true - and at this juncture I believe that they are - then this Government has gone far beyond the bounds of the common decencies. It has deliberately betrayed the Australian people and it is devoid of all moral worth and is totally unfit to occupy the Government benches in this Parliament. 
Several weeks ago my colleague the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  brought to the notice of the Parliament the danger involved in the use of a certain type of snorkel. This matter was received by the Parliament, the Press and society in general with some degree of interest. As a result of this matter being brought to the notice of the people of Australia per medium of the Press a friend of mine,  Mr Berry  of Marrickville, has brought to my attention the danger to the user or to others in close proximity of the gadgets which I have in my hand. They are known as power heads. They are designed for use in the end of spear guns ostensibly for the protection of the user against sharks. In normal use a 12-gauge cartridge is placed in the powerhead at the end of the spear gun and this cartridge detonates on impact with the object speared. However, the power heads can be detonated by hand. Several schoolage boys have seriously injured their hands with this type of gadget. One who is in a shocking state is a boy in the electorate of the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly),  who I know is interested in this subject and in the lad. That boy had a hole right through his hand caused by the BB shot. 
Honourable members could well imagine the mess that a 12-gauge cartridge could make to a young boy's hand necessitating surgery, skin grafting and months of hospitalisation. I know that you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  will be personally interested in this matter because your electorate is frequented by holiday makers in and around Port Macquarie. It is possible that similar instances will crop up there as a result of the careless use of power heads. This would cause you some concern as it would any other member. These power heads may be purchased at sports stores by children or persons of any age. It is time that there was an investigation into their manufacture, and consideration given by the Parliaments of the Commonwealth to their licensing and the banning of their sale to juveniles or irresponsible people. 
Tha ones that 1 have here have not the manufacturer's name on them but I believe they are made in the metropolis of Sydney. This instrument could be used by criminals to carry out bank holdups because it is a concealable weapon. The pistol licensing Acts of most States provide that any concealable weapon of this type firing a bullet through a barrel and operated by a trigger has to be licensed. As you would know,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  a person must have very good grounds before he can become the holder of a pistol licence, yet these weapons can be purchased by any person in any sports store. 
I now turn to another matter. An article relating to extensive research carried out in the United States by Professor Sternglass of the University of Pittsburg concerning strontium 90 recently came to my notice. I believe that every peaceloving person would be vitally interested in the latest research of Professor Sternglass who has uncovered unsuspected genetic effects of strontium 90. He says that amongst other effects it has been found to cause an increased mortality of children during the first year of life, and to be so sensitive that it already has resulted in the death of 400,000 children in the United States alone as a result of the nuclear weapons tests which were carried out between 1945 and 1962. 
Professor Sternglass has predicted that the employment of anti-ballistic missiles by the United States, even if successful against an enemy's nuclear attack, would result in the death of all children. He uses that as a powerful argument against the employment of anti-ballistic missile systems by the United States or any other country. He went on to say that the damaging action of even small doses of radiation, particularly on the foetus, has been established and accepted by the scientific community for many years. My colleague the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  and other members of the medical profession, as well as honourable members, will agree that some years ago the medical profession recommended that doctors refrain from X-raying pregnant women because of the effects that radiation might have on the unborn child. 
I believe that as a result of this research by Professor Sternglass we must have another look at ourselves to see whether we are using all the influence we can in the forums of the world to persuade the nuclear powers to dump all their nuclear weapons in the ocean or in a place where they cannot harm any human being. We have to reconsider the peaceful uses of nuclear weapons in the face of the research conducted by Professor Sternglass if it is proved to be correct. 
I do not intend to use the whole of the 10 minutes allotted to me because I know that the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  is hoping to speak in the debate later this afternoon, and if I were to use my full time now it could debar him and others, after having spent some hours on research, from putting their case before the House. However, let me say that I was a little amused this morning when the honourable member for Chisholm  (Sir Wilfrid Kent Hughes)  raised the question of Russian ships in the Indian Ocean. I listened to him intently. We know that during the last election campaign the 
Government said that there was no cause for alarm at Russian naval vessels being in the Indian Ocean. As I have said, this morning the honourable member for Chisholm raised the old Red bogy, as he usually does, by referring to Russian ships in the Indian Ocean. This morning over the national news I heard of an offer made by  Mr Kosygin  - the offer should be appreciated by the people of the Western world - that all Russian ships now at sea would give any assistance they could to the American astronauts who have been in some difficulty on their journey to the moon. I believe that it is to the credit of the Soviet Union that it has made that offer. It may cause great joy and satisfaction to the world that Russian ships are in the Indian Ocean if the astronauts happen to be forced down in that region, lt is the wish of all of us that they land safely. 
There was a great deal in the Australian Press some time ago about the Russian prawning vessel 'Van Gogh' taking prawns out of the Gulf of Carpentaria. 1 remember, although it did not get much publicity here, that an Australian vessel ran aground in the Torres Strait and 5 of its crew members were foundering on a raft for 4 or 5 days. The only vessel which left the prawning grounds to go to their rescue - in fact it did rescue them - was the Russian vessel 'Van Gogh'. Australian prawning vessels under the control of the Craig Mostyn organisation did not offer to pull up their nets and go to the assistance of the stricken vessel. I think that these things have to be mentioned. I can see that the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  is about to say of mc: 'He is praising the Russians again'. 
I represent an electorate which believes in justice to all manner of people. You can usually tell what the honourable member for La Trobe is thinking because he is about the No. 2 chief Red baiter. That is all I want to say. 
That is so. That is an example of the thoroughness with which the Public Works Committee examined aircraft noise at Pearce base. If this matter is referred back to the Public Works Committee I am doubtful whether anything further could be achieved. I must speak sincerely about this matter. The honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  paid me the courtesy a short time ago, when I was going over to another place about another matter, of telling me that he intended to move an amendment. I said that it was a matter entirely for him. 1 endorse the remarks of the honourable member for Hughes. The Public Works Committee investigated and probed this matter of aircraft noise at Pearce base with great thoroughness and concern and to the fullest possible extent. 1 felt I should say this on this occasion. I feel I must also say, with respect to my colleague the honourable member for Newcastle, that I am doubtful whether anything would be achieved in again referring the matter to the Public Works Committee. 
Is the Minister for External Affairs aware of a report broadcast on the British Broadcasting Commission news at 
II p.m. last night to the effect that the morale of the United States troops in Cambodia was at a very low ebb and was causing concern to the Pentagon and that 1 United States battalion was on the point of mutiny? Would he care to comment on this? 
Can the Attorney-General inform the House how many Commonwealth public servants have received gaol sentences, firstly, when the defalcation from the Commonwealth has been less than $5,000; secondly, when they have made full restitution; and, thirdly, when they are first offenders? Will the Attorney-General consider adjusting the penalty scale for those who defalcate up to $250,000 and escape with penalties not greatly exceeding 6 months hard labour? 
The matter that 1 desire to raise in this Grievance debate today is, 1 consider, of considerable importance to the citizens of Newcastle and the hinterland. For too long the citizens of this important region of Australia have been shabbily treated by responsible Government authorities in not having a permanent Government medical officer appointed to carry out the responsibilities of the Government medical officer in that city. This is a State appointment. While I am on this point, I am reminded of some of the remarks of the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  who has just resumed his seat. He used the phrase 'the States are starved for funds'. This becomes a matter worthy of being raised in the national Parliament because it could well be that the position existing in Newcastle regarding the permanent appointment of a Government medical officer has been brought about by the Commonwealth starving the States for funds. It is some 12 years since a permanent Government medical officer was appointed to that position in Newcastle following the retirement of the former permanent Government Medical Officer,  Dr Eglund.  He retired from that position on the grounds of ill health. 
I knew the late  Dr Englund  well. He was a conscientious, dedicated Government medical officer whose whole attention was directed to the performance of the medical supervision for which he was appointed. 
Since his retirement at least 4 medical practitioners have been appointed from time to time as acting Government medical officers in the City of Newcastle. These medicos have to perform the duties of Government medical officer as well as carry out their own private practice, lt is obvious to any reasonable man or anyone acquainted with the position in Newcastle that an acting Government medical officer cannot afford the necessary time to carry out thoroughly the duties of a Government medical officer or the duties of forensic medicine and meet the requirements of his own private practice. I am doubtful whether the same degree of enthusiasm would be shown to the work of a Government medical officer when those duties came into conflict with matters appertaining to his own private practice. I think it is commonsense that he would give preference to the obligations of his own private practice. I believe that the remuneration offered to Government medical officers or acting Government medical officers, as the case may be, is considerably lower than that which a doctor can earn in private practice. This is probably the reason why, for approximately 12 years since the retirement of  Dr Englund,  the position of permanent Government medical officer at Newcastle has not been filled. 1 believe the responsible health authorities have been treating the citizens of this important city, which is the industrial heart of the nation, in a mean, shabby and contemptible way. Some honourable members may think I am a little impatient in raising the matter when only a mere 12 years have elapsed since the appointment of a permanent Government medical officer to this important city. I believe that, because these people are predominantly working class, the health authorities have got away with gross neglect in the matter to which I am referring. One might well ask how long the citizens of Bellevue Hill, Point Piper, Rose Bay, Wahroonga and Toorak, which is just outside Melbourne, would put up with this type of shabby treatment. One might ask how the absence of a permanent Government medical officer affects the community. Is it serious to the community? I say it is. I particularly want to refer to the position of the next of kin of deceased persons whose near and dear ones die in circumstances where an autopsy is requested by the Coroner. Frequently in 
Newcastle autopsies  cannot  be held for some 4 or 5 days probably because of the Government medical officer's lack of enthusiasm or because he is too busy with his own private practice. This causes prolonged mourning by tha widow, widower and near and dear ones and also causes extreme inconvenience to relatives who travel from distant parts of the State or interstate to attend the funeral. The funeral is held up because the autopsy is held up. The Coroner will not release the body to the undertaker until he receives the medical report of the autopsy. These things have been imposed on the people in my district for too long and should be immediately rectified. Relatives are left languishing in distress for long periods. 
Furthermore, we have to think of our police investigating officers when a person dies in circumstances where poisoning is suspected. Many of us know that certain modern poisons, which can be used to dispose of someone whom one docs not like, disappear from the body in a very short period of time. This necessitates holding a postmortem as promptly as possible so that investigating officers can be apprised of the cause of death, and can pursue their line of inquiry as they would like to do once the cause of death is determined. We all have in mind the unfortunate Bogle case where the medical officers could not determine the cause of death. It was suspected that a poison known as '1080' could have been used. A very high class pathologist might have difficulty in tracing this poison in the body. The poinson '1080' is supposed to leave the body in a very short period of time. One can understand why in Newcastle there has been bungling with government medical officers, not always because of their incompetence. The recent acting Government Medical Officer,  Dr Raschke,  is a very outstanding and dedicated doctor but he has a lot of obligations with his own private practice. 1 do not think he was enthusiastic about taking over the duties of Government medical officer. The acting Government medical officer prior to  Dr Raschke  is under committal for trial at the moment for performing an illegal operation. 
I believe that the job of government medical officer, which is so important to society, is not made attractive enough by the responsible Government department. I believe that as soon as possible a highly qualified medical practitioner, skilled and trained in forensic medicine, should be offered a salary attractive enough for him to dedicate himself to this position so that the citizens of Newcastle will be lifted to a higher grade and one worthy of the important part they play in the development and the economy of the nation. I sincerely hope that as a result of my bringing this matter forward in the debate today this very unsatisfactory position in Newcastle regarding the appointment of a permanent Government medical officer will be quickly rectified. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I do not think that is necessary. I think the honourable member is trying to fool me. He is intelligent enough to know what I have said, and I think I speak clearly enough for all honourable members to hear. I am a little surprised at the honourable member for Lilley. He usually makes a wiser interjection than that. He may be suffering from the great strains of office because he is hanging on to a borderline seat up in Queensland and he will not be here much longer. I could have made other contributions to this debate which I think would have been beneficial to the Parliament, but having promised the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp),  who is at the table, that I would be very brief, T conclude with the remarks and submission I have made. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. In honour of the visit to Australia next September of His Holiness the Pope will the Prime Minister use his good offices to persuade the State governments to remove all restrictions on the well known and popular game of housie-housie? 
I teel heartwarmed by the concluding remarks of the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Lynch).  He said that any reasonable submission put forward by an honourable member will be brought to the notice of the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  on his return from overseas where, we learn, he is attending the Commonwealth Finance Ministers' Conference. To my mind, those remarks of the Minister throw a beam of light on the dim prospects of the unfortunate forgotten army to which I want to make reference, f hope that my submissions will receive top priority among the matters that the Minister will bring to the notice of the Treasurer. I arn somewhat disappointed in all honourable members that a certain group of people has not been mentioned during the debate on the Treasury's estimates. I refer to that growing army of unfortunate males in the community who, through a breakdown in their marriage and the divorce that follows, have to pay substantial amounts of alimony to their alleged aggrieved former wives. These alimony payments are not deductible for taxation purposes. 
I suppose all honourable members nave had instances brought to their notice of constituents who have to pay substantial amounts of alimony year after year which are not permitted as deductions for income tax purposes. Most honourable members know that f represent a working class community in the electorate of Hunter. Several such cases have been uppermost in my mind for some time. For a period of 16 years one chap has been paying at least $16 a week in alimony. He found because of temporary unemployment that he could not pay and he was put into Maitland gaol, or the slot' as it is commonly known, as a debtor - a wife starver. He was kept there for about 6 months. He is a decent hard working man with corns on his hands through hard work. This is the most unfortunate case of which I know. For 16 years he has been paying alimony and he cannot claim it as a taxable deduction. This is because these unfortunate males have not formed themselves into a union or pressure group to get justice and if anything screams for justice it is the situation of these unfortunates who, probably through a desire not to disgrace their children, did not contest the divorce petition, perhaps because they were not in a position to pay the exorbitant legal costs charged in divorce cases. 1 am pleased that on several occasions the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin)  has shown considerable interest in the exorbitant costs of divorce. I referred at one time to a case in which costs of $900 were incurred in a simple undefended divorce petition. That brings me to the field of divorce costs for which the Budget does not make any provision by way of taxable deduction because I understand such costs fall into the category of domestic legal costs and are not regarded as a tax deduction. The only organisation in the nation that seems to take an interest in these sorts of affairs is the Law Reform Society but it is unable to exert sufficient pressure on the Government to cause high priority to be given to the need for legal costs, particularly divorce costs, and alimony paid by an unfortunate former husband to be allowed as tax deductions. I would like to think that the Minister will bring these matters to the notice of the Treasurer and will give them high priority. 
A number of my constituents in the Morriset-Cooranbong-Wyee area feel, and I am in agreement with them, that there is a serious anomaly in the taxation laws in relation to water rates in that one can claim water rates as a taxation deduction but the unfortunate people who live away from the water mains and are unable to get reservoir or council water and have to install tanks or sink bores receive no taxation concessions. I believe this is something to which serious consideration should be given by the Taxation Branch. I assured the  Chairman  I would not take up my full time on these Treasury estimates. State and Federal members of Parliament today speak of the upsurge of crime in our society. One of the things that contributes to the upsurge of crime is the development of a sense of being nobody by some of these unfortunates who have to pay heavy alimony. This weighs them down to a point where they say to themselves: 'What is the good of working? I am better to resort to crime than work to pay these exorbitant alimony costs for which I get no sympathy from the Government by way of taxation concession'. 1 say in all seriousness that it would be interesting, if the figures were available - I do not think they are collated by our very efficient library - to know the amount of alimony paid which is not a tax deduction and the number of persons who receive gaol sentences as a result of developing a sense of being nobody through being over-burdened with the payment of heavy alimony year in and year out. In conclusion I hope that the next Budget will make some provision for the forgotten army of people paying exorbitant alimony for which there is no taxation deduction and that similar sympathy will be shown to those who have to pay heavy divorce costs for which also no taxation deduction is allowable. Newspaper proprietors who have successful defamation actions brought against them can write off their costs in such actions by way of tax deductions. This is a shocking legal anomaly which should be adjusted as soon as possible. 
Proposed expenditures agreed to. 
Department of External Affairs 
Proposed expenditure $81,276,600. 
My submission in this debate on the estimates for the Department of External Territories will be confined to Papua and New Guinea. My comments will be praiseworthy in some respects and critical in others. The honourable member for Hume  (Mr Pettitt)  has deep interests in New Guinea from a political education point of view. It is true that the honourable member met people when he was in New Guinea last Anzac Day, as I was, who praised the administration. But many of the Europeans up there are very diplomatic; they would have known that the honourable member is a supporter of the Government. They would not have wanted to hurt his feelings by being critical of the Government, knowing that he was a supporter of the government that administers Papua and New Guinea. 
Firstly 1 want to thank the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Barnes)  for the great courtesy he has shown - this is the praiseworthy side of my comments - and his officers for the courtesy extended to me whilst in New Guinea last Anzac Day. In particular I want to thank District Commissioner Hicks and his Assistant District Commissioner at Wewak. These officers went out of their way to see that every courtesy was extended to me. I mention these officers in particular because most of my time was spent at Wewak. I thought they were very good officers and I was able to gauge the esteem in which they are held in the town. I also want to thank Chief Police Inspector Ron Rae, whom I knew in Sydney years ago, and the customs officer at Wewak. These officers seem to be highly regarded in Wewak by all sections of the community. From Wewak I went across to Rabaul where I heard differing opinions about the statements of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  in connection with the Mataungans. Those people who found out that I was a Labor man seemed to hold the view that the Mataungans had an argument which was not without merit. Probably if I said I was a member of the Government parties they might not have expressed such a view. 
The people who expressed an opinion in favour of the statements made by the Leader of the Opposition seemed to be from the educated section of the indigenous people who had learnt about the exploitation of other countries by great vested interests. They are learning more about this. John Kaputin's name was mentioned tonight by the honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman).  It might be true that certain socialistic minded people in Australia have taken Kaputin under their wing and are educating him. No-one can deny the shocking exploitation by big businesses, in particular Conzinc Riotinto of Australia Ltd. I think the Leader of the Opposition hit the nail on the head tonight when he said that we are paying for the sins of the colonisers of New Guinea in the years gone by. I know that there are some very wealthy European people in New Guinea and they have gained their wealth out of exploitation of the indigenous people. One can use all the semantics in the world but there is no way of getting around it. 
I  have been to a coffee plantation in 
New Guinea and I have seen the indigenous people - man, wife and little child - at work shelling coffee beans. They work  7  days a week. The plantation owner was so ready to tell us that the indigenous people did not have to work on that day. He said that they had volunteered to come in because it happened to be a Sunday. That would not be right. What he said was an insult to my intelligence. I did not like to offend the plantation owner at the time so  1  said nothing to him. But he emphasised that they did not have to work on this day; that they had volunteered. We know that the big white man boss would threaten them; otherwise they would not have been working flat out at the plantation at the time I was there. 
Another thing that irritates me and,  1  believe, with all his decency it must irritate the Minister for External Territories, is the use  in New Guinea of the word 'master'. This is something that began years ago. The word is not heard in the British Solomons where I went after  1  left New Guinea. But in New Guinea one can hear the phrase: 'Yes, master.' 
Yes, but it is different to master'. To the ears of an Australian the use of the word 'master' conveys the impression of a downtrodden person talking to someone who has trodden him into the ground. This would be what the average Australian would think. Able Seaman Killen would hate to have to refer to anyone in this way. I venture to say that when he was jackarooing in Queensland many years ago, never expecting to some into this Parliament and be become the Minister for the Navy, he never reduced himself to the level where he had to say to big man grazier: 'Yes master, what do I do next'. No-one would have resented this more than the Minister for the Navy. 
We are all interested in New Guinea. The Australian people are becoming more interested in New Guinea and we all want to see this country obtain self government as soon as possible. There are different opinions between the Government and the Labor Party on this question. To my mind there will be a period of chaos no matter when New Guinea gets self government. There will be a period when newspapers and groups of people will say: 'There you are, this is the fault of giving them self government'. But to my mind this will be like a newly born child: If you do not allow it to toddle it will never learn to walk and if you do not teach it to walk it will never be able to run. i believe it was incorrect of the Government to allow CRA to go into New Guinea and to develop its copper interests when that country is on the fringe of self government. The people of New Guinea should have been allowed to make this decision for themselves. CRA has one objective in view, and it is not to improve the lot of the New Guinea people unless it is compelled to do so. 
J was reared on the northern coalfields of New South Wales. The coal owners have done nothing for mine workers except what they were compelled to do by legislation.  1  remember when  Mr Jack  Baddeley, who was a  Deputy  Premier of New South Wales, had to impose a levy on coal when he was Minister of Mines and compel the coal owners to put baths at all the coal mines so that a miner would not have to take home the filth from the mine. Under this awful capitalist system, which is dying a very tragic death, companies have to produce the highest possible profit for their shareholders. When they cannot achieve this the shareholders get rid of the directors. Therefore, it is incumbent on the directors to exploit those who help to make this great profit, because the shareholders come first. 
I  want  lu  refer to another matter  iiia L  concerns me about New Guinea that has not been referred to by speakers in this debate. This is the frightful hotel charges that one has to pay in New Guinea. They are higher than the charges of any hotel in Australia. Tt costs around  $16  or  $17  a night for bed and breakfast and I understand the chief reason for this is the one I just mentioned in regard to CRA. Investors in hotels in New Guinea look for a 20 per cent return on their investment. This is something the Government could well have corrected by setting up Commonwealth hostels and breaking this monopoly. The Government is always a champion of free enterprise and competition and this is a perfect opportunity for it to further this idea particularly up in the Highlands at Goroka and Mount Hagen. 
Yes, a place like the Hotel Kurrajong up there under part Commonwealth control would compel the sharks, as I call them, in the hotel industry to reduce their exorbitant hotel charges. They are getting cheap labour up there. The hotels have a staff-boarder ratio that is better than any hotel in Australia has and so should be able to charge cheaper rates than they do. One would not mind paying the exorbitant charges if one knew the indigenous people were being paid a reasonable wage. Whilst the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Pettitt)  made an interesting contribution to this debate tonight he kept away from any reference at all to the speech made previously by the honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin)  who disclosed the shocking discrepancy between the wages paid to indigenes and Europeans in New Guinea. One would not expect - this is my own personal view - the indigenous people to get exactly the same wage as a skilled European worker, but the discrepancy between the two, as pointed out by the honourable member for Banks tonight, would make any decent thinking Australian shudder. 
The honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  spoke at length tonight on the legal system in Papua and New Guinea and he made reference to the Office of the Public Solicitor. I want to comment on that and say that for the greater part of a day at Goroka I attended the trial of an indigenous woman for murder. She was defended by the Public Solicitor and I thought that the Public Solicitor put forward a case for this unfortunate lady as skilled as any trained criminal lawyer in Australia would put forward provided he did not resort to the villainy that some Australian criminal lawyers resort to. 
Yes, but conscience makes cowards of us all and it is pricking the conscience of the Minister for the Navy  (Mr Killen)  who is interjecting because he knows some of the villainy that he has probably resorted to in the courts. Since he took up criminal law the Boggo Road Gaol in Brisbane is full to capacity. 
Many of his clients are in there. 
 I ask the Prime Minister whether one of his senior Ministers, a noted batsman, scored only 3 runs yesterday in batting for the Prime Minister's team against the Press. Will he consider retiring him from wielding the willow before he further disgraces the Prime Minister's XI? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Customs and Excise. Is it a fact that a known New South Wales professional criminal was arrested in Sydney late last week for possession or care and control of a large quantity of narcotic and other dangerous drugs? Is it also a fact that a Sydney magistrate allowed him easily obtainable bail at the Central Court of Petty Session last Saturday morning? Does this not indicate a laissez-faire attitude on the part of the magistrate which is not approved of by society in general? 
asked the Minister for the Interor, upon notice: 
In view of the opportunity of various other members of the community to augment their salaries by other forms of income, will he expedite a decision on the matter of allowing members of the Australian Capital Territory Police Force to engage in other lawful activities to supplement their police salaries when those activities do not interfere with their lawful occupation. 
I should like to endorse the remarks of the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson).  I suppose that the electorate of Hunter is no different from any other electorate. But day after day many tragic cases are brought to my notice. These cases involve old people who have to go into private homes for the aged in order to receive special attention. These homes are run for profit. Admittedly they are subsidised by the Government, but 1 believe that it should be the Government's responsibility to provide Government homes for these old people. I suggest that the Government could make allocations to the States for the purpose of establishing homes, similar to the Lidcombe Old Men's Home. When an old man is deprived of wealth or friendship, at least he can go into the Lidcombe Old Men's Home and still receive $3 or $4 of his pension which he can use to buy the ordinary amenities, such as tobacco or cigarettes, or to have a SOc bet on a horse or a dog. or to buy a garment for himself. 
I remember the time when the Rathmines air base was to be disposed of by the Commonwealth. I pleaded passionately with the Government to use the air base as a home for the aged. It was situated on the shores of Lake Macquarie and well made wharves had been built by the Air Force. Aged people could have enjoyed the beauty of Lake Macquarie. Even if they were in wheelchairs they could have been wheeled out on to a ferry and for a very small fee they could have been transported around Lake Macquarie to look at its beauty. But my pleas fell on deaf ears; it was not to be. The Government stands condemned because of its failure to provide adequately for old people who have to go into privately controlled homes where, in many cases, there are instances of exploitation. 
I was honoured by the presence of the Minister in an area in the lower part of my electorate. He came to inspect the Salvation Army home which had been established at Dora Creek on the shores of Lake Macquarie. It is an ideal setting. I know that the people in my electorate were very proud to have the Minister there. I believe that he was equally proud to see this home which had been established on the upper reaches of Lake Macquarie. The Salvation Array established the home not for the aged but as a rehabilitation centre for alcoholics, lt is progressing very favourably, and this is due to the financial assistance which has been granted by the Commonwealth. But this home is different from homes for the aged. People who go to the Salvation Army home at Dora Creek are not bedridden. 
The honourable member for Hughes and I are particularly concerned about the way in which some of the people who run these private homes for the aged exploit the situation in order to make a profit. The profit motive is the driving force behind these people. The need to care, to comfort and to show affection towards old people is secondary; profit comes first. Eventually I should like to see the Government run these homes so that profit becomes a secondary factor or a minor factor in the provision of aged persons homes. That is all 1 want to contribute to the debate. I hope that these homes which are run for profit soon will go into oblivion and that the care and comfort of old people will become the first consideration. 
 My remarks concerning the Commonwealth Department of Works estimates will be of praise on the one hand and of minor criticism on the other. The Department of Works employees in the Northern Territory, led by  Mr George  Redmond, are doing a wonderful job. All honourable members should be aware of their extensive activities in the Northern Territory. As a member of the Joint Statutory Committee on Public Works I have had to visit the Northern Territory on numerous occasions and have been able to assess the value of the work of employees of the Department of Works. Now I come to some points of criticism. We find that in New South Wales there has been considerable retrenchment of employees of the Department and more is intended. I refer particularly to the Williamtown Royal Australian Air Force base where much consternation is felt because of the retrenchments of Department of Works employees. These have comprised tradesmen, particularly carpenters. These retrenchments do not encourage competent tradesmen to seek employment in the Department of Works because they cannot be assured of continuity of employment. Employees of the Department should feel secure in their employment. 
I also believe that the Department should not be retrenching employees but should be carrying out a programme of expansion. If this were done we would find that the employees of the Department would be a body of contented men. They would also be a body of efficient men, even more efficient than they are now. There is an old saying that a contented employee is an efficient employee. We know that at defence establishments there is always a contingent of Department of Works employees, and the volume of work rises and falls from time to time. In these circumstances, and with present planning, it is difficult not to have to retrench from time to time, but I believe that there should be some more wide ranging plan for Department of Works employees so that when jobs are completed on defence establishments, whether they be at Puckapunyal, Williamtown air base, the Singleton Army camp or somewhere else, the employees can be transferred to other work in the regions. They would then never have to fear unemployment. They should be like permanent members of the Services who know that when they finish one job they will still have security and permanency of employment. 
I may be asked where else these men could be employed. There are plenty of urgent public works, particularly in the Newcastle region with which I am particularly concerned, that the Commonwealth should undertake but which are too big for local government authorities and even State governments. I might mention, for instance, the Swansea Channel which provides an inlet and outlet for the beautiful waters of Lake Macquarie. For years this channel has been silting up. Protests have come from organised bodies, local government authorities and the State Government. The Swansea Channel could and should be dredged and the banks should be reinforced. What money has been spent on dredging from time to time has been virtually wasted. If the money had been allowed to accumulate and spent on one attack on the problem perhaps the banks of the channel could have been protected for all time by reinforcement and the siltation prevented. There would be no authority more capable of doing this work, in my opinion, than the Commonwealth Department of Works. I believe that special Commonwealth financial assistance should be given towards overcoming this problem of siltation in the Swansea channel. I understand it would cost not more than  $400,000. 
At one time it was argued that there were not sufficient ratepayers in the Lake Macquarie area to warrant a Commonwealth grant for this purpose. In 1947 the population of Lake Macquarie was only 42.000. Today the population is 130,000. By the turn of the century it is expected to reach 300,000. I hope that the charter of the Department of Works can be expanded so that when a job is completed in a particular area the men employed on it can be transferred to other important public works such as the one I have just referred to. I gathered information only today by telephone that private enterprise is now looking at 2 sites in the Swansea or Central Coast area where it proposes to build breakwaters into the ocean for the purpose of loading coal for export to Japan. These ventures would be adjacent to some beautiful beaches. If these projects are allowed to go forward there will probably be a justifiable outcry from the people in the region similar to that with which the people of the Wollongong area and in the electorate of Hughes have been bombarding the honourable member for that electorate. Similar coal loading projects are planned, we are told, for that area. We know that we must export but we should not allow our public beaches to be ruined just so that some exporters can get what is known as a fast buck. 1 believe the Government should consider expanding the activities of the Department of Works to enable that Department to carry out projects such as I have already suggested. I point out, without being overcritical, that the Commonwealth spends vast sums of money on projects such as the extension of airports to accommodate international aircraft. I refer particularly to the Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport, the Tullamarine Airport and the Avalon Airport which is being extended for the purpose of training urgently needed jumbo jet pilots for Qantas. The Perth airport, I believe, has been extended and improved facilities are being provided at the Wagga defence establishment. Millions of dollars are being spent in these areas. Millions of dollars are about to be spent on the provision of new barracks and amenities for sailors at HMAS 'Cerberus'. I think that the Commonwealth could spend some money on the project to which I have referred. 
 I would like to participate in this debate as a member of the Public Works Committee and to support the concluding remarks of my colleague the honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Fulton).  I believe that the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  moved this amendment as a form of protest against the absence of foresight by the Government in not planning for the foreseeable future. I join with the honourable member for Leichhardt in saying that the Public Works Committee is not prepared to be censured by anybody in this House. It is a dedicated Committee and the members of it have worked very hard. We have examined every possible aspect of the proposals set out in the report now before the Parliament. We flew over Avalon in light aircraft. We stood in the classrooms of Geelong Grammar School. We went into the streets and into the shops of Lara and Little River and made one of the most thorough examinations that could be made by any committee in connection with the problems of aircraft noise. 
The executive officers of Geelong Grammar were not hostile about aircraft noise. I thought they were very decent in thenoutlook. But they did express an opinion that it would be better if the 707 jet pilots under training kept closer to the organised and restricted pattern of flight, which would keep them about a mile away from Geelong Grammar. But they said in all fairness that they realised the difficulty  in  training pilots who occasionally drifted over Geelong Grammar and sometimes caused up to 11 interruptions to student classes in a matter of an hour. We realised this difficulty but we also realised, as every member of this Parliament acknowledges, the rapid advances that have been made  in  the aircraft industry in recent years. Probably our Committee was a little overcensorious  in  the concluding pages of  its  report when censuring the Department of Civil Aviation. 
The aircraft industry is one of the most rapidly changing industries. We planned and prepared the Amberley air base for the FI 1 1 bomber, but no-one now knows whether the Fill bomber will ever be used there. One can plan too far ahead at times in connection with the aircraft industry. Aircraft engineers are talking about designing a vertical takeoff aircraft. 
The honourable member for Shortland says they have done it. I do not think it has come on to the commercial market or will do so in the foreseeable future. To use the vernacular, what a bunny the Government would be if it built great expensive airstrips and then aeronautical engineers came out with a vertical takeoff aircraft. We would look rather stupid. The great concern of the Committee was that our great international airline, Qantas, would not be held up with the conversion courses to the jumbo jets of its pilots. 1 endorse the remarks made by my colleagues that the Department of Civil Aviation officials have shown great courtesy and are skilled and dedicated men. Under cross-examination before the Committee the DCA officials said that there was no suitable training airfield site on the east coast between Sydney and Melbourne. This makes it difficult. We must accept this testimony on oath from men of great integrity and learning. 
Despite the irritations caused to certain people in the area by aircraft noise, if we are to advance in this industry the unfortunate people who find the aircraft noise causing them mental distress will have to put up with it. f say that with deep feeling for their problem. The honourable member for Newcastle raised an interesting point when he said that the pilots could be trained overseas while we search around for another airfield. But I recollect evidence being given to the Public Works Committee from members of the Department of Civil Aviation to the effect that Avalon airport is ideal for training our jet pilots because of the crosswinds and because of the low cloud that settles over Avalon airport at frequent intervals throughout the year. That gives the pilots the opportunity of flying and making land ings where there is a cloud hazard which they frequently encounter at overseas airports. Climatically, from the crosswinds and the cloud cover, Avalon airport is ideal for the purpose of training these pilots. 
At times, as the honourable member for Hughes reminds me, the pilots have to descent to 500 feet. Under cross-examination we asked DCA officials why the pilots have to fly so low during their training periods. The answer was that at certain airports throughout the world which do not have modern landing instruments the pilots have to make visual landings. Therefore they have to practise low flying below cloud to become skilled in bringing these giant planes down when electronic facilities are non-existent in some of the airports throughout the world. I have said, and I reiterate, I consider that the referring back of this report to the Public Works Committee will be futile. But I appreciate the motives which inspired the honourable member for Newcastle to bring forward this amendment. 
As I conclude my remarks I desire to point out also to the House that backgrading the Avalon airport is something that we cannot afford to do. When the jumbo jets, the 707s and, later, the Concordes come onto the international runs, if a plane catches fire at Tullamarine the only alternative international airport where another plane could be brought down would be Avalon. The same would apply if Tullamarine were closed by fog. The alternate airport, which is nearby, would he Avalon. These are important things which I do not think have been brought forward in this debate, despite the great skill and knowledge displayed by Government supporters and honourable members on this side of the House. Therefore, the Parliament should be very clear about my attitude to the situation. Unfortunately. 1 find myself and the Committee - particularly the Labor members of the Public Works Committee - generally over the barrel, in virtually having to support the amendment because of a Party decision when we feel that, if the amendment were carried and the report referred back to the Public Works Committee, it would be rather futile. 
I would like to endorse substantially the remarks of the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly),  the  Chairman  of the Public Works Committee. As a member of the Committee, I can say that the decision on this reference we are debating was not an easy one. The honourable member for Wakefield pointed out that the Committee is a non-party Committee and correctly said that it should remain so. In reaching the decision to recommend that the Parliament give approval for the works to be carried out at Cockburn Sound there was a conflict of opinion between the honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Fulton)  and the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson),  who are members of my Party, the Australian Labor Party, and myself. I have the greatest respect for all members of the Committee and in particular for the honourable member for Leichhardt and the honourable member for Hughes, but I would like to record in the Parliament that the honourable member for Hughes and the honourable member for Leichhardt suggested and moved as an amendment: 
That unless the Government is able to convince the Parliament that the work is urgent, further investigation should be carried out to ensure that impairment of Cockburn Sound environment will not occur.  1 voted against this amendment because there was evidence before the Committee that if investigations were continued as they had been for another 2 years the decision might not be different and the opinion of the Committee might not change. I may have erred in my decision, but 1 have no regrets, because the Committee, as the honourable member for Wakefield has said, is a non-party Committee and gives its opinions in accordance with the evidence and in accordance with what we believe to be the best interests of the nation. 
Personally I' am against vast expenditures of public money on defence. When the countries of the world are coming closer and closer together, when conferences are taking place in different parts of the world, we should meet together as brothers and give away the human conflict between nations that has gone on for centuries. As a member of this Parliament, I intend to strive towards that end as long as I am able to speak. Until nations take a positive stand, until the time when vast defence expenditure is avoided and the hungry peoples of the world are properly clothed, properly fed and properly housed - which as a member of this national Parliament I hope to see - I shall strive towards that end. But one's personal opinion is different from community opinion. I suppose in private all members of this House would agree that to denounce public expenditure on defence for this nation would be an electoral loser. How shabby can we as members of this national Parliament be in our approach to hospitalisation, education, homes for the aged and satisfying the needs of aged people when we continue to pour vast defence expenditure down the drain? 
But if one asked the community to express in the ballot box at the polls its opinion on what I have just said, some people would say: 'That member James, the member for Hunter, is prepared to leave our country defenceless.' This, of course, I would not do. There is no threat to Australia in the immediate future. As I see it there will be no threat for another 30 years, if ever. I have asked people who are not keen political students due to their obligation to put chops on the tables in their homes and support their wives and children: 'Who is going to invade us? Will it be Indonesia?' The answer is no. 'Japan?' No. 'Burma?' No. 'India?' No. 'Malaysia?' No. Vietnam?' No. 'What about China?* The answer is: 'Ah! What about China?' I say to them: The only information I can give you about China is from a report from the Pentagon, the war office in the United States which plans global strategy. It states that the Chinese have very few fighter aircraft, that they are very short of high octane fuel, that they have a vintage type Soviet submarine and that they have shallow draught naval craft, but that they have one of the strongest armies in the world, armed with small scale- 
No. I wish it were balloons on sticks. That is what the world has to get back to. 
I would like to associate myself with the remarks of the Prime Minister, the Leader of the Opposition and the Leader of the Australian Country Parly. I had known Jim Ormonde from when I was a small boy. The Prime Minister made reference to the fact that before Jim Ormonde became a journalist he spent his early life on the northern coalfields. How very true. Jim Ormonde was reared in the heart of the northern coalfields at Kurri Kurri where I was reared. It was there, I believe, that the true principles of the Australian Labor Party were infused into his bloodstream. He never diverted from them. It is true, as the Prime Minister has said, that Jim Ormonde was a man of great humanity, high principles and full of humanism. 
He belonged to a tightly knit family in which unfortunately 3 brothers have passed away in the last 3 years. Their father. Jerry Ormonde, was an old coalminer. Both he and  Senator Jim  Ormonde worked in the Pelaw Main coal mine where my late father worked before entering this Parliament. Your late father,  Mr Speaker,  could have recalled those early days in Kurri Kurri. I guess that if he were still alive he would remember Jerry Ormonde and the late  Senator Ormonde.  Those in the community and in this Parliament who knew. Jim Ormonde will regret his passing. 
He was a man who has been properly described as having the rich red human qualities. He is deserving of the tributes which have been paid to him by previous speakers. I join in extending sympathy to his wife and family. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honourable members standing in their places. 
This being the Grievance Day debate, it is my intention in the brief time available to grieve on behalf of two of my constituents who, despite their great financial burden, have made tireless efforts to give their two lovely children every comfort, aid and medical assistance within their power, although, according to expert medical opinion, the life expectancy of their children is not in excess of 10 years. These parents have permitted me to mention their names in the Parliament. They are  Mrs Marie  Merrion and  Mr Kenneth  Brian Merrion, who reside at 67 Quarie Road, 
Cardiff. The children who are suffering from this incurable complaint are Shelley, aged 4 years, and Paul, aged  2  years. The father would not be among the high income group of the community, but let me stress to the House the heavy burden of medical costs placed on these very decent and law abiding parents to keep their beloved children alive. 
I emphasise the need for the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  to place on the pharmaceutical benefits list certain drugs essential to children similarly suffering or to make special provision for free drugs to be issued to parents who have children in a similar state of health. The complaint of the children has been diagnosed as cystic fibrosis, commonly referred to as dry lung. I understand that it is a genetic disease and that both parents have been identified as carriers. Gentamycin is a most essential drug for the treatment and relief of this complaint when other antibiotics are not effective. It is rather expensive and is not on the free pharmaceutical benefits list. I also understand that prophylene glycol, which these Merrion children must have constantly, is essential for the treatment of dry lung and it is also very costly and is not on the free pharmaceutical benefits list. These children, who are victims of cystic fibrosis or dry lung, have to be placed in a fog lent, for at least 4 hours a day and I understand that their lungs have to be kept damp 24 hours a day. They have to be given 30 tablets a day. Two machines purchased by the parents which are essential for keeping their children alive, plus the drugs that must be given to them, as well as the fog tent, have involved them in an outlay of approximately S6.000 since the children's complaint was first diagnosed. I think that the House must feel some compassion for the unfortunate parents who have children with a life expectancy of only 10 years, but despite this the parents are quite cheerful and happy and meeting their responsibility in the true Australian way. 1 understand that an association was formed in Sydney some 3 years ago to appeal to the Government for special care for the unfortunate children suffering from cystic fibrosis. The association has been asking for recognition by the Commonwealth Government and also for financial assistance for the care, aid and treatment of the children. I understand that Professor Beveridge of Sydney has a special interest in and knowledge of this tragic and incurable disease. I therefore hope that ihe great human qualities allegedly possessed by the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  will rise to an unprecedented height and that immediate steps will be taken to aid these unfortunate children and their parents and others similarly situated in bearing the crushing burden of medical costs in keeping their near and dear ones alive. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education and Science. Has the attention of the Minister been drawn to the heavy financial burden placed on the parents of children when it is necessary for those children to change schools, such as the movement from primary school to high school, at which time parents must  purchase new uniforms for their children often at a cost of $70 or more? Have representations been made to the Minister advocating a common uniform for all schools? Would the Minister care to comment on that suggestion? 
I was very interested in the remarks of the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe).  Only last Saturday night I went into his electorate - not for evil political purposes. 
I will tell the honourable member what I went for. I went to purchase some hay from one of his constituents in the Morpeth region. It is a tragedy to see the way the farms are. This man told me about a fellow coming down the Hunter River under the Morpeth bridge in a little canoe. The canoe turned upsidedown and the man swam towards a willow tree and climbed up. I said: 'It was not Frank O'Keefe, the honourable member for Paterson, looking after your interests, was it?' Of course he laughed. The willow trees in the recent floods in Maitland were cracking under the force of water. It really brings home the devastation caused in the 
Maitland region by the recent floods. It has compelled me to rise and say something in this Parliament tonight. The honourable member for Paterson was unfair in his criticism of members of the Opposition. He criticised my colleague, the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  because he did not refer to the devastation caused by recent floods in the Singleton area. There is a limit - thank God there is - on all speakers in this Parliament. Some of them could speak under boiling water or under sewer water. If there was no limit they would go on and on. The honourable member for Newcastle has been interested in the devastation caused by floods in the Singleton area. He has mentioned it to me in private when we have been travelling down from Newcastle. I was a little disappointed to hear the honourable member for Paterson shower praise on the Hunter Valley Conservation Trust on several occasions. But to be fair to the honourable member for Paterson, probably time did not permit him to shower a handful of praise on the Hunter Valley Research Foundation because 1 know that he is interested in its activities. 1 hope that I will be able to refer to some of the important work that the Hunter Valley Research Foundation is doing, lt is a non profit organisation, not something that Government members support- 
1 did not hear the interjection but I will handle it if it is repeated. The Hunter Valley Research Foundation is an organisation which is registered as a non profit company. It was registered on 13th November 1956. The memorandum and articles of association were signed by 9 original members. There are in all 12 members of the Board of Directors elected from the 33 members of the company. The registered office of the company is in Newcastle, as the honourable member for Patterson would well know. The Hunter Valley Research Foundation operates along normal business lines with respect to the preparation and publication of a balance sheet and statement of accounts, duly audited. The principal objects of the company are to conduct and foster research into problems of flood mitigation and conservation of water, soil, timber and vegetation or any of them in the Hunter 
Valley, and all problems related thereto. This is an honourable organisation led by Professor Cyril Renwick, a man of admirable and sterling qualities, an Australian of a rich, evenly balanced character. I mean rich in principles, not in the monetary sense. 
The measure before the Parliament proposes the making of a grant of $9m to the New South Wales Government, a mere bagatelle. When one thinks of $20m for a rocket firing destroyer, the money that the Government has poured down the drain on the Fill bomber or the $400ra estimated by economic experts as the cost to the Australian taxpayer of our involvement in Vietnam, $9m is chicken feed as I am reminded by the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  who is always diligent when debates take place in this Parliament. 
asked  the  Treasurer, upon notice: 
What financial assistance has been given by the Commonwealth within the Commonwealth and the Territories for the preservation of buildings or the like for historical purposes or for tourism. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. The right honourable gentleman will remember that Parliament tendered a dinner to  Sir Robert  Menzies a month after he retired from the Parliament. He will also remember that his predecessor, in leading the tributes on  Sir John  McEwen's last day in the House last October, forecast that there would be other occasions in the future for us to pay a tribute to  Sir John.  I therefore ask whether arrangements will now be made for a dinner at which suitable tributes can be paid to  Sir John  for his great services not only to the Australian Country Party but also to the Liberal Party of Australia and the whole Parliament. 
I welcome the opportunity to contribute to this debate. In the main, I support the remarks of the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden).  However, I om disappointed that there are not more Government supporters speaking on a matter of such public importance as the Criminology Research Bill. Last night, we saw the Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes)  and the Government hurriedly expedite the presentation to the House of a Bill dealing with law and order and concerned primarily with young university students whom history will show are displaying a deep sense of true Australian nationalism. However, governments, State and Federal, are virtually dragging their feet in proposing reforms to the criminal law. The legislation now before the House is long overdue. Whilst on the one hand I am critical of the Attorney-General for the Bill he introduced last night, on the other hand I admire him for introducing this Bill, despite its lateness. Crime in Australia. Great Britain and the United States of America has reached an all time high and it is only when it reaches an all time high that people in the respective nations begin to show concern. 
When I was a mere boy in this Parliament - about 8 years ago - 1 pointed out to the Parliament that police commissioners were not disclosing to their State governments the true rate of crime, lt was suggested in the lobbies that 1 was being vindictive to a former superior officer. Now, the police commissioners are revealing, because they realise they cannot hide them any longer, the true crime figures to their respective State governments. It is difficult for a police force to correlate true figures relating to crime and J shall give the House an instance. Recently, in the eastern suburbs of Sydney, there were approximately 40 robberies committed in an identical manner. No honourable member, if he had known the details, would have suggested that all these robberies had not been committed by the one person. Then, the evil-doer was caught in the act. He said that he was looking for an aunt but the police had some common sense and told him to think of another excuse. He was convicted and - I think I am correct in saying this - the Police Department wiped off from its crime records the other 39 robberies. The Department said that it was convinced that the convicted man had committed an 40 robberies, because after his arrest that type of robbery had ceased. 
Other things go on which are not always in keeping with my own principles, where the police departments probably go too far in expunging from the records some crimes that should be truly shown to their governments. Indeed, where police forces in cer- tain States formerly claimed an 80 per cent clear-up of crime they are now coming closer to the truth and are showing about a 40 per cent clear-up of crime. I am doubtful whether the figure is as high as that. Many crimes are falsely reported, especially crimes which, in a capitalist, free enterprise society, are committed for money. People will often report to their insurance companies the theft of much more than has, in fact, been stolen. If one were to know the actual value of goods stolen and could compare it with what has been claimed from insurance companies, it would be just laughable. These are the people who serve on juries, the pillars of society, probably the only people in the civilian section of the community who are invited to a royal dinner in Kings Hall. They are probably running a business and if they are robbed they say: 'He got away with S3,000', when the thief probably got away with . only $1,200. These are the people we have to salute. These are the people who are knighted. These are the pillars of society who contribute funds to the coffers of the Liberal-Country Party Government. I could name certain people whom 1 feel confident have robbed insurance companies in this way but I will not do so even under the privilege of the Parliament because I do not believe in using the privilege of the Parliament unless I am absolutely positive that what I am saying is true. 
Later I. will refer in the Parliament to severe criticism which I directed to one of the senior members of the Press Gallery who tried to silence me in connection with an allegation I made in the Parliament some two or three years ago. As a result of the allegation that I made some five or seven people are now, two or three years later, standing trial at the Sydney criminal court in connection with a serious offence. I have no doubt that if the jury, the judge, the crown prosecutor and the counsel for the defence do their jobs fairly and squarely the persons now standing trial will receive a substantial sentence. When the case is concluded I will then refer to it in the Parliament. 
No-one has ever diagnosed the cause of crime or even put forward an adequate theory to account for it. University research has progressed no further than laying down pilot schemes in an endeavour to learn how the causes of crime may be discovered. Since the great train robbery in Great Britain in 1962 referred to in the book The Crime Explosion' by Peter Gladstone-Smith - the book refers to the situation in Great Britain - much thought has been given to the subject. Nevertheless crime has increased steadily and no easy answers have been forthcoming. To my mind the capitalist free enterprise society is the cause of crime. Certain social changes seem to contribute to increasing crime. In particular, immigration on a large scale seems to bring about a more unsettled state of affairs. Since the war and the incidence of large scale migration bank hold-ups in Sydney and throughout the Commonwealth have become the order of the day. They were seldom heard of prior to the war. Dugan and Meares were about the first people in this nation to perpetrate a machine gun bank hold-up. That occurred at Ultimo about 20 years ago. In America, a nation made up entirely of immigrants, the crime rate is about 10 times higher than it is in our mother country Great Britain. 
One should not allow himself to think that in Great Britain or even in Australia crimes are committed mainly by immigrants. We in Australia should be grateful for the contribution that large sections of immigrants have made to our society. We appreciate the many thousands of very worthy migrants who have come to Australia since the implementation of our migration policy. We should also be frank with ourselves and with the nation and state that much of our violent crime has been and is being perpetrated by a minority of the new arrivals. How they got through the screening of our immigration officials in other lands is beyond me. Our immigration officials must be incompetent. I prefer to say that to saying that they are subject to graft and persuasion. Only about 10 per cent of new Australians are inmates in New South Wales prisons. I was amazed to learn recently that at the hospital for the criminally insane at Morisset which is in my electorate - formerly it was in the electorate of Robertson which now is very worthily represented by  Mr Cohen  - 50 per cent of the criminally mental inmates are immigrants to Australia. To my knowledge no statistics are kept by the respective State police forces relating to crimes committed by new Australians. Far be it from me to cast aspersions on our very worthy migrants from other lands. 
Will this Bill solve the problem? No doubt it will assist. I welcome the introduction of the Criminology Research Bill. It is long overdue. I expected that some legislative action of this nature would have come before the House many years ago. This is an historical move by the Parliament which I welcome. In his second reading speech the Minister, when referring to the cost of crime in the United States, said that it amounted to some $20,000m. The Rural Bank of New South Wales estimated in 1968 that the cost of crime in Australia was about $350m a year. That too was mentioned by the Minister in his second reading speech. Is it any wonder that the Attorney-General and the Government have had to tackle the problem? Will this measure now being debated provide the answer? The Minister said: 
There can be no gainsaying that the incidence of crime is rising in Australia. 
I think that the Minister is very considerate in his use of words. Crime in Australia is galloping, the primary reasons in my view being the shortage of police and inadequately trained police. Low morale due to low wages and inadequate equipment because of the low priority that State governments have given in years past to the allocation of funds in this direction have further contributed to the upsurge in serious crime. Once a police force has been allowed to fall below strength it takes, in my view, 20 or 25 years to recover. Recruits are taken In and, before they are properly trained, are assigned to the duties formerly carried out by senior and experienced officers. They become senior officers before they are themselves trained. Then they become responsible for the training of juniors. These factors apply not only to the State police forces of this country. Almost identical circumstances have been the burden of the police forces in the United States and in the United Kingdom which also have experienced an upsurge in crime. Now that the door has been opened to the Commonwealth by the States' co-operation in approving this legislation, it is hoped that this will be the forerunner of other action designed to improve the lot of those  persons charged with the responsibility of relieving law abiding citizens of the constant fear of being the victim of organised crime. 
How has this Parliament been affected by crime? We have seen an attempt on the life of a former Prime Minister,  Mr Harold  Holt. We have seen an attempt on the life of the former Leader of the Opposition, the right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell).  The life of the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr Cairns)  was placed in jeopardy. We have seen a bomb attack in Sydney recently on the home of Senator-elect Gietzelt. The newspapers have not indicated whether there is any prospect of arresting anyone for it. Unfortunately it is not until the lives of important citizens are placed in jeopardy that our parliaments move into the field in which we are now moving. 
I was happy that the Minister referred in his second reading speech to unreported crime. That is referred to in one or two of  3  books that I have here.  1  have referred already to "The Crime Explosion' by Peter Gladstone-Smith. The second is The Honest Politician's Guide to Crime Control' by Norman Morris and Gordon Hawkins. If time permits, I hope to make some reference to that book. But the gem of them all, one to which I shall make some reference before I exhaust my time, is 'All Manner of People' by  Mr A.  E. Debenham, a highly respected man who formerly was a magistrate at one of the Sydney metropolitan children's courts. 
I am glad that the Minister referred to unreported crime. No-one knows the extent of unreported crime. If the claims figures from insurance companies were collated they might give some indication but in my view they would be somewhat inflated. I am referring mainly in this respect to claims for goods lost or stolen in transit, whether by ship, rail or road. I remember an incident during the war years when a case of micrometers which were vitally important to the Australian war effort was shipped here from the United States. When the case was opened it was found to contain bricks consistent with the weight of the micrometers. 1 hope that this legislation will overcome some of the problems encountered in crime detection. The bricks were taken to a certain section at the University of Sydney for analysis and it was found that they contained soil which was very common near the place where the micrometers were made in the United States. This proved beyond any doubt that our unfortunate wharf labourers, who, it is alleged, are the greatest pillagers in the world, were not responsible and that the theft occurred in the United States. The micrometers had been taken out of the case and probably were sold elsewhere. It is hoped that this legislation will make scientific facilities accessible to police forces in this Commonwealth so that they can quickly test the contents of such things as those bricks. Police will be able to go to some establishment and say: 'This case is supposed to have come from Turkey. Where did these bricks come from?'. Then the police will be able to determine whether a crime was committed in New South Wales, in Australia or overseas. 
I think that the allocation of  S50.000  by the Commonwealth to set up an Institute of Criminology and a Criminology Research Council is far less than adequate but it is a step in the right direction, in Australia crime investigation has been given a low priority for many years. Police forces have been reluctant to reveal the true incidence of crime for too long. As I said earlier, I mentioned this fact soon after coming to Parliament. In a murder case the police department will depute scores of detectives to the investigation and will provide clerks to assist them. I realise I will have to curtail my remarks,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  but I would like to have imparted more information to the House. A crime investigator spends one-third of his day investigating crime, one-third of his day in attending to correspondence and one-third of his day attending court. This is over a period of 1 2  months. 
I have heard people say that this could and should be overcome by having civilian typists to do confidential reports. However, police officers are no more immune from libel actions than is John Citizen in the street. A police officer has to ask himself:  Ms this  fair?'. Therefore civilians cannot be used to type confidential reports for superior officers if that report is along these lines: 'While there is an absence of evidence to lay a charge against John Smith, I believe that he is responsible.' If that civilian leaked that information to someone other than the superior officer the police officer concerned would be liable to a civil action for damages. Yet a policeman is a low wage earner. He will not take the risk. That is one of the principal reasons why crime throughout Australia has reached the unprecedented heights that it has reached. 
What do we find in other professions? I will refer to the medical profession, many of whom are members of my Party. I admire them greatly. The medical profession has a fund. To illustrate this point I would like to quote from the 'Daily Telegraph' of Thursday, 4th March. On issues such as this, the 'Daily Telegraph* could be right but on political issues I would not accept anything that it said. In this article the 'Daily Telegraph' said: 
An infallible fact of life is that nobody is infallible and - as  uncomforting  as the thought might be - doctors are no exception. ... So much so that in New South Wales alone doctors are currently paying out nearly $200,000 a year to insure themselves against the financial repercussions of mistakes. 
In other words, legal action. But what happens in the case of the poor old cop? He has no safeguard and his wife and children can be thrown to the wolves. He is no longer prepared to take the risk for society and the politicians who are not prepared to introduce legislation to protect him. 
In conclusion, I want to say that it is the capitalist society which is responsible for crime. I want to quote some of the words of the learned magistrate I mentioned,  Mr Debenham.  He said: 
I saw the misery of broken homes and deserted wives and neglected children.  (Extension of time granted) I thank honourable members for their courtesy.  Mr Debenham  said: 
I saw the misery of broken homes and deserted wives and neglected children. I saw the beginnings of resentment and hatred in the faces of small children whose attitude towards life was warped by drinking and gambling. I saw murder, assault and woe marching behind the bottle and the bookie. In my years as chamber magistrate and later on the bench I saw all the variations of agony they brought in their wake. 
I applaud the Government for introducing this legislation; but we will never overcome the incidence of brutal crime until we overcome the problems of a capitalist society. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. I notice that the Department of Works announced in the Commonwealth 'Gazette' for 26th November last that it had let a contract for $7,672 for repairs and painting of the Prime Minister's residence at 'Terang' in Victoria. I assume that 'Terang' is a misprint for Kerang. I pass a copy of the Commonwealth 'Gazette'- 
It is obvious that the public interest has gone out of this legislation. This is particularly evident from the absence of the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr N. 1-1. Bowen)  from the House tonight. When the Government first indicated its intention to bring down this legislation it was hoped that it would have the passionate backing of society in general. But it has not, and the Parliament knows it has not. There are about 4 members of the Government in the chamber at the present time. Legislation of this type, 1 should imagine, would be first initiated by the police authorities, who would ask the Government to introduce it. Nowhere in the Minister's second reading speech can I see an indication that a request has been made by the police authorities to the Government for such legislation. 
I endorse the remarks of honourable members on this side of the House, particularly the remark of the honourable member for Swan  (Mr Bennett),  that there is adequate legislation on the statute books of the Commonwealth to deal with breaches of law and order. In the industrial part of the country from which I come, the Newcastle and Hunter Valley regions, the police authorities have depended on the New South Wales Crimes Act - and, incidentally, legislation based on that Act has been in force in the Australian Capital Territory for some time - and on the offence created in the Crimes Act of unlawful assembly. The purpose of this law is to break up strikes, particularly on the northern coal fields where I was reared. This legislation is still on the statute books and could be used by the law enforcement authorities against demonstrators if they saw fit. There is a substantia] penalty provided in the statutes for unlawful assembly; it is referred to in Hamilton and Addison's 'Criminal Law and Procedure'. The Government was inspired to introduce this legislation by the wave of lawlessness in the United States and the indication by the United States government of its intention to introduce law and order legislation. As I said, it was expected to be applauded in this country but such has not been the case. 
Police officers for many years have depended on the provisions in the law for offensive behaviour, riotous behaviour and insulting behaviour to break up gatherings of people who demonstrate and overstep the mark. The offensive behaviour charge is a dragnet charge used by police authorities throughout the Commonwealth when there has been no special provision under which they can arrest people. I think the High Court once defined offensive behaviour as behaviour by an individual which is considered offensive to the person against whom it is used or someone closely associated with him. That definition is quite a wide one and is often referred to by people who interest themselves in that breach of the law as similar to the defence charge of conduct prejudicial to good order and military discipline - a dragnet charge which encompasses a multitude of sins. To my mind the unfortunate feature of this legislation is that it is directed against a section of society which, if it has not already been proved, will be shown by history to have displayed to the nation during the Vietnam crisis the deepest sense of nationalism that any Australians have ever before displayed. They are decent law abiding citizens who are protesting against an obnoxious law. Clarence Darrow, the late eminent criminal lawyer of the United Stales, said that when a law is easily broken it is an obnoxious law and should be removed from the statute book. 
I suggest that this Government would be more highly regarded by the nation if it were introducing a Bill to repeal the National Service Act, an Act which has brought about the situation in which the Government has seen fit to introduce the obnoxious Bill now before us and which is directed against the deep sense of nationalism displayed by demonstrators. I do not think for one second it will have any effect towards reducing the number of demonstrators because the number will grow stronger and stronger until every Australian boy is withdrawn from Vietnam. The Government would be acting with a national inspiration similar to that shown by the demonstrators if it were to repeal the laws that have brought about the situation in Australia today in which it believes this legislation to be necessary. 1 would like the Attorney-General to tell the Parliament whether the police authorities sought these stronger laws. I suggest that they did not, and that the police authorities have sufficient laws now to break up demonstrations when they see fit. 
Here we find penalties imposed on a good section of society which are commensurate with the penalties provided under the pistol licence legislation. . I think only a $400 fine is provided for persons convicted of carrying an unlicensed pistol between 7 p.m. and 7 a.m. This is an offence committed by the worst and most incorrigible criminals in the country. So it is true to say, as has been said by. honourable members on this side of the House, that the Government is putting demonstrators, by the penalties it intends to impose under this legislation, in the same category as incorrigible habitual criminals who are found carrying unlicensed pistols at night. Only a small penalty is needed. If demonstrators overstep the mark they should be removed from society only for a brief period and then we should consider what they are demonstrating about. I am very proud when members of my family take part in peaceful demonstrations against the conscription laws which this Government introduced so defiantly of public opinion. It shocks me that members of the Government stand up and support laws such as this when on the Government benches one finds 16 to 17 Government members of military age who are physically and probably mentally fit to join the armed forces to serve in Vietnam. Ever since we have been involved in Vietnam not one supporter of the Government of military age has seen fit to enlist and go over there. Yet they will be a party to sending some other person's child to be slaughtered in this filthy unwinnable war which is meeting with world disapproval and which will remain to the utter disgrace of the United States for centuries to come. 
The honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown)  also spoke of the legislation to protect our embassies. 1 think every honourable member on this side of the House agrees that our foreign embassies and officials should be protected. But I do not agree that there is a need for additional protection of foreign embassies. That is provided already. We are aware of the recent embarrassment to which Australians were subjected by several attacks on the Soviet Embassy. If similar attacks were made on our Embassy in Moscow we would ask the Soviet authorities to do something to bring the perpetrators of the crime to justice. The New South Wales Crimes Act, previously referred to in my speech, has been operating in the Australian Capital Territory for some years. Section 201 of that Act states: 
Whosoever maliciously sets fire to any matter or thing in against or under any building, vehicle or aircraft under such circumstances that if the building, vehicle or  aircraft  were thereby set on fire the offence would amount to a felony shall be liable to penal servitude for 7 years. 
The Crimes Act contains provisions in relation to malicious injury to property. Very heavy penalties are provided. This proves that it was not necessary to introduce additional legislation to protect foreign embassies in Australia. I believe that the clause was inserted to coat this obnoxious legislation against demonstrators with a type of sugar coating so that the bitter pill might be swallowed more easily by society. The Government knew that the reactions of society had waned considerably since it announced its intention to introduce this legislation. 
The honourable member for Diamond Valley also spoke of the heroic glee, to use his phrase, that the honourable member for Lalor gained by promoting offences in Victoria in relation to Commonwealth property. I think the honourable member for Lalor is more respected by the Australian people than is the honourable member for Diamond Valley. Those who do not agree with the politics of the honourable member for Lalor have described him to me as a man of great courage. They have said that there should be more of his type in parliament. The honourable member for Lalor is driven by a conscience. I do not think any honourable member opposite is prepared to appear on television and debate with the honourable member for Lalor the Vietnam war and interrelated subject matters. I regard the honourable member for Lalor as one of Australia's experts on the history of Vietnam and on our involvement in the war there. 
The honourable member for Diamond Valley also spoke of the necessity for uniformity in the laws relating to public disorder. I would have liked him to have made some reference to what other nations do in connection with offences relating to foreign embassies. I should have thought that it would have been better if there had been uniformity throughout the world in relation to such offences. He spoke of the Vienna Convention of 1961. It was designed to get some degree of uniformity in the protection of foreign embassies. Recently a Yugoslavian Embassy official was murdered by a member of the Croation Liberation Front. If the Government was sincere, it would have introduced laws to deal with the type of bombing that was attributed to some Croats whom it has allowed to migrate to Australia. The Government did not bother to introduce stricter laws to deal with that kind of thing. 
The Government waited until it thought that it had public opinion behind it, having in mind the demonstrations taking place against Australia's involvement in Vietnam, before taking action. Although the people of our mother country - Great Britain - are not involved in the Vietnam conflict, they have been demonstrating against it to a greater extent than the people of Australia, but the British Government has not seen fit - 1 believe rightly so - to introduce legislation to control those people in Great Britain who are demonstrating against the butchery that is being perpetrated by the Western allies in Vietnam. There have been widespread demonstrations in West Germany, which is not involved in the Vietnam conflict, against the attitude of the United States of America to Vietnam, but the West German Government has not introduced law and order legislation to prevent the people in that country from demonstrating. 
I believe that, as a result of the gallant and brave actions of some women in Victoria in going to gaol in protest against the destroying of human life and in the hope that others might live, there will be more demonstrations by the mothers of our nation against our involvement in Vietnam. They are determined that they will not be the producers of gun fodder for a capitalistic government. The women of Australia have woken up to the evil of conscripting their sons to serve in Vietnam and will not allow themselves to be used as the producers of gun fodder and to be reduced virtually to receptacles for man's bloody lust. I believe that further revolts by these people of deep nationalistic principles will compel this Government to abandon this obnoxious legislation, which is bringing about in Australia a state of lawlessness and disorder of unprecedented heights. I believe that if the Government cannot see its way clear to repeal this legislation it will be annihilated at the ballot box in the next election. I bitterly oppose this legislation for the reasons I have given. There is adequate provision in the statutes books to control demonstrators without the Government having to introduce obnoxious legislation which is designed to put demonstrators in the position of being the worst criminals in the country. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr  Kennedy) adjourned. 
Coming as I do from a major coal mining constituency I would like to make a contribution to this debate. First and foremost I want to congratulate the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  and the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  for the way in which they informed this House and the people of this nation tonight about something which I consider should cause great concern to every Australian, and that is the exorbitant profits that Clutha Developments Pty Ltd- 
I will reluctantly respond to the request made by the Minister because he is generally respected by all honourable members on this side of the House. I will curtail my remarks. The disclosures in this Parliament tonight by the honourable member for Cunningham and the honourable member for Hughes of the extensive profits which will be made by this foreign company, Clutha Development Pty Ltd, and the privileges which have obviously been extended to it by the New South Wales Liberal or free enterprise government are scandalous and should shock the people of this nation. It is to the everlasting credit of honourable members on this side of the House who have disclosed the information to the Parliament tonight. I could say a lot more but, as I have said, the Minister has requested that I curtail my remarks. I hope that the information disclosed in this debate by the Minister for the Navy  (Dr Mackay)  on the Government side of the House and by the honourable members for Cunningham and Hughes on this side will be fully printed in the Press tomorrow so the people of Australia, who are the jury of this Parliament, can sum up for themselves the integrity of the New South Wales Government in allowing the exorbitant profit of $ 2000m to be made by this foreign company over the next 20 years. 
It is not my intention to use the full time available to me in this debate. I believe that what I am going to say to honourable members will meet with their approval. At this particular time in our history the Aus- tralian Government should be endeavouring to promote international relations on a higher plane with all countries, particularly those with whom we have very good trade relations. Last week in Canberra there appeared before the court 2 men who had journeyed across from Western Australia last January and had exploded 1 or 2 bombs at a foreign embassy in Canberra, causing extensive damage. It could well have been that- 
I ask the AttorneyGeneral: Under the provisions of the Public Order (Protection of Persons and Property) Bill which was passed by this House last week, would it be possible for a sentence heavier than the term of 18 months hard labour passed on the 2 persons convicted of bombing one of the foreign posts in Canberra - and one of the most attacked foreign posts in Australia - to have been imposed? Can the Minister say what was the maximum penalty provided for the offence of which these 2 persons were charged? 
I intend to be very brief in my remarks to the House. I have some knowledge of the matters that the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  has mentioned. I commend him for his forthright statements to the Parliament. The liquor interests of this country have tremendous power and influence, and on occasions in order to achieve their objective they will resort to some grievous evils which are worse than any other monopoly organisation would resort to. Recently the Public Works Committee was at Mt Tom Price in Western Australia. We learned there that the price of a 7-ounce glass of liquor was 23c or 24c. The imposition of exorbitant charges in this region of Australia just shows what the liquor interests have been able to get away with. They have been able to get away with incidents such as the one referred to by the honourable member for Bradfield for many, many years I believe that if more members of Parliament - State and Federal - took a greater interest in the evils that the people attached to liquor interests seek to achieve and achieve from time to time, and had them rectified by 
Parliament, the community in general would be much healthier and politicians in general, would be more respected. 
The Minister for the Army  (Mr Peacock)  has just dished out a rather aggressive insult to the honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison).  In his speech the Minister painted a very rosy picture of civilian aid by his Department in Vietnam. I point out to the people of Australia who are listening to this broadcast that the Minister was 26 years of age when Australia became involved in the war in Vietnam but he, like other Liberal Party supporters, was not prepared to put on a uniform and go to Vietnam. He was, however, prepared to conscript other people's children. Apparently he prefers to lie on Sheridan sheets in his home in Melbourne than to spend his time lying around the swamps and jungles in Vietnam. 
You know what I have advocated and you know what I have done. The Minister for the Army may have been afraid of losing his standing as one of Australia's best groomed men. He gained a great deal of publicity from that. This debate has been an interesting one for this Parliament and it will be for the benefit of Australia. The Australian people as a whole sighed with relief at the Government's decision to withdraw Australian troops from Vietnam. I want to make some reference to the remarks of some Government supporters who still cling to the hawkish line in international affairs. This afternoon the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  appeared to have some feeling of repentance at the Government's action in connection with conscription. It was only a matter of time before this Government would change its policy on conscription because public opinion polls have shown a swing against the Government from month to month because of its continued policy on conscription. The honourable member for Lyne said that not only had members of the Opposition placed a great strain on the Government in connection with its Vietnam policy but that other honourable members had felt the same way. I interpret his remark as one of repentance and regret. The honourable member, like other honourable members on the Government side, has never had the courage to stand and denounce the Government as did the late  Senator Hannaford,  who resigned from the Libera] Party because of the Government's Vietnam policy. The Government is positively defensive in regard to its South East Asian policy and particularly its nonrecognition of the People's Republic of China. The Government is concerned at its loss of substantial wheat sales to China. Australian wheat sales to China were 31 per cent to 33 per cent of our total production which represents only li per cent of the total consumption of wheat by the people of China. I have heard Government supporters say that they would not sell any wheat to China; that they would sooner let the people of China starve. That is a ridiculous statement to make when one looks at our wheat sales to China. This Government is worried because of the crisis which exists in the rural industry. 
Members of the Country Party have stretched the loyalty of their supporters to breaking point and it is doubtful whether the Government's supporters in urban areas will continue to support it in the future. This will be due to the successful mission of the Australian Labor Party delegation to China a short time ago. Members of the Government always purposely refrain from telling the truth about China. Prior to the Communist Government coming to power, the average life expectancy in China was 28 to 30 years. Women had to sell their children, the new born babies, in the street by the pound. This was a chaotic and distressing situation which should reach the heart of the most steely man. 
This situation brought the Communist Party into power. These things no longer exist in the People's Republic of China, which I visited in 1962. I have been the Vice-President of the New South Wales Branch of the Australian-China Friendship Society for some years and 1 am proud to hold that position, in my mind, China is not an aggressive nation. There are numerous books in the library that honourable members on the Government side will not allow themselves to read. 
There is an interjection from a member of the Australian Country Party about Tibet. One of the most talented men in the Department of Foreign Affairs resigned and wrote a book on Tibet entitled 'In Fear of China'. It would do the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull),  who interjected, good to read that book. Tibet was always a part of China. Another book on Tibet that is worth reading is by Alan Winnington, an English writer, entitled 'Slaves of the Cool Mountains'. He tells that slaves bred slaves, hobbled them like horses and put them out into the fields to work so that they would not have to put guards on them. This was under the old Dalai Lama rule. The Chinese have removed that type of slavery from Tibet. Tibet was always a part of China and the people of Tibet are better off today under direct Chinese rule than they were under the old Dalai Lama rule. I would put more faith in the writings crf that outstanding Australian diplomat, Gregory Clark, in his book 'In Fear of China', which is here for any honourable member to look at, than I would in what honourable members opposite say about China. 
China has been criticised by members of the Government for its so-called aggressive attitude towards India. There is any amount of evidence available in the Parliamentary Library to show that China was correct in defining her borders with India. China had border disputes round about the time that she came into conflict with India. She had border disputes with Burma, Nepal and Pakistan. I have seen copies of the letters that the Chinese Government wrote to the governments of those countries, asking for a round table conference to define their borders because China bad no defined borders with them after the Communist Government took over the country from the old corrupt, crooked Chiang Kai-shek regime. The governments of Burma, Nepal and Pakistan conferred round the conference table, and the border disputes between those countries and China were cleaned up in a proper, peaceful manner. But the letters written by the Chinese Government to India were never answered by the Indian Government. 
India is not lily white. No questions were raised in this Parliament when the Indians walked into Goa a matter of three or four years ago. There were protests by the Portuguese Government, particularly to Britain asking Britain whether she was going to stand by and allow this to happen without her using her good offices with India. Portugal threatened to break off a treaty which she had had with Britain for many years under which British warships were allowed to use bases in Portugal. But there was no criticism in this Parliament of India's aggressive attitude towards the colony of Goa. I made some study of the conflict between India and China over the McMahon line and I believe, as many important world figures who have made greater studies than I have - British people - that China was correct over the border dispute with India and the McMahon line. 
Yes, there was Bertrand Russell, who had a great deal of respect from people all over the world for his independent, forthright opinions. We have heard so much about this Chinese bogey for so long, but now some of the truth is starting to come out. It is strange that noone ever objected from the Government side of this Parliament about China's purchase of Stg 17m worth of rubber from Malaya almost annually in approximately the last 7 years. If rubber cannot be regarded as strategic material I do not know how else it can be regarded. We have adopted a stupid attitude in offending these people when we depend on other countries to buy our goods and so maintain our standard of living. I believe that the rural community is seriously in doubt as to whether it will place its loyalties with members of the Country Party, due to that Party's attitude to China in the years gone by. 
As the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  said this afternoon, honourable members opposite are living in fear of losing the preferences of the Democratic Labor Party. China seems to be getting on well with many of the smaller countries, as the honourable member for Forrest  (Mr Kirwan)  said this afternoon. China has recently exchanged diplomatic relations with Chile. She is improving her relations with Portugal and Spain, 2 countries often referred to by many Australians as Fascist countries. Austria and China have just agreed to institute diplomatic relations. 1 believe that this Government has left its run too late. We know that the Government is changing face and is going to vote for China's admission to the United Nations, but I think it has left its run too late, because the Chinese realise, and they state, that we have been the puppets of the United States for too long. I think there is some merit in that accusation. 
Also, China is giving a substantial grant of about $70m to one of the British Commonwealth countries, Ceylon. This is referred to in the 'Far East Economic Review' copies of which are available in the Parliamentary Library. It is true that China has the most powerful army in the world. But the Chinese army is equipped with small-scale weapons for defensive purposes. This was admitted by the Pentagon in an article in the 'Far East Economic Review' some 18 months or 2 years ago. It was pointed out in the same article that China had practically no air force, and what air force it did have was short of high octane fuel and spare parts. China has practically no navy. It has about 4 or 5 vintage Soviet submarines. What naval vessels it has are of shallow draft, to be used in shallow waters, not for carrying troops across the sea. This is the country that for many years has been held up as a great threat to Australia. When I was there I asked the Chinese people why they were arming themselves when they should give higher priority, I thought, to health and education. They pointed out that they had been invaded down through the centuries. They were building a defence force in case they were invaded again. 
They said this to me in 1962. I think honourable members would admit, at least in private to their friends, that there was a move to invade North Vietnam and China by the Chinese lobby in the United States during the period of the Vietnam war. China is aware that she is virtually circumvented by American nuclear bases. Owing to her history, China is reluctantly pouring more money into defence than she would like to do. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Debate (on morion by  Mr Reid)  adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from 5.56 to 8 p.m. 
-I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. 
The serious decline in social services has intensified the hardships faced by pensioners and families on lower incomes. 
Therefore as a matter of urgency, the Commonwealth Government should immediately allocate extra finances to social services. 
The petition of the undersigned urges your Government to increase immediately 
Pensions - by $5.00 per week. 
Child Endowment - to $3.60 per week per child. 
Maternity Allowance - to at least $117 for each child born. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I ask the Prime Minister: In view of his thwarted effort to write directly to the Soviet Premier,  Mr Kosygin,  does he intend to visit the Soviet Union or extend an invitation to  Mr Kosygin  to visit Australia in return for the visit of the former  Deputy  Prime Minister? 
May I say,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that I hope to conclude my remarks, without petty interruptions, before my allotted time expires. I wish to make brief comments on the remarks of the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull).  I think that members of the Opposition agree with his submissions in regard to having a set telephone charge for market areas in the rural sections of the nation. He made reference also to the Country Party group in the Parliament as being the fighting force for people in Australian rural areas. 
The honourable member for Mallee agrees with me that that is true. If the honourable member for Mallee and those in his section of the Parliament - that is, the Country Party - had taken a more sensible and tolerant view of the recognition of the Peoples' Republic of China many years ago, the Australian wheat industry would not be in the plight that it is in today. I believe that public opinion is forcing the Country Party to change its attitude on this matter. 
I support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  in relation to the Broadcasting and Television Bill. I wish to make reference to some matters that I think have not been traversed in this debate. I am one of the last speakers in the debate and it is not easy to choose points that have not been touched on already by members of my own Party, in particular, who have dominated this debate. To my knowledge, in the electorate of Hunter the Postal Department is introducing new changes in connection with the opening up of more non-official post offices and the closing down of other nonofficial post offices. I had a courteous interview with the District Postal Inspector,  Mr Frost,  from Maitland for which I was most appreciative. I believe that the matter that I raised has been cleared up to this point. It is in relation to an important section of my electorate in which there is to be a switch over from a permanent post office at Abermain to a non-official post office. I believe that, in view of the facts given to me by  Mr Frost,  we would have great difficulty in justifying our opposition to such a move. I was informed by the District Postal Inspector - I am not being critical of him in making these remarks - of the anticipated closure of the Stanford Merthyr post office which serves approximately 450 people in my electorate. This post office has operated in the coal mining area of Stanford Merthyr since I was a small boy. The residents of this area will need to travel 2 miles to 3 miles to use postal note facilities of the type that they are able to use now and have been able to use for many years at Stanford Merthyr. I do hope that the Postmaster-General, who is accepted as a courteous man by members of the Opposition, will look at the contemplated closure of the Stanford Merthyr Post Office. It is run by English people who have been there for 17 years. They are highly respected in the area and have played an important part in building up good citizenship in the whole of the district in which they live. Last year, the postal note quote for this post office was raised from $10 to $41. Let me spell that out. As many honourable members would know, a post office is limited to a certain allocation in respect of postal notes. These people are limited to an allocation of $10. Last year this allocation was increased to $41. This demonstrates the increased business in this post office field alone. If the closure proceeds, the public telephone on the private premises of the Stanford Merthyr Post Office will be withdrawn or relocated. A petition - this matter has not been inflamed by irresponsible people - has been taken up to seek to retain the Stanford Merthyr Post Office. I do hope that the Postmaster-General will have a look at this matter and will try to obviate the need for the closure of this post office at which a good service for so many years has been maintained by these good Post Office people. I hope that this facility will continue in this area. 1 wish to point to some remarks by the Minister on the Post and Telegraph Bill 1971. These remarks might be considered as deceiving or as the skilled use of sematics or words, for which politicians are noted. The Postmaster-General stated: 
The one-third reduction in rentals which is given to blind persons and certain classes of pensioners will be maintained. 
A person not examing those words carefully would think that no extra cost will be involved with the installation of telephones or in respect of telephone rentals for blind people and certain classes of pensioners. But we well know that rentals have been increased. This will add an additional financial burden to blind people and certain classes of pensioners when they have a telephone installed. My only wish is that the Postmaster-General had clarified this matter more clearly in his remarks and had stated that although they receive the benefit of the one-third reduction in charges, the extra burden of increased installation fees would be imposed on blind persons and certain classes of pensioners. 
Too much, in my opinion. I would like to see these people on miserly incomes granted television licences free of charge. When I recall the financial fiasco into which the Australian Government has committed its country on the Fill, I believe that the Government could well justify the provision of free television licences to blind persons and certain classes of pensioners in this country which is supposed to be so affluent. 
If the honourable member wants me to eat up my full time, he should keep interjecting. The PostmasterGeneral from time to time in this House has expressed his views with regard to the vandalism that takes place in public telephone boxes. This vandalism is something which, I think, every member of this House abhors. I understand from people who have given some attention to this menace that all of the damage is not done by vandals in the real sense of the word vandals'. It is caused by people who lose their tempers because of faulty telephone mechanism and after having lost 2 or 3 coins in trying to make an urgent telephone call. Much of this damage is not caused by people who would ordinarily be regarded by the community as vandals. If the mechanism of our public telephones was improved I believe that so called vandalism in public telephone boxes would drop considerably. 
Since electronic devices have been connected to assess telephone accounts I, and I guess many other members of this Parliament, have had complaints from constituents about the unreasonable increases in telephone accounts. In one case brought to my notice I was able to convince a reasponsible officer of the Postal Department that a mistake had been made. I was very impressed with the sincerity of 2 of my constituents who complained to me about their telephone account - a man and wife with no children. I carefully questioned them as to whether their children could be using the telephone without their knowledge, but they replied that they had no children. I asked them whether they lent the key of their home to neighbours who might be deceiving them by using their telephone, but I found that that could not be so. Each weekend they were away from home. 
Without telling the subscribers - and rightly so - the Postmaster-General's department had a count taken of the number of calls made. The postal officer concerned was decent enough to tell me that the result of the count was consistent with what the subscribers had told me and the postal officials when interrogated. The postal officials came to see the correctness of the subscriber's claim and that their suspicions that someone else had been using the telephone were unfounded. After this extensive research was carried out, to the credit of the postal officials they saw fit considerably to reduce the telephone account. I think that case proves that the mechanism that records the number of telephone calls is not always accurate. 
That is so. There is room for improvement in the mechanism. Only last Saturday I was approached by 2 very highly respected heads of a pensioner organisation in Kurri Kurri, in the electorate of Hunter. They asked me to raise in the House the increased charges for installing telephones for pensioners. I hope that these increased charges will not be imposed, but I am doubtful that the Government will alter its attitude now, as a vote is to be taken on this measure very shortly. I hope that the rental charges of telephones for pensioners will not be increased for many years. 
I also hope that television will be used to a greater extent for road safety instruction in an attempt to combat the shocking increase in the toll of the road. I believe that television could play a tremendous part in educating drivers. I would even go so far as suggesting that some free television time allotted to religious organisations should be devoted to road safety programmes. I believe that if a gallup poll were conducted on this matter the majority of Australians would subscribe to the reduction of television and radio time for religious organisations and an increase in the allocation of time for road safety education programmes. Greater use should be made of television for school education programmes. In preference to importing cheap overseas television films more employment should be offered to local artists. I wish the Postmaster-General would make a statement to the House on the dismissal by the Australian Broadcasting Commission of Michael Willesee, who was the very popular compere of Four Corners' and one of its most important personnel. Had he been employed by private enterprise he may have been reprimanded for breaching his contract or a fine may even have been imposed. I do not believe that private enterprise would have dismissed a man of his talents who has been so well received by the audience of 'Four Corners'. 
I believe that the Australian Broadcasting Commission should be used more to advertise government matters. I have in mind, for instance, recruiting campaigns for the Army, Navy and Air Force. The ABC should show the advertisements now shown on commercial television stations. While many members of this Parliament have been seeking decentralisation of industry, greater incentives are necessary. In the Hunter electorate we were fortunate in gaining the well known Australian firms of Bond's Industries Ltd and Casben Productions Ltd. They came to the coal fields region about 12 years ago when sweeping changes were taking place in the coal mining industry. I remind members of the Country Party that no subsidies were paid at that time when the men had to find jobs in other industries after spending a life time in coal mining. To encourage such moves by industry incentives such as telephone concessions, particularly for trunk line calls, should be offered for the first 2 or 3 years of country operations. In that way the businesses would be assisted to show a profit and decentralisation would be hastened. That completes the submissions I wish to make in the limited time available to me. 
The matter which 1 want to raise in the adjournment debate is causing great concern to 2 of my constituents in particular. A number of other constituents have been ringing my office - and rightly so - expressing their concern about this matter. It involves the Department of Social Services, and I am grateful that the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  is present in the chamber to hear what I have to say. I did what I thought was the courteous thing and got in touch with his office to let him know that I was raising this matter. I particularly want to refer to an article which appeared on the front page of the 'Newcastle Sun' on Friday, 27th August last. Apparently the Sydney newspapers do not go in for this type of publicity. This article points out, in my view, certain frailties in the Government's social services legislation. The woman the article concerns, has been in touch with my office on several occasions and I have spoken to her on the phone.  Her  husband is an invalid pensioner, but because of an increase in her meagre salary her husband's pension has been reduced from $16.90 to $9.20. This couple is treating the matter very seriously. They are  Mr and Mrs Vincent  Waters of Prospect Road, Garden Suburb, and they are thinking seriously of having their 30-year old marriage annulled because of what they and hundreds of thousands of other Australians consider to be shortcomings in the social services legislation under which a wife's income affects her husband's invalid pension. The headline of the newspaper article is: 'After 30 years their choice is . . . Marriage or Pension'. The article shows a photograph of the Minister for Social Services and beside the photograph it states: 
Memo to the Minister: These are the sort of problems that could have been debated last night. 
The article continues: 
A Newcastle couple will seek to have their 30- year-old marriage annulled unless a full invalid pension is restored to the husband. 
The article then quotes their names and continues: 
. they said today they, had been forced to consider ending their marriage by a Government that didn't care.' 
The Department of Social Services has advised 65-year old  Mr Waters  that his invalid pension will be reduced from $16.90 to $9.20 as a result of an increase in his wife's salary. 

 His wife, 54-year old  Mrs Marjorie  Waters, is the manageress of the Cardiff Railway Workshop canteen and has an average 'take home pay' of $91 a fortnight. 
The Department has also advised  Mr Waters  that he is no longer entitled to Commonwealth subsidiary benefits such as telephone rental concession, pensioner medical service and reduced radio and television licence fees. 
He has also been told to return to the Department his pensioner medical service entitlement card and bis pension and transport concession fare certificate card. 
The article continues: 1 married Vin because I loved him and I still do',  Mrs Marjorie  Waters said tearfully today. 
I idolise the ground he walks on but we are prepared to annul our marriage, if necessary, to get justice.' 
It continues: 
For the past seven weeks,  Mr Waters  has been a patient in Roy,al Newcastle Hospital suffering from a fractured right leg. 
He has been an invalid pensioner since he suffered a severe injury to his left hip in an accident in May, 1969. 
The couple have one child, a married son who is serving in the RAAF. 

 Mr Waters received word of the Department's decision on his pension from his wife in hospital today. 
He said he was 'both shocked and disgusted.' i have to be kept by my wife because I can't work myself,' he said. 
How would you feel if you were in the same position? 
I think honourable members will agree that a man with any moral spunk in him at all must be reduced to a feeling, in real Australian language, that he is a bludger on his wife. 
I have listened tonight with great attention to what the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  said. I must say that his speech tonight is not the best contribution he has made to debates in this Parliament. The honourable member spoke about Napoleonic wars and about Neville Chamberlain, Lord Byron and others. In my view the wars he spoke of were virtually fought with balloons on sticks when one considers the devastating weapons which the major powers in the world have available today. Anyone knowing little about politics who listened to the honourable member for Mallee may have been impressed by his remarks, but I believe the value of his contribution to this debate lies in what he did not say. The honourable member made no reference to the Pentagon papers. He made no reference to the fact that the United States was on the verge of using nuclear weapons in Vietnam. 
I will make a reference and I will quote from the Pentagon papers. The extract reads: 
The materials published by the New York Times contain few references to this problem. But some additional facts are cited in an article carried by the New York Journal National Review. These indicate that in 1954 the Joint Chiefs of Staff proposed to Secretary of Defence, Charles E. Wilson, that: 
A high altitude nuclear bomb be exploded 'by way of demonstration' in the area of the North 
Vietnamese port of Haiphong. 
In 1962 the Pentagon was working on a nuclear demonstration' on a larger scale, namely, the use of bombs and other nuclear weapons against military targets of major importance. 
That article goes on to say: 
Secretary McNamara then went on to say that the possibility of major ground action also led to a serious question of having to use nuclear weapons at some point'. 
Admiral Felt responded emphatically that 'it was essential that the commanders be given freedom to use these as had been assumed under various plans'. 
That information came from the secret documents of the Pentagon. This was a move by the United States war office to destroy the very fabric of the earth. Every member of this Parliament knows that China has now developed a nuclear bomb but that country does not have the skill to deliver it to a target more than 3,000 miles away. What a catastrophe it would have been for the world if the United States had gone ahead with its war hawk attitude of using nuclear weapons in Vietnam. 
The honourable member has a conscience, and my remarks have hurt him considerably because I have spoken the truth. In every man, even though he be evil to some degree, there is always some spark of decency. The honourable member for Mallee said that he had never heard any member of this Parliament come back from overseas and not praise the high standard of living of the Australian people. Later in his remarks he spoke about the plight of the rural people in Australia. He emphasised their plight On the one hand he praises the high standard of living of the Australian people while on the other hand he criticises it. 
Before I get on to my general remarks I want to make some reference to the new Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt).  I do not believe he will be a member of this House after the next federal election. Yesterday afternoon when I was sitting in my office doing some research work I heard, through the public address system, the Minister speaking in his Budget speech. He said, and this is recorded at page 1132 of Hansard: 
A Labor government would apply a means test- 
He was talking about the proposed 36c a lb guaranteed price for wool -  with every wool grower having to submit bis returns, his confidential records, to  the  official of some department or other to show  cause  that  he  was needy; going cap in hand as it were, pleading that he was a more needy bloke than his neighbour. 
What a shocking thing. The wool growers want hand-outs without any query. What about the poor old pensioners? They are required to state their assets to the Social Services Department. This is something which has been emphasised time and again in this House by the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly).  But no, says the Minister, we cannot do this to the wool growers; they should not have to show their records; they are confidential records. What impertinence it is for anyone to suggest that the wool growers should not have to show their records. It is my belief that every person in a responsible position - and the only man whom I have heard refer to this was the former honourable member for Scullin,  Mr Peters  - whether he toe a parliamentarian, a judge or some other person in a position of trust where he is susceptible to graft, should have to declare his assets to the nation. Every parliamentarian should have to declare his assets when he first comes into Parliament. Whenever he is called upon to declare his assets he should do so. Some shocking scandals would be revealed, particularly involving members of the Government, if that were made a legal requirement. 
The honourable member for Mallee spoke about the sale of wheat to China. Let me refer to the May issue of the Catholic Worker' which reads: 
As the world gets set for a rush on the China market, Australia looks like being left behind, which is about all she deserves. 
I will now refer to the 'Far Eastern Economic Review' which quotes the attitude of the new Australian Prime Minister,  Mr McMahon,  in relation to Australia's recognition of China. This is a conservative journal printed for businessmen in Hong Kong. The issue of 8th May 1971 says at page 4: 
Premier William McMahon said Peking must first meet certain obligations before Australia could extend diplomatic recognition to China: These include not trying to achieve political objectives by, force, not using insurgency and guerilla tactics in neighbouring countries, and letting those countries determine their own futures.  1 will bet that when Chou-en Lai read that, he said 'McMahon? Never heard of him.' What impertinence on the part of our Prime Minister, representing a country of 1  2i  million people, to speak in that way to a man representing a quarter of the world's population. What damned imperti nence. I think that the Australian Country Party has recognised its error. Only a short time ago the honourable member for Mallee said how proud he was to have  Mr Ian  Sinclair address 4 meetings in the electorate of Mallee. He has the jitters. It was a confession: 'I am in trouble. My people have woken up. They will not accept my integrity any more'. The honourable member will want the Minister in his electorate another 44 times to save his political life in Mallee.  His  people are not altogether dumb. They have accepted his integrity as I have done. For a long while I have regarded him as a man of integrity. I did not think I was easily deceived, particularly in view of my previous profession. But he deceived me. He, a man of integrity, needs the Minister for Primary Industry in his electorate. 
This Budget debate is drawing to a close. I am, as it were, the last bat  -  the last Opposition  speaker.  I intend to carry my bat. During this debate much ground has been traversed and trammelled. I agree entirely with much of what has been said and I support wholeheartedly the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  I believe our duty requires that what we see praiseworthy in others we should imitate carefully but what we see defective we should try to amend. This is the objective of a true Opposition in the parliamentary democracy in which we live. Labor's policy on wool subsidies is designed to aid the poor wool grower. Recently when I was in Brewarrina I discussed the wool problem with wool growers. They did not agree with the overall subsidy. They said that the wealthy wool grower, who did not need help, would benefit from it. This aspect has been effectively put to the Parliament by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  in recent debates. It is a pity that public money should be handled so recklessly by the Government. Expenditure of public money should be carefully scrutinised. One appreciates that the man on the land has made a great contribution to Australia's economy over the years. In the main primary producers are citizens of integrity. However it is true that if one examines annual reports of the Taxation Office it can be seen that many graziers default in compiling their taxation returns. 
They get their figures mixed up. Admittedly such graziers are in the minority. 
This Budget deserves the criticism that has been levelled against it by the Opposition and the Australian mass media. It is  designed  allegedly to reduce inflation. Public opinion and economic experts are of the positive opinion that the Budget will increase inflation and unemployment. The Prime Minister already has indicated - if one can accept with some degree of faith reports in the national newspapers - that a mini Budget probably will be brought down next February or March. 
1 would not believe in anything that this Government does. By sacking Ministers and Prime Ministers it has shown that h is unstable. Experience in the United Kingdom and the United States of America in recent years indicates that inflation and unemployment gallop along together. The United Kingdom Government took drastic steps some months ago to stimulate the economy after dampening it down. Its action was followed a few weeks later by the United States Government which took more drastic action - steps involving it in virtual blackmail of an international monetary nature to force the world to accept devaluation of the United States dollar. 
One feature of the Budget is the failure of the Prime Minister to carry out his promise, which has been referred to on numerous occasions by Opposition members, to review the plight of pensioners when he gave them a miserly 50c last February. He has failed to honour that promise and has lost the faith of the pensioner organisations throughout Australia. On 15th March, in his first speech to this House as Prime Minister, he said: 
We will follow this immediate increase in pension rates with a fundamental review of social services and related pensions. 
This review resulted in this Budget in a lousy $1.25 increase in the base age pension rate and $1 each for a married pensioner couple. These increases are an insult, in my view. They will not enable Our pensioners to catch up with rising costs of living since the last 50c increase. We have learned that between 150,000 and 170,000 pensioners who have small private incomes or small superannuation receipts will not get any increase at all. The increase from 50c to $1 for pharmaceutical prescriptions has been criticised severely by pensioner organisations.  Mrs Ellis,  who represents pensioners nationally, has expressed such criticism in documents which have been sent to all members of the Parliament. 
The increased petrol tax will yield $43 m to the Government. Its effect on costs in every section of industry will be ruinous and will have a detrimental effect on the economy. As 1 have said, the effects of the Budget will result in increased prices and unemployment will soar. The Leader of the Opposition has estimated that there will be 100,000 unemployed within the immediate future. I believe his estimate is conservative and that by March - and only time will tell - the figure will soar to 150,000 to 200,000, despite the manipulation of unemployment figures by certain Government departments. One thing of which I am fairly sure is that this is the last Budget of the Treasurer, the honourable member for Bruce  (Mr Snedden).  He will not survive as the late  Mr Harold  Holt did because of the stranglehold that  Sir Robert  Menzies had on the Liberal Party machine. 
The Budget fails to meet the critical situation existing in our education system in public and private schools. Teachers are leaving the profession faster than they can be recruited. I venture to suggest that this situation has never arisen before in Austtalia. Evidence given to a 5-man Senate committee of inquiry on education reveals, amongst other things, that 9,000 to 12,000 new teachers are available each year but that the resignation rate from within the ranks of practising teachers alone is between 14,000 and 19,000 annually.  Mr Hughes  stated this in sworn evidence before that Senate committee. There was evidence of a substantial wastage of potential teachers during training. The committee was told also that the New South Wales Government has recently set up a committee to investigate the high teacher wastage rate in that State. In Australian schools there are about 115.000 teachers and there are 35,000 students in training undertaking courses of from 2 to 4 years. In the main, teachers are leaving the profession because of the inducement of higher salaries in other professions and because promotion by seniority is something with which many are disgruntled. Teachers are being recruited from abroad. This is an indictment of the national Government. In my view married women teachers should be given special treatment to encourage them to remain in the profession. They should be provided with kindergartens for their children and domestic assistance in the home rather than that their talents should be lost. To me it is somewhat ridiculous that the Government should subsidise the training of teachers and that after 2 years or 3 years teaching their teaching talents are lost to the education system when they marry. The Government should take some action in this regard. 
The private school system is in a similar chaotic state. I have here a letter signed by E. T. Carroll who is the secretary of the Federal Catholic Schools' Committee of 175 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. It is accompanied by a statement from Roman Catholic bishops. These documents point out the plight of Roman Catholic schools. The statement by the Roman Catholic bishops says, in part: 
The Bishops are deeply concerned at the increasing financial burdens . . . 
If time were available to do so, I would have liked to relate to the Parliament the criticism by certain Roman Catholic educationists in relation to persevering with the Roman Catholic education system. Father Kung has been outspoken on this subject. Time will not permit me to refer to an article by Father Kung that I have here. I hope that at a later stage in the debate on this Bill I will be able to impart to the Parliament all of this information including, for the benefit of the parliamentary records, the criticism by Roman Catholics themselves of their perseverance with their private school system, particularly in the primary sector. This criticism shows that this perseverance is not justified. The continuation of this system cannot be justified. I believe that the Parliament should know these things. Time will not permit me to refer to all of these documents which I consider should be read by honourable members. I support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr Whitlam's amendment)  stand part of the question. 
It is somewhat of an honour for me to be given the opportunity to follow a former AttorneyGeneral and a man who is sometimes referred to as the leading Queen's Counsel of the New South Wales Bar. Most Q.C.'s I have known have had enough astuteness to keep out of an argument which is indefensible. The Government's argument on this matter now before the Parliament - the National Service Bill - is indefensible and I hope to justify the Opposition's actions towards the present legislation. I want as briefly as possible to make some reference to the remarks of previous Government speakers. The honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Hughes)  is referred to by honourable member's on this side of the House as the batsman from Berowra. We all recall that he marched into his palatial garden at Bellevue Hill and swung a cricket bat at some demonstrators. He prosecuted them in Paddington Court and they were all acquitted. He was prosecuted himself and got the mercy of the Court and the case against him for assault was not proved. 
Yes. He spoke too of Vietnam. It is true that anyone who debates Vietnam gets emotionally upset. I do myself. It. is very difficult to restrain one's emotions when one's fellow men and pregnant women are being stabbed and massacred, as was reluctantly shown by newspapers in the early stages of the Vietnam war. There were the shocking atrocities at My Lai and Hue. These incidents should touch the conscience of every man interested in public or national affairs in any nation. I say sincerely that the Government is ashamed of its conscription laws. It is ashamed of conscription and is trying gracefully to climb out of it. I suppose one can forgive the Government for trying. The great white father, Menzies, Ming the Merciless, in 1964 introduced conscription into this Parliament. He first of all sent 36 Army instructors to Vietnam. Army instructors they were supposed to be. When vigorously challenged by the then honourable member for Yarra, Menzies, our former Prime Minister, said it was only 36 Army instructors. Then we saw the number grow to 1 0,000. 
At about this time a very forthright senator in the United States, Wayne Morse, said that the American Government would regret its decision to involve itself in a land war in Asia. He said that when the bodies started to come back to San Francisco the American people would say: 'Why did we get involved in this land war in Asia?' I believe that Wayne Morse lost his seat in the Senate because he spoke ahead of public opinion, as the Australian Labor Party did in 1964. Gallup polls today show that the Australian people are opposed to our involvement in Vietnam and that it is only the war hawks who are in favour of it. It is to the shame and disgust of Australia that about 40 per cent of the Australian people, as shown in the gallup polls, support our involvement in Vietnam. 
The honourable member for Berowra theo said - and I commend him for his frankness but not his his insincerity - 'I have always expressed strong views in favour of Vietnam'. Everlasting shame on him. Where he stood on this question will be written in the history books of this nation for future generations to read, although I believe that when that happens probably the honourable member will be living on an isolated island with the wealth which he has accumulated from his legal practice and from being a Minister. Then the honourable member for Berowra omitted to refer to what Menzies, a former Prime Minister of this country, said in 1941. If I may interrupt myself at this point, I understand - and I am not disclosing any confidence - that the only thing that the former Prime Minister. Menzies was ever worried about was what history would write against him when he left this Parliament. What history will say about that man will be something that probably he will not be able to read. 

 Mr Menzies, as he then was, once stated that he would not allow the Japanese to invade Thailand, but 2 months later the Japanese invaded Thailand. How impertinent it was for  Mr Menzies  to say that he would not allow the Japanese to invade Thailand. The honourable member for Berowra, the former Attorney-General, said that Labor could not impose better conditions of service and rates of pay. There is one thing that we would not impose, and that is conscription in a period of peace. I was amused at the remark of the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  who referred to the monarchy. I am not anti-monarchy, but an interesting article in the 'New Statesman' referred to the House of Commons and said that when the garbos went on strike in London the streets were full of garbage and the garbos were holding the country to ransom. At the same time 
Queen Elizabeth applied for an increase in salary and the House of Commons announced that it had received a most gracious message from Her Majesty. When a common man seeks an increase he is said to be holding the country to ransom, but when the hierarchy or the establishment seeks an increase it is said that a most gracious message is received. 
Then the honourable member for Berowra said: 'No Government will ignore the advice of its military advisers.' Fancy a former Attorney-General and a leading Queen's Counsel saying in this national Parliament - I thought he might say a thing like that in the gentlemen's toilet - that 'no government will ignore the advice of its military advisers'.  Mr Gorton,  when he was Prime Minister, said: 'We cannot withdraw one battalion unless we withdraw three.'. Yet we find that the military has withdrawn one battalion.  Major Young,  who is now in civilian life, said that this was a grievous error. Now that one battalion has been withdrawn we find the unusual massacre of Australian conscripts, in the main. The honourable member for Berowra also said that he welcomes the withdrawal of Australian troops because they will be made available for employment in the national interest. The honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Birrell)  has told me that 240 retrenchments have been made in a motor car works in South Australia and that among these retrenchments there are former national servicemen. How can one reconcile these two statements? I would sooner place faith in the integrity of the honourable member for Port Adelaide than I would in the integrity of the honourable member for Berowra. 
The Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  referred to the fact that the United Kingdom and Canada have no national service. That is to their great credit. This House has not yet been informed of the fact that during the long war in which the French Government was involved in Indo-China, never did the French Government see fit to introduce conscription, and it did not do so for two reasons. The Government did not think that it was justified and it believed that the French people would not support conscription for the colonies of 
Laos, Cambodia and Vietnam. France is a country which is more experienced in world affairs and world wars than Australia is. But the Australian Government saw fit to introduce conscription for a civil war in Vietnam. This Bill is designed to prolong the evils of conscription and, in my opinion, conscription is slavery. If the Australian people choose some of their fellow men and force them to become soldiers, then it does not matter whether this system is supported by a majority or a minority of the people. The plain fact is that conscripted soldiers are the slaves of the rest of the society, and therefore conscription is grossly and morally wrong. 
The Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  in his second reading speech said: 
National Service has been and continues to be a significant element of the effort expended to ensure the maintenance of an effective defence capability in this country. Adopted at the end of 1964, its immediate purpose was to increase within an acceptable time span the essential strength of our Army from its then low level of 23,000 men to a level that would be adequate to allow the Army to fulfil its role in national defence. 
It would have been more correct if the Minister had substituted for the words 'to fulfil its role in national defence' the words to fulfil its role in nationalistic offence'. The Vietnamese people have nothing against us, but we are forced by this Government through this tyrannical legislation, to go to Vietnam and to kill married and single people who are fighting for a better way of life in their own country. It is to the utter disgrace and shame forever of every member of the Government who supported this legislation which provides for conscription for Vietnam. In my view, the proper title for the Bill should not be conscription law; it should be Lynch law. The Minister for Labour and National Service who is at the table has marked himself down as Australia's No. 1 gaoler. He is the man who turns the key. With a smile on his face he strikes you down like a taipan. I would never trust him. The Minister has proclaimed himself to be the national gaoler of men who love freedom. The Government does not want men to have the freedom that they demand. It is not the Government's place to give people freedom; it has to guarantee that the people can retain their freedom. But this 
Government is concerned with protecting the money power in this nation - big business, the crooked stock exchange manipulations and share dealings and the fringe banking institutions which charge young home seekers exorbitant rates of interest. The H. G. Palmer and the Latec rackets were not given much prominence in the Press. 
As the honourable member said, outside of that they are all right. The Government is led by a Prime Minister who governs the country in consultation with and for the benefit of the captains of industry. 
And the likes of  Sir Frank  Packer, as the honourable member for Prospect reminds me. Conscription demoralises. The United States Army has been demoralised. Never again will the United States fight in foreign wars, despite ANZUS, because under the ANZUS treaty a resolution has to go through Congress - which includes the United States Senate. Let it become true in the minds of the people that, as the Chinese have said and as I say with great reluctance, the United States has become a paper tiger. It could never fight another war outside its own country because conscription is conscripting the wrong people. This is what has happened in Australia. It is a pragmatic argument against conscription that, if morally right, conscription does not work in practice. I shall have to omit part of the remarks that I would like to hare made in this debate because time will not permit me to make them. Who do individual members of the Government Parties think they are to fiddle with other people's lives? That is the issue and honourable members opposite know it. The issue is not the length of the period of enslavement. Naturally enough the Minister for Labour and National Service in his second reading speech was on the defensive. In a speech on a Bill which proposes to reduce the period of time of conscription he was continually defending the need for conscription. He said: 
National service cannot be discontinued because we are withdrawing from Vietnam. It is vital thai it be maintained. 
Later he said: 
In summary, in the present Australian context national service is an indispensable factor in maintaining the Australian Army at a size adequate for our defence obligations. 
He was on the defensive again. How typical. If a man has to introduce a little bit of human kindness he must say 'Sorry'. I would have admired him more if he had said to the Government: 'I am not going  deliver this rubbish. Get another Minister to do it. I am not going to peddle your rot any longer.' I nearly said something else. Later in his second reading speech the Minister said: 
Nevertheless national service must be retained. The present Bill gives effect to his logic. 
He meant that national service must be reduced by 6 months. But he was defending the very existence of the national service scheme, and the Bill defends its existence. The sad and tragic thing about conscription to Vietnam from the American point of view and from the Australian point of view is revealed in the 'Far Eastern Economic Review' which is available to all honourable members in the Parliamentary Library. The article says: 
No-one knows exactly how many addicts have returned to the US from Vietnam, but the number is enormous. Some US experts say 40,000. One survey indicates 2,400 of the 15,000 Vietnam veterans released every month into civilian life are addicts. 
No honourable member can laugh at that. The article continues: 
About half as many have tried drugs and managed to break the habit before coming home. Of the 230,000 Americans still in Vietnam, it is estimated that 30,000-60,000 have turned on to smack' or 'skag', both 95 per cent pure heroin. 
The members of the Government ask us to divorce ourselves from emotions in a debate of this kind. Our wives go through childbirth and then at 20 years of age our sons are called up. There is the strong possibility of their coming home from Vietnam as heroin addicts. So far our Press has not published any figures showing how many Australian boys have come back addicts. This article goes on to say that it costs them $3 a week in Vietnam to buy adequate supplies of drugs but when they return home it costs them $100 a week, and they have to commit robberies to get the necessary drugs. 
When I came into this Parliament I vowed and declared one thing: As I see it, there are 2 great powers. There is the power of people's hearts and minds and there is the power of money. I will always come down on the side of the power of people's hearts and minds rather than the power of money. It is a filthy war. Conscription is filthy. This Government for ever and ever should be utterly ashamed of the legislation that has now been put before this Parliament. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. I ask: In the light of the inspired revelations published this morning concerning his correspondence with  President  Nixon, will the right honourable gentleman now at least send to  Mr Kosygin  the letter which was drafted personally by him on 20th and 21st July inviting the Premier of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics to visit Australia? 
My contribution to this debate is to indicate support for the amendment moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  and to place on the record of the Parliament some of the nauseating features that lead me to be vigorously opposed to conscription. Any tendency I once may have had to support national service I can assure the House I have entirely abandoned because of the manner in which tha Government has used national service trainees in this barbaric war in South East Asia. The honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  suggests that often men of lower education make the best soldiers. He is probably right. They are usually the sons of workers whose parents could not afford a better schooling for them. The sons of the privileged classes usually have a better schooling than the sons of workers and, of course, sometimes with better schooling comes a greater degree of selfishness. A person with a better schooling often concentrates on his own enrichment. He becomes more cunning and selfish and is prepared to let someone with less nous do the dirty work for him, whether it is a fight in the street or a fight in another country. I think this could be proven to be the case in most countries. 
If a true analysis were made we would find that in America and in Australia it is the sons of the poorer section of the community, the lower income groups, who have been predominant in the national seh vice call-up and have served in Vietnam. In my own electorate I know that several boys went to Vietnam and  2  were killed. They did not go there through any feeling of patriotism. They said that they might as well go and do their  2  years and at least they would get the benefit of the provisions of the war service homes legislation. They could not afford a home due to the rising costs of land and houses so they went to Vietnam against their better judgment and never returned. Of course, this could not happen to the children of the wealthy because they usually get a block of land or a home given to them by the bridegroom's or the bride's parents; we know that this so often happens. The honourable member for Mallee made reference to people who have said to him: 'Yes, my son is a better man as a result of having to do national service and serve in the Army'. That may have been so in olden times but times have changed now. 
Let me explain what appalls me about the United States involvement. I do not think it has been fully placed on the record of the Parliament for those who study Hansard. I hope that this information will prove beneficial to some of the avid Hansard readers throughout Australia and the world. The great tragedy of this war in Asia and particularly its effect on the American conscripts or permanent soldiers is the increase in drug addiction.  President  Nixon has had to appropriate through Congress some extra millions of dollars to fight the increase in drug addiction as a result of United States servicemen returning home hopeless heroin, cocaine and morphine addicts. One in 10, I am reminded by the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi),  is an addict. The American Government is now confessing to the fact that drug addiction is taking a greater toll of its servicemen than the Vietnamese. This is a shocking indictment of any country's involvement in the civil war in Asia. There is an article in the 'Far Eastern Economic Review', to which I often refer in the Parliament. It says: 
Heroin addition among American soldiers in Vietnam has finally prompted White House orders for United States missions in Southeast Asia' to crack down on drug traffic. But these new efforts to curb the clandestine trade in drugs are not America's first incursion into the murky area of Southeast Asia's most secret and profitable business enterprise. 
The article goes on to point out that one of South Vietnam's most prominent politicians was strongly suspected of flying illicit drugs from Laos to Saigon for drug trafficking. He was none other than the person this Government hosted 3 or 4 years ago, Nguyen Cao Ky. The right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell),  whom I was very pleased to support, addressed under the Sydney Harbour Bridge one of the biggest demonstrations that has ever been held in Australia against our involvement in Vietnam and the visit of Ky to Australia. 
I do not think so but Arthur Calwell addressed this great multitude of people who protested against the Government's having invited Ky to Australia. How right those protests were when now we learn there is strong evidence that this man Ky, who was hosted by the Government was playing a leading role in drug trafficking in South East Asia. That alone, hosting a man of Ky's  type, should make honourable members opposite hide their heads in shame forever. I pointed out in my remarks last night that these addicts from the United States Army find when they return to the United States that, whilst satisfying, their drug needs in South Vietnam cost $6 a day, to get the same  quantity of drugs in America costs SI 00 a day and they have to commit serious crime to get the necessary funds to continue their addiction, an addiction that they did not seek, an addiction that they and their parents did not want but an addiction that was imposed upon them by a warmongering government in the United States and its conscription laws. Young boys' lives have been ruined and every honourable member knows how difficult it is to recover a confirmed drug addict. The members of this Parliament who have a medical background would be no doubt aware that a person can serve 2 years in gaol during which time he is cut off altogether from drugs and within a fortnight of his release resumes his addiction. I know from practical experience of this happening. 
No articles have appeared in the Press so far about Australian conscripts becom- ing drug addicts in Vietnam. But I think any person who presumed that not one single Australian serviceman has returned from Vietnam a drug addict is hiding his head in the sand. This must have happened. I would like to think I was wrong. The Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch),  who is at the table, must have had cases of this kind brought to his attention when he was Minister for the Army. The Government could be aware Of this fact from letters that have been written by parents claiming that their sons h.ave become drug addicts. I believe that the Minister for Labour and National Service, who still has some decency in him, will comment on my remarks when he has an opportunity to do so. I ask him to state whether he knows of any Australian servicemen who have become drug addicts as a result of being conscripted to service in Vietnam. I conclude by saying that I wholeheartedly support the amendment which has been moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. I hope that some supporters of the Government will have sufficient moral courage to support it 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr  Hallett)  - Order! The' honourable member's time has expired. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  - Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 

 Mr TURNBULL (Mallee) - I claim to have been misrepresented by the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James).  I do not believe that the honourable member for Hunter misrepresented me knowingly, but he did do so. I have written down what he said. The honourable member said that even the honourable member for Mallee admitted that the least educated man makes the best soldier. It was the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope)  who said that. I said the very opposite. Honour-  apic juL.rfiLH.13 Wm  recall  ana t:ans:ra win  record that this is so. I said: 'You cannot divide the fighting qualities of the men of the AIF into the highly educated or the poorly educated. They were all out to do the best for Australia'. Those were my words. I am sure the honourable member for Hunter did not knowingly misrepresent me. 

 Mr JAMES (Hunter) - I wish to make a personal explanation,  Mr Deputy Chairman.  I accept what the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  has just said. 1 was listening to his speech on the intercom in my room and reading at the same time. I believed he said what I quoted him as saying, but I accept his explanation. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of 10 electors of die Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth - 
that the United Nations General Assembly Resolution 2063 XXIV A (December 1969) declares that the Geneva Protocol of 1925, which Australia has ratified, prohibits the use in international armed conflict of any chemical agents of warfare - chemical substances whether gaseous, liquid or solidemployed for their direct toxic effects on man, animals or plants; 
that the World Health Organisation Report (January 1970) confirms the above definition of chemical agents of warfare; 
that the Australian Government does not accept this definition, but holds that the Geneva Protocol does not prevent the use in war of certain toxic chemical substances in the form of herbicides, defoliants and 'riotcontrol' agents 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray - 
that the Parliament take note of the consensus of international political, scientific and humanitarian opinion; and 
that honourable members urge upon the Government the desirability of revising its interpretation of the Geneva Protocol, and declaring that it regards all chemical substances employed for their toxic effects on man. animals or plants as being included in the prohibitions laid down by that Protocol. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I take the opportunity to make a submission in this debate. I have listened with interest to the submissions made. There is one matter which concerns me and which has concerned me on the several visits I have made to New Guinea. I do not think it has been raised in this debate. It is that, although we gave the natives in New Guinea drinking rights - which I think all members of the House favour - we have overlooked the fact that in New Guinea, if not now then in the years ahead, there will be a high incidence of alcoholism, as we know exists in the European countries, and no provision is being made to create a fund by which to give treatment to the alcoholics in New Guinea when such a situation arises. 
I also want to make some reference to the South Pacific Commission, which was mentioned by the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  a short time ago. Members of this Parliament and Australians generally are proud of the fact that Australia is the largest contributor to the South Pacific Commission. I believe that an argument probably exists for giving more to the South Pacific Commission. Recently I had the pleasant experience of visiting some of the countries of the South Pacific Commission as a member of a delegation led by the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Barnes),  who is at the table. It was quite educational and beneficial to me and I believe the other members of the delegation, in every way. 
As a result of contributing to the South Pacific Commission, we also contribute to the University of the South Pacific in Fiji. I want to bring to the notice of the House what I consider to be a grave injustice perpetrated by that University on a former resident of Canberra. This man is a native of Fiji. His name is James M. Anthony. For some considerable time he was a resident of 4 Raymond Street, Ainslie. He was attending the Australian National University on a scholarship. Time will not permit me to read the whole of the contents of the correspondence, which he has authorised me to use. But, for the purpose of my submission, I quote this statement from the third paragraph of his letter: 
The taxpayers of Australia alone have contributed something in the vicinity of $20,000 to my higher education. You can see very, very clearly that the Appointments Committee of the Council of the University of the South Pacific had decided not to offer me an appointment (letter dated 17 November, 1970 - enclosed). You can see also from correspondence which is enclosed that when I asked for reasons for the Appointments Committee's decision the Vice-chancellor himself refused to disclose them. 
In another paragraph  Mr Anthony  states: 
I am reliably informed and am now satisfied after a personal discussion with the Vice-chancellor at the University of the South Pacific that the  reasons for the Appointments Committee's decision were based on political considerations. I am also convinced after making extensive inquiries that the Vice-chancellor himself directed that I be refused employment at the University. I believe that I am being victimised because of my political beliefs and my past association with the trade union movement in Fiji. 
A number of members of this Parliament have met  Mr Anthony.  He is a native Fijian and an outstanding Fijian scholar.  His  list of qualifications is very lengthy. He won a scholarship to study at the University of Hawaii. I have had the pleasure of being in the home of his parents in Fiji. He is the eldest of 12 children. When he attained all these qualifications after years of study he applied for a position at the University of the South Pacific in his native land of Fiji, but his application was rejected. He has suggested in his letter, and I agree, that he was victimised because as a young boy he took an active interest in the trade union movement in Fiji. He led what is known in Fiji as a gentleman's strike, as a result of which the wages of the workers in Fiji were lifted from approximately $3 to $7 a week. 

 Mr James Michael Anthony was born on 6th March 1935. He is married with 4 children. He has British citizenship. He gained a Bachelor of Arts degree, with honours in political science, at the University of Hawaii in 1964 and a Master of Arts degree in political science at the University of Hawaii in 1966. At the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, in the summer session of 1965 he attended the Inter-University Consortium for Political Research. He was awarded a research scholarship for a doctorate of philosophy at the Australian National University in July 1967, and gained that doctorate early this year.  His  list of qualifications covers one and a half pages of foolscap paper. At a time when the Fijian Government is constantly asking the Australian Government for additional finance to overcome its economic problems and when its own university, the University of the South Pacific, victimises one of its own nationals in the manner described in the correspondence which I am prepared to show to any honourable member, I think that we have to have another look at the position. If we are going to subsidise a government and a university which defeat by victimisation the very purpose for which their nationals travel to friendly countries such as Australia, the State of Hawaii and the United States mainland in order to achieve high academic qualifications to enable them to take up positions at the university in the country in which they were reared, I believe that our Government should use its good offices to see that these sorts of things are not repeated. I do not believe that Government supporters or any decent Australian would condone the treatment that has been meted out to this brilliant scholar - this mao Anthony from Fiji.  Mr Anthony  wrote to the Vice-Chancellor of the University of the South Pacific,  Dr Aikman,  and asked him to state the names of the members of the committee that decided to reject his application for employment, the time of the meeting and who was present.  Dr Aikman  refused to give him the information. 
I believe that  Dr Aikman  acted very shabbily to a national of Fiji who had high qualifications to fill the position that became vacant at that important University which we visited with the Minister. In fact, I raised the matter in the presence of the Minister at the University in Fiji when we were on this study tour of external territories with the Minister during the recent recess. I hope that my remarks tonight at least will prevent a repetition of this sort of injustice happening to nationals of the south Pacific islands when they come here and do extensive studies at the cost of the Australian taxpayers. 
I hope my contribution to this debate will be worth while. I endorse the remarks of the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr 
Klugman) about the infant mortality rate in the Northern Territory. The Public Works Committee, on which I serve, visits the Northern Territory frequently. I think the credit for exposing this infant mortality rate must go principally to the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  who, by cross-examination of several witnesses at a Public Works Committee inquiry in Alice Springs, elicited this information for public knowledge for the first time. That showed the shocking infant mortality rate at Alice Springs and what was occurring at the Alice Springs hospital. The Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  is undoubtedly aware of the expensive and justifiable alterations that are about to be made to the Alice Springs hospital. These are being made because the increasing infant mortality rate was chiefly attributable to overcrowding and cross-infection in the children's ward at the hospital. 
My principal submission in this debate concerns the Minister's responsibility to administer the Australian Capital Territory Police Force. I believe, as I think every honourable member does, that it is the duty of every country which exchanges diplomatic relations with other countries to give full protection to the embassies and the embassy staff of those countries. Twice daily when Parliament is sitting I pass the Embassy of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. I understand that the Minister is responsible for 2 police officers being stationed outside that embassy for 24 hours a day 7 days a week. I am not suggesting that those guards should be withdrawn, but I am suggesting that they should be provided with some comfort during the cold winter nights. As we know, the night temperature in Canberra drops to 16 or 18 degrees. The 2 police officers still have to perform their duties diligently because they would virtually suffer dismissal if another bombing attack occurred on the Soviet Embassy when they were on duty and the perpetrators escaped. The reputations and the jobs of the police officers are in jeopardy. Whilst to a bystander this might look like a simple job, for those young constables it is a job that carries a heavy responsibility, especially should anything happen and the evil-doers get away. 
I do not know whether the Minister has any alternatives in mind or whether the Commissioner of Police has suggested any to him as to how long this protection of foreign embassies is to continue. I believe that the Soviet Embassy was bombed on 4 or 5 occasions. I say this in all seriousness: It is to the everlasting disgrace of our judicial system that the perpetrators of this bombing of the Embassy on the last occasion were given a minor sentence of 18 months gaol. A first offender, commonly referred to as a clean skin, usually receives 3 months remission of a 12 month sentence. Then he invariably receives a good conduct remission on top of that, and an early parole period. So I venture to say that these 2 young hooligans who had motored across from Western Australia will probably be released from gaol after 8 to 10 months. If ever an insult was thrown in the face of a major world power it was thrown by our judicial system here in Canberra. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Hallett)  - Order! There is no substance in the point of order. 
I have not mentioned any member of the judiciary by name. I will use the term 'penal system' if that will save embarrassment to anyone. Apparently, my remarks are stinging the honourable member. If a bomb was thrown into Kings Hall and extensive damage was done to this building would honourable members think that an 18 months gaol sentence, the same as that which was imposed on these 2 hooligans who threw the bomb into the Soviet Embassy, would be an appropriate penalty? lt should be within the knowledge of every responsible citizen that a gaol sentence is imposed for 3 principal reasons: Firstly, for the punishment of the individual for the seriousness of his crime; secondly, to protect society against him, and thirdly, and equally as important as the other 2 reasons, as a deterrent to others. A judge usually asks the responsible police officer before sentencing any person: 'Is this crime prevalent?' If it is prevalent the penalty imposed is usually more severe. I ask: Was this crime perpetrated against the Soviet Embassy prevalent? It was approxi mately the fourth occasion on which a bomb had been thrown over the fence. I think the sentence was a disgraceful insult by this nation to the Soviet Government. What would we think if a bomb was thrown into the front of the Australian Embassy in Moscow? What would we hope that the perpetrator's sentence would be? I think that every fair minded Australian would say that it should not be less than 5 years, probably with a parole period of 3 years. Many of the police officers in Canberra were disappointed when they learned of the gaol sentences imposed on these 2 Western Australians who, prior to going to gaol after they were sentenced, stated that when they are released they intend to do it again. I believe that the Minister should use his good offices to prevent this sort of thing happening to the Soviet Embassy or any other foreign embassy in this country. Persons convicted of a similar crime should be punished with the utmost vigour of the law. I hope that the Minister will use his position as Minister for the Interior to bring about the installation of pill boxes to give greater comfort to police officers when they are performing this responsible and arduous guard duty outside the Soviet Embassy in Canberra. 
In view of the fact that the Minister for National Development (Mt Swartz) desires to terminate this debate shortly I will endeavour to curtail my remarks on the estimates for the Department of National Development. I am terribly disappointed as the Federal member for the electorate of Hunter that the Government has not yet seen fit to implement some of the Hunter Valley research foundation schemes for the conservation of water in the rich Hunter Valley. I also want to re-emphasise the attitude of the Australian Labor Party towards this foreign company known as Clutha Development Pty Ltd. Great indignation has been aroused among people throughout Australia by the special privileges given to this company in the legislation passed by the New South Wales Liberal Government, with which the Commonwealth Government acted in concert, because the Commonwealth Government has power to control the granting of export licences for minerals and other commodities. 
I want to point out as quickly as possible, having promised the Minister that 1 would not exhaust my full 10 minutes in this debate, that over a period of 20 years the New South Wales State Government will receive from the Clutha company, which has aroused so much indignation in all decent thinking Australians, an amount: of $100m in royalties for the coal exported by the company when it is in full operation at the shipping port of Wollongong, should the present intended plan of Clutha come to fruition. On present overseas prices for Australian coal Clutha will receive $ 1,800m for its exports. Clutha will profit by $3,200m from the sale of Australian coal over a period of 20 years. In the next 20 years the price of coal could quadruple. From the sale of coal Clutha . Will increase its profit - it is expected that its profits will rise - to $12,800m. That is a fair bit of money, but the New South Wales Government, having agreed to the plan with Clutha will not receive any more than the original figure of $100m in royalties. The principal owner of this company is  Mr Daniel  Ludwig, one of the world's richest men. He owns Universe Tankships Inc. The Australian subsidiary of that company is Woolclift which has 15 smaller companies in Australia in coal and shipping. I have noted that Clutha is at present retrenching men from one of its coal mines in central Queensland. 
One of the privileges granted to Clutha under the New South Wales State legislation is the removal of any obligation on that company under the Local Government Act, the Mining Act and the Stamp Duties Act. Is it any wonder, even with all the loyalty they owe to the Liberal Party, two devout Liberal people have spoken out against Clutha? 1 refer to none other than the Chief Justice of Australia,  Sir Garfield  Barwick, who has expressed indignation at the favouritism given to this foreign company and that admirable and former honourable member for Warringah,  Mr Ted  St John, who also, has expressed publicly great indignation in the daily Press over this favouritism to Clutha Development. 
And every State department, as . I am reminded by the honourable member for Hughes. These include the New South Wales Railways Department, the Metropolitan Water, Sewerage and Drainage Board and the Maritime Services Board. They have opposed the planned construction of a private railway which is to cut across property from the Bur.ragarang Valley to Coalcliff where a gigantic coal-loading wharf is to extend half a mile out into the sea and destroy the ecology of the beautiful environment in the Wollongong-Coalcliff area. This is one of the greatest scandals that any government has ever imposed upon the Australian people. The protest is reaching such momentum that the recent Wollongong local government election was fought between the pro-Clutha and anti-Clutha factions. The anti-Clutha people swept the polls at Wollongong. The people of Wollongong, particularly the working class, are determined to see that this favouritism, initiated by the New South Wales Liberal Government, will not reach fruition. There will be a work embargo should the New South Wales Government try to implement this Clutha scheme because the people in this region are determined that their environment will not be destroyed. They are determined that this beautiful district will not be desecrated and mutilated by the power of money or favouritism through the action of the Liberal-Country Party Government in New South Wales. 
Wollongong has only about 30 years supply of coking coal left, and here we are selling it overseas: Future generations will wonder what type of people we were. In conclusion I want to refer to a matter which I believe is applicable to this debate and is connected with the deplorable favouritism the New South Wales Liberal Government has dished out, if I may use that term, to this foreign company. Many years ago a great Australian and a great Labor man wrote a poem called 'A Word From Texas Jack'. The poet was Henry Lawson. In that poem he was referring to foreign investment and how it comes into a country and, if it may use the vernacular, virtually reefs the economic guts out of it, leaving its people impoverished. Apparently Henry Lawson was aware of the facts. I quote his poem with modifications in several places. In referring to overseas investment in other countries he said: 
But when they're gone, as we are not, 
We find that when they go 
They've left behind no  learnin 
But carted off our dough. 
The Parliament has resumed the debate on the appropriation for the Department of Foreign Affairs. The Bill provides for a total expenditure of $89,913,000 in this Department for the year 1971- 72. This is an increase of $8.5m on the expenditure for 1970-71. I would have been happier if more earnest consideration had been given to the distribution of more financial aid to the nations or islands of the South Pacific Commission. On a recent visit to that region by a parliamentary delegation led by the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Barnes),  I was able to study the problems of the countries of the South Pacific region that were visited. I believe it is true to say that countries such as the New Hebrides, Western Samoa, Tonga and Fiji have a deep affection for Australia and the Australian people. Members of the delegation were in a position to observe that these countries are in need of further Australian economic help but due, I suppose, to the mythical propaganda of the threat from regions to our north, we give priority to them. 
The islands of Western Samoa and Tonga could be regarded as being overcrowded. Tongans have difficulty in migrating anywhere because they belong to a kingdom. Western Samoans with work permits have immigration privileges to and from New Zealand because Western Samoa formerly was administered by New Zealand. The indigenes of the island of United States Western Samoa have full United States citizenship, but the poor Tongans cannot readily migrate elsewhere because, as I mentioned, Tonga is a kingdom. I think we should examine their problem in this regard. Whilst in Fiji the parliamentary delegation visited the South Pacific University where I spoke to the Vice-Chancellor,  Dr Aitken,  about appointments of staff to that university. I found that a Tongan with lesser qualifications than a native born Fijian had been appointed to the staff. In my view, the Fijian had much higher qualifications for the position. I refer to  Dr James  Anthony, who recently qualified with a Ph.D. at the Australian National University and who has degrees from the University of Hawaii and a university in the United States. I believe  Dr Anthony  was victimised because he took a prominent part in a strike in Fiji about 12 or more years ago and for this reason he was not successful in receiving the appointment for which he applied. In the strike in which he played a prominent part as a young man of about 23 years of age, he was instrumental in having the wages of the Fijian workers raised by about $3 or $4 a week. As I mentioned,  Dr Anthony  was educated at the Australian National University to a Ph.D. degree and his scholarship cost the Australian taxpayers in the vicinity of $12,000 or more. I understand that the sole purpose of Australian aid in this regard is to equip scholars from our neighbouring countries with higher qualifications so that they can return to their countries and aid their own governments' educational programmes in their native lands which, unfortunately, are lacking in educational facilities.  Dr Anthony  has since been appointed to the staff of the University of Hawaii. 
It is noticeable in this debate how Government supporters have refrained from mentioning the tragic situation which now exists in East Pakistan - a Commonwealth country. I am deeply grateful for the concern which has been shown by many of my constituents in the Cessnock region who have written to me pointing out the plight of these unfortunates who have had to flee their native land into India. This has placed a crushing economic burden on the Government of India which must almost have reached saturation point. The political party which advocated independence for East Pakistan and which the refugees supported swept the polls at recent elections, capturing 167 seats out of 169. However, the military regime will not allow the wishes of the people to be implemented. Because, in the main, of the maltreatment of the people by the military regime which controls East Pakistan and which will not give them their independence, almost 10 million refugees have fled from East Pakistan to India and the Indian Government has been burdened with a cost of almost $A3m a day to house, feed and provide for these unfortunate people. When one considers that Australia's aid contribution is a mere $5. 5m, one must regard that as mean, lousy and shabby. We are spending $300m on the Fill aircraft and there are still doubts about its safety. 
I now want to say something about the foreign or United States bases in Australia. I want to place on the records of the Parliament some of the facts disclosed in a booklet which was sent to me by an organisation in South Australia. It begins as follows: 
Who owns the bases? 
Who pays for them? 
What arc they for? 
Why are they shrouded in secrecy? 
Do they make Australia more secure? 
Do they make Australia a nuclear target? 
Are they related to a sound foreign policy? 
Is there an alternative to such bases? 
I do not think it would have been the honourable member because he does not believe in truth, frankness or forthrightness. Further on the booklet states: 
The most consistently expressed objection to the bases is that they make Australia a nuclear target. Creighton Burns has described Woomera as a potential nuclear target in the event of a nuclear war. Robert Cooksey and Des Ball claim that in a global nuclear war Pine Gap would be a priority target, and that there are other situations falling short of global nuclear war, in which it might be attacked. 
I commend the document to honourable members. 
If the honourable member is sincere in his request and calls at my office at the termination of my speech I will see that he is given a copy immediately. This country is urgently in need of men, and I think that the following poem could be applied to the present situation and leaders of the nation: 
God give us men! A time like this demands 
Strong wills, clear heads, true hearts, and ready hands; 
Men whom the lust of office does not kill; 
Men whom the spoils of office cannot buy; 
Men who possess opinions, and a will; 
Men who have honour; men who will not lie, 
For while the rabble, with their narrow creeds, 
Their large professions, and their little deeds, 
Wrangle in selfish strife, Lo! Freedom sleeps, 
Wrong rules the land, and waiting Justice weeps. 
I am sorry to detain the House at such a late hour. I was desirous of speaking this afternoon on the estimates for the AttorneyGeneral's Department, but due to the restriction on the number of speakers I willingly stood down - I had no other alternative - and I decided that I would make my submission during the adjournment debate tonight. Before directing my principal remarks to the Law Society of Australia, I want to make a brief comment about what was said this afternoon by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren).  He is not in the chamber at the moment, but I think he was aware that I would probably say something about the comments which he made this afternoon regarding the New South Wales Police Force. I understood the honourable member to be directing his remarks at the whole of the New South Wales Police Force. After serving 24 years in the New South Wales Police Force, I was very proud of the fact that 90 per cent of its members were honourable citizens and were trying to do efficiently a distasteful job for society in general. 
I submit that the enthusiasm of the honourable member for Reid is no greater than my own in the condemnation of the Government's legislation regarding demonstrations. Unfortunately, members of the police force are the meat in the sandwich between that section of society which is objecting to our involvement in the Vietnam war and the Government's legislation. The police have to carry out a distasteful duty. I have been critical of them when they have used unnecessary force in controlling demonstrators. But without doing any probing, I understand that the incident in which the honourable member for Reid was involved occurred because a senior officer had directed a number of young constables to move a lot of demonstrators onto the footpath. The young constable who came into conflict with my colleague, the honourable member for Reid, was carrying out his superior's instruction to push people back onto the footpath, and I believe that the honourable member for Reid was one to whom this treatment was meted out. 
The honourable member for Reid summonsed by number a young constable who had not been long out of his probation. He was about 22 years of age and had 2 or 3 children. I do not know who were the legal advisers of the honourable member for Reid, but with my knowledge of police law I would not have advised him to summons a number. From my knowledge in police courts, it is practically unprecedented to summons a policeman by number. However, the honourable member for Reid received legal advice and that is what he did, but the charge failed. I regret that he became inolved in this matter at all, and I regret that he used the strong words that he did use. But I do not think that he really intended that they should apply to the whole of the New South Wales police force. 
I now refer the House to the inconsistent attitude adopted by the New South Wales Law Society. I say at this point that I have the greatest respect for a great number of the legal advocates in this nation with whom I have had very close association. On many occasions they appear for persons without seeking a fee. On the other hand, I know that in many cases they charge exorbitant fees. I wanted to make these remarks this afternoon during the debate on the estimates for the Attorney-General's Department becauseI believed that the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  is in a position to show a greater degree of pride in his profession. I understand from a reliable source that Professor Wootten, who investigated the living standards of Aborigines in Australia some time ago, made adverse comment on the fact that public defender facilities for Aborigines were practically non-existent. But the Law Society of Australia never uttered one word in connection with this inadequacy. In the New South Wales Parliament the Summary Offences Act, which was bitterly criticised by many sections of society, was passed after one week's notice. Not a word of objection was heard from the New South Wales Law Society. 
In Papua New Guinea in 1970 the controversial Public Order Ordinance was passed by the House of Assembly. This was at a time when the International 
Commission of Jurists was in Papua New Guinea. This information came to the knowledge of the International Commission of Jurists which, I understand, was critical of the legislation which was passed by the House of Assembly because it put the onus of proof on to the defendant. This legislation was repulsive - the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  assures me that this is correct - to decent, thinking Australians. The Faculty of Law in Papua New. Guinea became aware of this legislation and criticised it after its provisions had been leaked to the Faculty. Again there was not a word from the Law Society of Australia. Forty-six legal academics signed a letter of criticism of the legislation and expressed their concern. In 1969 the New South Wales Listening Devices Act was passed. There was not a word of objection from the Law Society to this obnoxious legislation. Again there was not a word of objection from the New South Wales Law Society to the gaoling of the Anglican Bishop in South Africa recently. The Law Society of Australia raised no objection to the law relating to exposure to moral danger, which has been criticised by many sections of society, particularly by die civil liberties organisations in New South Wales, as being a very unfair law. 
Time will not permit me to make reference to the very bitter and justified criticism by 2 academics from the Australian National University, namely,  Mr P.  N. Troy - I presume that that is Paddy Troy, a lecturer at the University - and Professor N. G. Butlin. They pointed out the exorbitant legal costs in third party actions. Their criticism was given wide publicity in the 'National Times' of 25th- 30th October and in the 'Canberra Times' in an article by Professor Geoffrey Sawer, Professor of Law at the Australian National University. He said: 
Australian law school teachers will greet with enthusiasm the Troy-Butlin book on the cost of collisions just published by Cheshire, even though a considerable pari of the legal profession would go into deep mourning if they thought that the book was likely to have the slightest immediate impact on the behaviour of governments. 
Again there was not one word from the Law Society of Australia. The problems have been exposed in these articles that I have before me. The honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown),  who is a lawer. is smiling: but I think he has enough decency to agree with the facts I am giving to the Parliament. Almost onethird of the costs of legal actions goes to the legal profession. I think it is time for a complete change, as was suggested by Troy and Butlin in their book, which is not available in the Parliamentary Library because there is such a demand for it by honourable members. This gives me great joy. I believe that if honourable members read the submissions in the book to which I have referred there would soon be a change in the third party law. Many members of the legal profession - not the decent ones - have made too much of a feast for too long of the present third party provisions. 
The time is long overdue for legislation to change the third party law. I suggest that the Law Society should act consistently with regard to all obnoxious laws, in which I include the restrictive trade practices legislation which the AttorneyGeneral of the time, the present Chief Justice, put on the slate in this place for 18 months because, he said, he wanted to hear comment from society on it. A similar situation applies in respect of the Companies Act. It is always necessary to have comments from the Law Society before changes are made to an Act of that kind. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. I ask: Was he correctly reported as saying at a White House dinner on 2nd November that the right honourable member for Higgins 'has become a bigger nuisance outside the Cabinet than in it', and, if so, were his comments made privately or in public? Also, was he correctly reported as saying publicly on 3rd November that comments on Vietnam attributed to the leading contender for the Democratic Party presidential nomination constituted 'one of those occasions when 1 am driven to despair', and that  Senator Muskie  was less well informed on Vietnam than his Republican opponents? Must all Ministers travelling overseas now prosecute domestic Australian political disputes and intervene in the domestic political disputes of their hosts? 
I am sorry to detain the House at so late an hour, but I feel that I should make in the national Parliament submissions of considerable public importance. Only a few weeks ago the overwhelming majority of Australians again paid particular interest to Australia's greatest horse race - the Melbourne Cup - when millions of dollars changed hands. This year has seen millions of dollars changing hands as a result of Australias interest in mineral developments through the sometimes called snide stock exchange dealings which brought into being the Senate Select Committee to investigate securities and exchange and the Australian stock exchange. 
A week before the Melbourne Cup, an abortion trial took place at the Sydney criminal courts. It is generally accepted by those interested that a considerable amount was involved in the trial of 5 of the country's most prominent allegedly illegal abortionists. I refer to the trial of  Dr Louis  Wald of Vaucluse,  Dr Thomas  Charles Wall, medical practitioner of Double Bay,  Dr George  Benthan Morris and  Mr and Mrs Robert  Colbourne of the Heatherbrae Clinic, Bondi. This quintet of accused were acquitted after a 4-week trial in Judge Levine's court. They obtained the mercy of Judge Levine's court as the learned judge's summation to the jury more or less depicted them as great humanitarians relieving their patients of great mental turmoil and physical distress and reprieving them from possible death should their pregnancies have continued. If the medical practitioners believed that such was the case, it was not unlawful to terminate the pregnancy. I understand that was the context of the learned judge's remarks to the jury. 
Abortion law reformists, for whom I have considerable sympathy, welcomed the court decision. But I point out to the Parliament just how far these medical practitioners, supposedly possessed of great humanitarian qualities, were concerned about the future health of their patients. On page 114 of the annual report of the Commissioner of Taxation for the year 1970-71 the name  Dr Thomas  Charles Wall appears. He is reported in this document as understating his assessable income by an estimated $24,471. I have no doubt that he is identical with the accused Wall who obtained the mercy of Judge Levine's court recently. I ask: How much did he really get away with? To what extent is his make-up humanitarian? On page 123 of the report of the Commissioner of Taxation for the year 1970-71 the name of Louis Wald, medical practitioner of Vaucluse, appears for understatement of income. He is quoted as understating his income by $8,615. Again I ask: How much did he really get away with? So far I have been unable to locate the name of  Dr George  Morris among the income tax defaulters. 
I take it that the 3 doctors mentioned - Doctors Morris, Wald and Wall, have long ago taken the medical practitioner's oath. I understand it says: 1 swear to defend the integrity of human life and maintain upright relationship with my medical colleagues.' I have been informed that the number of illegal abortions carried out at the Heatherbrae abortion clinic at Bondi average 16 a day, at an average cost of $200 to the unfortunate womenfolk who visit there. The fee is always requested to be in cash, and no receipts are given. Does this depict this quintet of abortionists as people moved by humanitarian qualities? Sixteen operations a day in a 5-day week, in simple arithmetic, amount to 80 abortions a week at a charge of $200 an abortion. In my calculations this would earn for the clinic $16,000 a week. If one were to assess this income over a period of 52 weeks or a calendar year, the income to these doctors or the Heatherbrae clinic would amount to $832,000 a year. 
I just point this out in passing to depict the human qualities that Judge Levine's court led the jury to believe. The trial lasted over a 4-week period and the jury were allowed to go to their homes each night prior to the commencement of the addresses of the Crown Prosecutor, defence counsel and the judge's summation to the jury. I am not suggesting that the court or the jury were corrupt in any way, but I know that corrupting a jury over a period of a lengthy trial is not without precedent in Australian criminal courts where big money and powerful influences are involved. It is really a simple matter to contact jurors or some of their closest friends while a trial is proceeding. Their full names are called out so many times during the trial that one has only to pick up a Sydney telephone directory to be able to identify them with sitting jurors. 
Despite the apparent or obvious wealth of the 5 accused, their counsel, one of Australia's most eminent Queen's Counsel,  Sir Jack  Cassidy - whom we never hear of appearing for a conscientious objector or a person of low income - in my view is throwing mud in the face of the Crown and the Australian community or the Australian taxpayer by now asking that the costs of the trial be awarded against the Crown. In the event of this application being successful the Australian taxpayer will have to pay out $25,000 to $30,000. For instance, an abortionist under trial in the Sydney criminal court has been quoted by a leading Sydney Queen's Counsel $2,000 as a retainer to take the case and $6,000 for his defence. 
Is it any wonder that we find it indicated in the daily Press that the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  an up and coming leading criminal lawyer in his own State of Queensland, is fairly throwing away his political career, casting it to the winds, as his life in politics has given him an alternative profession - that of a criminal lawyer. But I do not suggest that he is throwing his political career to the winds to encroach on the rich preserves of defence counsel who appear for prominent wealthy abortionists. I believe that it well could be his wish to defend only those abortionists who seek his help and who become accused of infringing the criminal law on humanitarian grounds in using the merciful interpretation of the law of the humane Judge Levine who adjudicated at the recent gigantic abortion trial of the clique from the Bondi clinic. 
That brings me to the point that to destroy a human life in its mother's womb is reprehensible in the extreme. But  is  it not equally or more reprehensible for a mother to be driven to the point of mental and physical torment or to the point  of  suicidal indifference because she is unable to terminate an unwanted pregnancy as she cannot find the necessary money or the necessary abortionist? In my view, this whole situation is 'brought about by parliaments and politicians failing in their duties to the community and not being prepared either to legalise or to stamp out this sordid evil of which so many of our womenfolk in the community have at some time in their life been forced to seek to avail themselves. Recently we read in the newspapers of an attempt being made by a Sydney doctor to bribe with an offer  of  $300 a week a CIB officer engaged in the suppression of abortion. That officer will be the principal Crown witness at the trial of a wealthy doctor whose attempts at corruption failed. I think the Government should at least make a statement to the people of Australia. Those unfortunate women who pay out exorbitant amounts of money to terminate pregnancies should be invited to make claims against taxation when the expenditure  is  genuine. The Taxation Commissioner's report for the year 1969-70 also pointed out that Frederick James George Smart, a medical practitioner well known as a lone operator in the professional abortionist field, under stated his taxable income by $29,368. 

 Mr Acting Speaker, time will not permit me to say all I wanted to, but I do hope that the Government will do all in  its  power in relation to these matters. (Extension of time granted.) I made reference to Frederick James George Smart who understated his taxable income by $29,368.  I  was somewhat bewildered last week when I asked the Parliamentary Library for a copy of Judge Levine's summation to the jury. This is usually supplied at short notice by the senior court reporter in Sydney. However, I am grateful that Judge Levine replied promptly to my wire today and  is  making his summation to the jury available to members of the Parliament per medium of the Parliamentary Library. I hope that my remarks tonight may achieve something in reducing this racket and the high costs  of  abortion brought about by a few ghouls  in  the honourable medical profession. Many honourable members of this Parliament exemplify the highest conduct in the medical profession and I certainly do not want to denigrate that decent section of the medical profession who honour their oaths and obligations to society in such a self sacrificing way. But I believe that the ghouls should be exposed and the honourable men should be applauded. 
It is with some degree of reluctance that I raise the matter of what I believe all honourable members will regard as a scurrilous document. I want to refer to the book that is circulating in Australia titled 'The Outcasts of Foolgarah' which I have in my possession. This book, 1 understand, is in its second edition and has been circulating in this country. Twenty thousand copies or more have been sold. It is now being reprinted. It has received wide publicity in the Press. I want to make some reference to what was said in the Adelaide 'Advertiser'. In an article in the 'Advertiser' a journalist, Alan Roberts, wrote: 
The $60,000 question is: Will Frank Hardy get away with it? 
It's my bet that he will. There's been far too much dust kicked up in Canberra lately for even a politician to be stupid enough to make himself a laughing stock by slapping a writ on an author he may, think has defamed him. 
For Frank Hardy has been litigated by experts and has survived to cock a snook at those who thought they had him by the ankles. 
Not for him the 'All characters are fictitious. Any resemblance to living persons. &amp;c.' lurk. No, he nails his colors to the mast. 
In referring to 'The Outcasts of Foolgarah' he goes on to say: 
Persons claiming to identify themselves wilh characters in this book do so at their own risk.' 
Those whom it may concern, before they allow themselves to get uppity, should ponder this and remember the miasma that mushroomed up into a cloud when certain people didn't like what Hardy said in his novel 'Power Without Glory,' 
Some years ago in this Parliament I offered my services to the Crown to act as a Crown witness in a prosecution against a man who had written scurrilous articles about members of Parliament. This was somewhere back in 1962 or 1963. The then Attorney-General,  Sir Garfield  Barwick, instituted successful proceedings against the man who was ultimately sentenced to 12 months hard labour. That man was put in his right place. He had libelled mc in his book. I was prepared to testify but other honourable members, for some reason or another, were not. In regard to this book, "The Outcasts of Foolgarah', the 'Australian' had this to say: 
Thoroughly scurrilous, possibly libellous, defamatory and blasphemous, careless of the dangers of depraving, corrupting and  disaffecting  Her Majesty's subjects . . .' 
The 'Sunday Review' called this book, 'a bawdy celebration of the end of the Gorton era'. By printing the words 'persons claiming to identify themselves with characters in this book do so at their own risk' the author is challenging certain characters. In the Senate a few weeks ago the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  was asked whether he would institute proceedings against the author of this book, The Outcasts of Foolgarah', for criminal libel. I understand that the AttorneyGeneral said that he would look into the matter. The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  is referred to in the book as  'Sir William  Bigears'. He is advised to marry and to put his power behind a newspaper tycoon called  'Sir Jasper  Storeman', who can readily be identified as  Sir Frank  Packer. Page 1 90 of this book reads: 
But  Sir William  Bigears will have something to say at the right moment. 
That's Billy coming up the stairs now: once seen never forgotten, head on him like a tawdry turnip, lard-sculled and donkey-eared, aloof, mealy of mouth and  mincey  of step, dignified, a real fighter against inflation and a deflator of real wages, cool, an awful aorta. 
In another part the book reads: 
And wherever  Sir William  Bigears goes.  Sir Jasper  Storeman himself is apt to be hovering near as he is now: bluff and blustering, a master of the mass media, tall and lowering, not to be trusted wilh the newspaper you can trust, wild and wooly-headed. 
I have been inspired to comment on this matter because of the submissions made by members of the Australian Labor Party, particularly that of the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden).  The Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  has been kind enough to give me a brief period to speak so I will endeavour to curtail my remarks. I probably could say some things of interest to the House, but in my desire to oblige the Minister I will not do so. The honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  is most concerned about the reform of the criminal code and this is to his great credit. If Australian society and members of Parliament are not alerted to the problems of crime in our country today they never will be in the future because I think we must all accept the fact that crime is at an all time high. I do not think the figures relating to unsolved crime have grown to the extent that newspapers are saying they have. By that I mean that they have always been high and that the police departments of the different States have hidden the true figures. An incoming commissioner of police has inherited and continued a system whereby the true crime figures have not been disclosed. Honourable members may recall that 18 months or 2 years after I came to this Parliament I disclosed that the true crime figures in New South Wales were not being reported to the Government. That statement was frowned upon and I was criticised by some of the Labor members in the State Parliament for saying this. But time has proved that my statement was correct. 
On the questions of abortion and homosexuality, I believe that if a gallup poll was taken - one may have been taken already - we would find that the overwhelming majority of Australians wants reform in these fields. Like the honourable member for Oxley, before I came to the Parliament homosexuality to me was something repugnant and nauseating. But having learned and read considerably about this subject since I have been here, I appreciate now that one of the foulest crimes that can be committed - one that is so prevalent in our society in regard to homosexuality and abortion - is blackmail. This was prevalent in our mother country, Great Britain, particularly in relation to homosexuality, as was proved by the Wolfenden report. It was found in Great Britain that unfortunates who had this weakness or frailty in their character- I say the same problem exists here - had been blackmailed for 20 or 30 years. One has to appreciate, I repeat, that the blackmailer is the most offensive type of person in the community. We know that too often the offence of blackmail-- 
Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  When the axe fell on me I was, I thought, following a line similar to that taken by the honourable member for Oxley. As you have explained, you did allow previous speakers to widen the scope of their remarks, but I realise that you must bring me back to the motion before the House. I suppose there will be another opportunity for me to relate to the House some experiences that I had in 22 years of investigating serious crime. However, I appreciate that the matter before the House relates to the suspension of the Standing Orders to permit a motion to be moved for the setting up of a select committee to investigate and report upon the proposed draft criminal code for the Commonwealth Territories. I agree entirely with the submissions made by the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory that such a committee should be set up with the object of introducing the reforms so urgently needed in connection with matters of crime that affect our society in the Australian Capital Territory and the other Territories of the Commonwealth. Let us hope that when the report of such a committee ultimately eventuates we will beable to give a lead to the States in modernising criminal codes throughout the Commonwealth. That would be of great benefit to society in general. I support the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory in his attempt to have a select committee appointed. 
The tributes that have been paid to the  Clerk  of the House tonight are worthy of him. He would not be worthy of those remarks had he not had the quality to hear courteously, to answer wisely, to consider soberly and, above all, to act impartially. For these great attributes that he possesses, we all love him. 
1 heartily congratulate the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  on what he has said. Honourable members know that I am a member of the Joint Committee on Public Works which has visited the Northern Territory on at least 5 or 6 occasions this year under the chairmanship of the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly).  I can assure this Parliament that what the honourable member for Bradfield said about the liquor store near Oenpelli is correct. I had the privilage of talking to the manager of the liquor store near Oenpelli not very long ago and what he told me without hesitation confirms that the facts quoted by the honourable member for Bradfield from the newspaper articles are true. Our country would  be richer if there were more speeches of the type made by the honourable member for Bradfield regarding the peoples of the Northern Territory and particularly the Aborigines It is true that the Aborigines trudge for days after they get their social service cheques. I am not trying to denigrate the administration of Aboriginal affairs. This is a problem with which all of us should be concerned. Without mentioning socialism or nationalism, if ever there was an industry that needed Government control to remove the profit motive it is the liquor industry in the Northern Territory, so that no more would a person selling intoxicating liquor be able to enrich himself through the intoxication of Aborigines. It would be to the credit of this Government if it were to do something in that regard. The Public Works Committee will be visiting the Oenpelli Mission next week in its investigation of the beef roads project. 
What the honourable member for Bradfield has said is true and I hope the Parliament and the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts  (Mr Howson)  will read what he said and do something about the intoxication of Aborigines and the profit motive behind the sale of liquor to Aborigines. The Marys, wives or gins and their children remain outside the liquor store while the men in ignorance exhaust the social service payments that the Government makes to them. I will not detain the Parliament any longer and I conclude by again congratulating the honourable member for Bradfield for bringing this matter forward. 
As a member of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works, I point out that the Committee diligently examined all aspects of the proposed works as you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  would doubtless be aware. I feel happy that the Committee has recommended the proposed work the expenditure for which is $1.3m. The estimated cost of the Katherine sewerage system may sound a lot but when one measures it against military hardware such as Fill bombers and rocket firing destroyers it warms one's heart to think that something is being done more directly for the Australian people. Some of the witnesses who gave evidence during the Committee hearings were concerned about the possible pollution of the Katherine River but the Committee after carefully obtaining evidence to the contrary was satisfied that there was no possibility cf the Katherine River being polluted by the proposed works. 
Katherine, as we all know, is part of our great country. The terrain is flat. About 3 feet or 4 feet under the surface the soil is very clayey which makes it difficult for the ordinary septic tanks which are at present installed in the town to dispose of the effluent, particularly during the wet season. I know that people in my own home region have had problems with their septic tanks during the recent heavy rains on the east coast and this brought to my mind the problems that the people of Katherine must have during the wet season. The population of Katherine is increasing. It is expected that by 1975 the population will be in the vicinity of 4,000 people. The population of Katherine between 1954 and 1961 was 555 to 606 excluding Aborigines. So as the town grows I think the Parliament has to be more concerned with the needs of the people in this distant part of Australia. I am very happy to have been a party to investigating this matter, listening to the evidence and finding out at first hand the urgent need for this scheme to be implemented at Katherine. I wholeheartedly support the recommendation to the Parliament. 
1 will be very brief. I endorse the remarks of the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  and support the resolution before the House. The Canberra people are very fortunate in having this central hospital services complex about to be put into operation. My only regret is that it is not located somewhere closer to the electorate of Hunter to serve the Cessnock, Maitland, Kurri and Newcastle hospitals. However, I think it is a step in the right direction. As the honourable member for Hughes said, there was some conflict between members of the medical profession and officers from the Department of Health when they testified before the Parliamentary Standing Committe on Public Works as to whether it would be satisfactory to send important and valuable medical instruments away from a hospital to be sterilised. The Committee diligently followed the evidence and cross-examined the witnesses. I satisfied myself that there was no need for the concern expressed by the members of the medical profession. Neurosurgeons show interest in their working tools just as a plumber or a carpenter does and probably fear them getting into so many hands that some minor part of an important and valuable instrument used in brain surgery might be lost. But after the Committee visited the sterilisation plant at the Canberra Hospital and saw the methods employed by the staff there I formed the opinion there was only a remote possibility of any small part of these important instruments used in brain surgery going astray. 
Another aspect which the Committee probed was the location of this central hospitals complex. It is to be located centrally so that all the hospitals - the Calvary Hospital, the Woden Hospital when it comes along and the Canberra Hospital - can be equally served by travelling a similar distance to bring the laundry and surgical instruments to it for sterilisation. The Committee even looked at the possibility of roads flooding and causing some hold-up in the linen supply, but there is no possibility of that. In my view the Committee was very thorough in its probing of the evidence and its crossexamination of the witnesses in connection with this matter of the central hospital services complex now before the House. I was rather surprised when the evidence was unfolding before the Committee to hear of the difficulty experienced in getting female labour to work in the hospital laundry. One would think that with so many new-Australian women in this region the task of getting female labour for a job where they would not encounter language difficulties would be much more simple. One matter that concerned me was that expensive, ultra-modern laundry equipment could not be used on two or three shifts a day. It could even handle laundry from the Commonwealth hostels, Parliament House and other government instrumentalities. If a modern laundry for hospitals operates for only one shift a day I would like to see it eventually being used to handle laundry from all Commonwealth departments in Canberra and work 2 or 3 shifts each day. I think it would be a step closer towards the political ideology that is deep in my heart. It would be a step towards socialism. I have much pleasure in endorsing the recommendation of the Public Works Committee now before the House. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Health whether he is aware of a report that the Drug Evaluation Committee has reversed the attitude of the Director-General of Health to have the anti-depressant drug imipramine withdrawn from sale, on the ground that only one mother has given birth to a physically deformed child and not 3 mothers, as was originally believed. Is he aware that  Dr McBride  has expressed grave disappointment at the recommendation of the Drug Evaluation Committee? Will the Minister express an opinion as to how many incidents of physically deformed children being born should occur as a result of the use of this drug before the drug should be withdrawn from sale? If it is not to be withdrawn from sale, will he see that the top of the container is clearly marked in red, as was recommended by  Dr McBride,  indicating that the drug is dangerous to pregnant women? 
I present the following petition: 
The Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the Public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on whichit should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to National Development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled the petition of the undersigned electors of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That on 10th December 1948, Australia signed the 'Universal Declaration of Human Rights', Article 25 reads: 'Everyone has the right to security in the event of unemployment, sickness, disability, widowhood, old age and other lack of livelihood in circumstances beyond bis control.' 
Yet, 23 years later, in our country of great national wealth and abundance it is to the nation's shame that many thousands of our people live in a state of being inconsistent with the dignity and worth of the human person - languishing in poverty and want, neglect and the lack of proper care necessary for their health and well-being. 
We, the undersigned, respectfully draw to your attention that the conscience of the nation is not at ease while the records of our country show that social services are not comparable with that of other advanced countries administering such services, therefore, we call upon the Commonwealth Government to immediately legislate for: 
Base pension rate - 30 per cent of the average weekly male earnings, all states, plus supplementary assistance and allowances based on a percentage of such earnings. Unemployed benefits equal to the foregoing. 
Completely free health services to cover all needs for social service pensioners - hospitalisation, chronic and long-term illness, fractures, anaesthetics, specialist, pharmaceutical, hearing aids, dental, optical, physiotherapy, chiropody, surgical aids and any other appliances. 
Commonwealth Government to promote a comprehensive national scheme in cooperation with the States and make finance available to provide for the building of public hospitals, nursing and hostel-type homes necessary to effectively meet the special requirements of aged people, in conjunction with a comprehensive domiciliary care programme to enable aged people to stay in their homes. 
Mental illness placed in the same position as physical illness. 
Substantial Commonwealth increase in the $5 subsidy a day per public bed pensioner patient in general hospitals. 
Ten per cent of Commonwealth revenue to local government for general activities which now include social welfare, health, conservation and other community needs. Commonwealth subsidy for the waiving of rates for pensioners. 
Commonwealth Government to increase the non-repayable grant to the States for low rental home units for pensioners. 
Royal Commission or other form of public enquiry into Australia's social welfare structure that Australia may be brought intoline with accepted world standards of the most advanced countries. 
And your petitioners, as in duly bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
If the issues of Vietnam were not so serious it would be humorous to hear the arguments put up tonight by members of the Government and its supporters, particularly the arguments of the Minister for the Army  (Mr Katter).  I admire the courage of the Minister in trying to defend a hopeless case. I always avail myself of the opportunity of speaking about Vietnam. For over 20 years I prepared and listened to evidence in criminal courts and in that time I never struck a case in which the evidence was so overwhelmingly in favour of one side as it is in favour of the Australian Labor Party in respect of Australia's involvement in Vietnam. Our involvement will be to our everlasting disgrace. Our history books will record that the Australian Government was never able to live down its commitments of our forces to Vietnam. Future generations will ask: What was the attitude of my parents to that involvement back in 1962?* Our commitment has been a shame and disgrace. 
Like the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  I commend the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  for his submissions tonight. I would like to place on the parliamentary records that I always have held the view that no person in the southern hemisphere has a greater knowledge of the history of the war in Vietnam than the honourable member for Lalor. He has written two or three books on the problems of South East Asia. 
The arguments of a former Minister for the Army, the honourable member for 
Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer)  were as weak as the arguments of the present Minister for the Army. I was listening in my room to the broadcast of the debate and I heard the honourable gentleman refer to the Geneva Conference of 1954. He said that time would not permit him to spell out the issues of Vietnam. I have never heard a weaker argument. He never mentioned that the North Vietnamese were promised free election in 1954. Their attitude was tame until they woke up to the fact that they were being deprived of free elections in accordance with the principles of the Geneva Accords. When the North Vietnamese were deprived of free elections a right which the Australian people have cherished for many years - they took up arms because they had been deceived. 
I will answer the honourable member for Griffith. Elections for the whole of Vietnam were to be supervised by the International Commission. That is borne out by the word of the honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison). 
It is true. The elections were to be supervised by the International Commission. The Vietnamese were promised free elections covering the whole of Vietnam under the supervision of the International Commission. The honourable member for Bennelong mentioned the fact that cattle were killed and said that he had to have a bodyguard. Then I heard him say that his death might not have been a great loss. I want to centre my remarks tonight on the use of defoliants by the United States of America. When the wheat crops were destroyed the people had no flour. A person deprived of food will steal or do anything. I guess that when the United States engaged on its anti-food campaign against the Vietcong and destroyed their grain they had to steal cattle in order to keep themselves and their loved ones alive. 
The honourable member for Bennelong had the temerity to say that the Australian people were behind the Government's decision to send troops to Vietnam. He said that this was revealed in a gallup pool. How true was the statement of the hon ourable member for Lalor that the mass media were reluctant to tell the Australian people the truth. When the Australian people discovered the truth the opinion revealed by the gallup polls swung the other way. The mass media no longer could hold back the truth. The same situation existed in the United States. When the bodies of United States servicemen started to flow back to the United States the people of that country began making inquiries about the validity of America's involvement. 
The  Deputy  Government Whip  (Mr Giles)  is smiling. He has never reminded the Parliament that 55,000 United States troops have been killed in Vietnam. They represented the cream of American youth. He has also never reminded the Parliament that 15,000 American youths defected to Canada to dodge the draft and that they were granted, amnesty by the Canadian Government. It is to the credit of the Canadian Government that it did so. It is also to the credit of the United Kingdom that it never backed the United States, although I believe that Harold Wilson could have been stronger in that he did not dissociate the British people from the Vietnam war until the Americans started to bomb North Vietnam. Those are some of the facts. 
How the Australian Government can now try to justify Australia's involvement in Vietnam is beyond me. It would be to the credit of this Government if it were to stand up and say that it believed that it was wrong in involving Australia in the conflict in Vietnam. The Australian Government would gain respect if it did that. I accuse every member of the Government parties who was a party to involving Australia in the war in Vietnam of being a murderer of every Australian boy killed there. They will have it on their consciences for every and ever. 
The honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  made reference to the courageous attitude of  President  Kennedy in demanding that missiles be taken out of Cuba. In some ways I admired  President  Kennedy for the attitude he adopted under the pressure of American big business. But has the Parliament been told that a part of the agreement to the taking of missiles out of Cuba was that 
America was to take its own missiles out of Turkey and Greece and promise the Cuban Government, led by  Dr Fidel  Castro, that it would not invade Cuba? The honourable member for St George, who is an expert in foreign affairs, assures me that that is correct. The Parliament should know these things. 
The Parliament is discussing a ministerial statement entitled 'Australian Forces in Vietnam  -  1962-1972' that was made last Thursday night by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn).  In it the Minister for Defence purported to trace the history of Australia's involvement in Vietnam from the beginning to the withdrawal of our combat forces in December of last year. Honourable members would know that, like most of my colleagues on this side of the House, I have been a most bitter opponent of Australia's involvement in Vietnam since its inception. I honestly believe that the Vietnam war will go down in history as the most barbaric in the history of mankind. I hope during the remainder of my speech to make some positive contribution towards proving my argument. It is true to say that Hitler built crematoriums in Eastern Europe during World War II to dispose of his enemies. I believe that it is equally true to say that the United States Government transported its crematoriums to Vietnam to dispose of enemies of the United States, as it thought it was doing, during the Vietnam war. 
I would like to place on the record of this Parliament the extent to which chemicals were used by the United States Air Force on areas alleged to be held or used by the enemy. The United States added a new dimension to its use of chemical weapons in 1961, which was the year a plant science laboratory team from Fort Detrick visited Vietnam to test ways of destroying with chemicals the jungle trees and foliage successfully held and used by the Vietcong for concealment. Selected strips of land were used. The team concluded its investigations and reported to its authorities that no serious damage would result from the use of chemicals in this manner. But what started out as a recommendation for the limited application of herbicides and defoliants in narrow strips became the basis for an anti-foliage and anti-food campaign waged against more than 4.5 million acres of Vietnamese countryside. 
Let us remind ourselves that chemical defoliants and anti-crop weapons were not developed when the Geneva Protocol ban on chemical and biological warfare was written. There is no specific mention of herbicides or defoliants in the wording of the international agreement. However, in my view reasonably minded men would regard anti-crop and anti-vegetation weapons as clearly falling within the chemical warfare specifications of the Geneva Agreement of 1925. I believe that the United States Army realised this. The United States Army's manual, under the heading 'Military Biology and Biological Agents', refers to this fact. Yet we find that the Minister for Defence in his statement on Vietnam in this House, which we are now debating spoke with some degree of pride about our achievements in Vietnam. In my view - and I repeat this - it is to our everlasting disgrace that the LiberalCountry Party Government of this nation ever allowed us to be a party to the destruction, by the world's greatest military power, of the land of peasant people who were fighting against corruption, exploitation, serfdom and slavery for a better way of life. 
As regards the use of defoliants, the United States Army manual on the subject states that there are no proven defensive measures against these compounds. By the time the symptoms appear nothing can be done to prevent damage. The compounds are detoxified in the soil after a period of several weeks to several months. No Government supporter or even the Minister in his statement on Vietnam made any reference to these facts. I realise that I have only a short time available to me tonight, but I want to refer to the Dow Chemical Co. Forthright Australians, who demonstrated against this company's subsidiaries in Australia, were charged and locked up. But the Dow Chemical Company's defoliage spray containers carried this warning: 
Do  not contaminate irrigation ditches or water used for domestic purposes. 
Caution. May cause skin irritation. Avoid contact with eyes, skin and clothing. Keep out  of  reach of children. 
The warning went on to say: 
Caution irritation of skin and eyes ... In case of contact, flush eyes with plenty ' of water for at least IS minutes and get medical attention; wash skin with soap and plenty of water. 
In 1962 the United States defoliated 4,940 acres in South Vietnam. In 1967, at the peak, it defoliated 1,486,446 acres. In 1968 it defoliated 1,267,110 acres in South Vietnam. In 1968 63,726 acres of crops were destroyed in South Vietnam. I repeat that if ever the Australian Labor Party and demonstrators in this country were justified in defying a law, it was in connection with our involvement in Vietnam. I hope that the government which is elected at the next elections - whether it be a Labor government or a Liberal-Country Party government - will see fit to remove the stigma of any convictions which have been recorded against any demonstrators in this country who demonstrated against the Vietnam war. 
 In supporting the motion, I desire to point out briefly that the Public Works Committee visited Tennant Creek. We carefully examined all the evidence available to us and considered that the proposed sewerage system was urgently needed. When heavy rains come, septic tanks must be pumped out 2 or 3 times a week. One of the propositions which was put to the Public Works Committee was that, when this sewerage reticulation and treatment plant becomes operative the treated water could be used - probably it will be used - to irrigate forest lands at Tennant Creek. This would be a great advantage to the little town because those honourable members who have been to Tennant Creek must appreciate how devoid of trees that part of Australia is. It is very arid country. There is every indication now that the population of the town will expand more rapidly than ever before because of the increasing mining interests in the Tennant Creek region. I feel that I speak on behalf of every member of the Joint Committee on Public Works when 1 say that we support this motion and would like to see the work expedited. 
The Public Works Committee examined the proposal for the construction of this road which will be a heavy charge against the Australian taxpayer. During the hearing of evidence in connection with this matter I crossexamined the manager of a very extensive property in the Northern Territory. I was amazed when he complained, in answer to a question, that this road might transgress on part of the vast station property of which he was manager. I shall not identify the property, other than to say that it was in the Northern Territory. During the hearing I asked him whether he would sooner see the plans for the road abandoned than have the road transgress on a 10-mile portion of this property in which buffalo were grazing. He paused and then replied that he would sooner see the road abandoned. In a lighter vein he said: 'We are selfish people, we graziers, and I would sooner see it abandoned'. I was astounded at his reply which was not made as a spontaneous remark. I think every honourable member would have expected a grazier to be most grateful to have available to him this access road which would be of tremendous benefit to his property. 
The main objective of this road is to serve this property and a number of other properties, but to serve particularly the new uranium mining project which is about to begin at Ranger, close to the proposed road. I say, particularly for the benefit of Country Party members, that I hope the view expressed by this witness does not reflect the outlook of many graziers to whom members of that Party pledge their great loyalty from time to time. Before leaving that matter I should point out that the station to which I have been referring is isolated for 3 or 4 months of each year but that when the proposed road is built the property will have continuous access to Darwin. 
The road will service also the Oenpelli Anglican Mission. The Oenpelli Mission is to be commended for the very important part it plays in contributing to the welfare of our Aboriginal people, but I was surprised that people at the mission did not show greater keenness towards the construction of the road. The people of Oenpelli Mission will have year-round access to Darwin when the road is completed. I was simply astounded at the attitude of representatives of prominent cattle stations in the Northern Territory and certain people of the Oenpelli Mission. I would have expected them to be deeply proud and grateful for the expenditure by the Government of this vast amount of taxpayer's money in order to give them an all-weather road access to Darwin at any time of the year. 
Is the Minister for Foreign Affairs prepared as soon as possible to challenge the honourable member for Lalor to an hour's public debate on Vietnam on the Australian Broadcasting Commission's television programmes? Could the Minister answer yes or no? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Which banks in Australia pay interest on current accounts. 
I think all honourable members on the Opposition side of the, House would agree that the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly),  single handed, has made out a pressing case for the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  not to visit the countries in Asia that he intends to visit in June. I agree with the remarks of the honourable member for Grayndler. I intend to submit to the House tonight some, facts regarding a statement made today. I am grateful that the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  is present in the chamber. The Minister made some disclosures today in his ministerial statement on defence. I heard the Minister say-   ~i 
.Referring to the Government's policy on defence, some remarks were made in connection with the Tet offensive in Hue, that ancient city in Vietnam. I am grateful for some information that came to me from  Mr Peter  McCawley, secretary of an organisation known as Concerned Asian Scholars of Australia and New Zealand at the Australian National University. The Government's policy discloses that important films are in the possession of a senior Minister. The films relate to graves, according to what has been stated to the nation by this responsible senior Minister, containing the bodies of a large number of victims of the Vietcong during the Tet offensive in Hue. The information with which I have been supplied by  Mr McCawley  comes from reputable journalists who were in Hue immediately after the Tet offensive and carried out what is regarded by world students of the Vietnam war as an on-the-spot investigation as promptly as any research officers after that offensive. The. facts contained in the documents I hold in my hand refute the allegations made to the nation by a senior Minister. I hope time will permit me to disclose some of these important facts. The Government's policy, almost word for word, agrees with statements made by  President  Nixon about alleged massacres by the Vietcong in this ancient city of Hue. An article that I have in my possession states: 
The Americans have regained Hue at the cost of destroying it They will be blamed for that 
The presence of the common graves is emphasised in an article by Stewart Harris written just after Young's. 
A man named Young had done some research. The article continues: 
He writes that he personally saw evidence of such burials in the city and was told of a particularly large one outside the city. He adds that he was not allowed to visit it because the place was too insecure, a reason which aroused no suspicion in him. As to the number of civilians killed- 
The Chief of Police in Hue, a man named Doan Cong Lap, supplied the following information to the research officers. The article continues: 
The Communists were directly responsible for 200 deaths in the city, while civilian casualties due to bombing and crossfire totalled 3,776 and about 1,900 wounded. The contrast between Lap's figure of 200 and Nixon's of 3,000 is extremely striking. 
This information was referred to in the Melbourne 'Age' of 25th March 1968. It was reprinted from an American newspaper, the 'Observer". The Times' of London also published this information. So, it is a pity that the senior Minister to whom I have referred, whose integrity generally is accepted by members of the Opposition as beyond reproach, should mislead the House on this important question. I have quoted from this article out of sequence, but it contains the following comment: 
It is my contention, however, that the Americans, not the Vietcong, were responsible for most of the deaths in Hue and that pro-United States official sources have distorted the event to shift the blame for the carnage from themselves to the left wing side. They have blown the event up into a campaign so massive that even in the American left very few people have taken the trouble to investigate and check their statements. They have conveniently forgotten the damage caused by American bombing, and one almost gains the impression that they believe bombs and napalm do not kill people. Undoubtedly the Communists were responsible for some of the deaths, but very much fewer than Nixon would have us believe. Moreover, it seems to me extremely doubtful that the Communist killings in Hue are a necessary reflection of what would happen everywhere in Vietnam in the event of America getting out. 

 Dr Colin Mackerras, who I believe is a lecturer at the Australian National University, wrote the article from which I have quoted. I believe that the figures contained therein have been compiled fairly. I insisted on placing some of these facts on the parliamentary record tonight because members of the Labor Party, to my recollection, had not answered the particular emphasis that the senior Minister, in announcing Government policy on defence, put on this situation. He said, ia effect: 'I have films in my room and they would shock members of the Labor Party. They are films of the massive graves in Hue where hundreds of bodies were deposited as a result of the Vietcong's attack on this ancient city." 
I am prepared to say, with great respect to the senior Minister of the Government, that I have more faith in the fasts disclosed in these documents, of which I have given the House some of the details, than I have in the Minister's statement to the 
Parliament today in connection with these massive graves and mountains of bodies in Hue of which he holds films in his office. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. _ House adjourned all 11.5 p.m. 
asked the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
Does a widower, 70 to 80 years old, who is receiving a full age pension with no assets or other income, practically bedridden and residing with his daughter and son-in-law who receive less than the average wage, qualify for any other social service benefit or is his married daughter who cares for him entitled to some allowance for caring for her aged and invalided father. 
= I congratulate the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds)  on his forthright and informative address. The electors of Barton ' are very fortunate in having a person of his mentality and physical capacity to represent them. Prior to his address we heard the defeatist speech of the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay).  I interpreted his speech as virtually meaning 'that the Government is doomed and that the Labor Party will fill the Government benches after the next election. The honourable member expressed his disappointment when he mentioned that the Labor Party might introduce first past the post voting. My personal wish is that it will do so. I hope that it will outlaw the splinter parties that stand over governments and threaten to withdraw their second preferences from a government, as the Australian Democratic Labor Party has been doing for some years. It is high time the people of Australia were given a government that was not subject to the pressures exerted by splinter parties. 
It is my intention tonight to raise a local matter which is causing great concern to some of my electors. In this debate we have heard much about the aid we give to overseas countries. One supporter of the Government suggested that $50m be given immediately to the Government of Bangladesh toward relieving the starvation and poverty in that country. I think that the provision of some assistance is warranted. I have not been to Bangladesh or India but I understand that the extreme poverty there is appalling and tears at the hearts of Australian visitors. Yet we know that India has more cattle than any other country, and that people in India would sooner starve than slice a piece of beef off the hind quarters of those animals. To Australian people and others who think like them, such an attitude is a bit stupid. However, this behaviour is part of the effect of the dominance of the Hindu religion. One of the 4 freedoms set out in the Atlantic Charter is the freedom of worship. I hope that the Government does do something on an immense scale to relieve the suffering in Bangladesh. 
Recently the Public Works Committee approved a sewerage scheme for Tennant Creek - deserving and warranted - and it approved also an improved sewerage scheme at Katherine in the Northern Territory - again, deserving and warranted. I want to direct my remarks to the plight of the people of the little township of Wyee in the southern end of the Hunter electorate. It is known to most honourable members. Residents have been appealing to the local authorities to have their township connected to the water supply. They do not have water, let alone sewerage. The population is growing considerably. A water main has been laid within  H  to 2 miles of the town. However, the funds of the local council and the Hunter District Water Board are so depleted that they cannot provide water to the homes of these worthy Australian citizens. As the residents of Wyee drive past Lake Munmora and Vales Point power stations day after day, they see hoses which are in operation 24 hours a day to beautify the gardens around these establishments. Yet they do not have access to the regular water supply for their showers and laundry and washing up purposes. I think some priority should be given to these people. 
The local government authority has complained about not getting sufficient funds from the State Government. The State Government complains about getting insufficient funds from the Federal Government. While these arguments are going on the people of Wyee are being deprived of water for household needs. If a house in the town caught fire, there would be little possibility of putting out the flames. The problem is aggravated because there is a considerable amount of bushland in the area. As most honourable members know Wyee is situated only 3 miles from the Pacific Highway, which is the main road to Brisbane. It is on the main highway leading into the Hunter Valley. I appeal to the Government, if it is humanly possible, to make a special grant to the Hunter River Water Board so that water can be supplied to Wyee and the standard of living of the residents can be raised. 
I think it would be a worthwhile proposition to make a grant to the Lake Macquarie Shire Council, which is one of the most rapidly expanding councils in Australia today. The rate of expansion of a council is usually assessed by the number of building applications that are submitted to it. I understand that more building applications have been submitted to the Lake Macquarie Shire Council than any other council in Australia. The Lake Macquarie shire is a rather expansive shire. 
As the honourable member for Sydney reminds me, it is progressive. Because of its progress and the demands on revenues derived from rates, the shire is unable to allocate any funds for the reticulation of water to Wyee. The Government, in its desperation to stem unemployment, has made grants to certain local councils. But I understand that the Commonwealth Government has stipulated that the money has to be used on the type of work with the highest labour content. Such work would involve picking up papers. 
Yes, cutting grass, and the cleaning out of kerbs and gutters. I think that this is a foolish waste of Commonwealth money. It is a fictitious way of reducing the number of unemployed so that the Federal Government will be shown up in a favourable light for electoral purposes later this year. This money which is allocated, for example, to the Lake Macquarie Shire Council should have been used, I should imagine, in a more commonsense way, such as in the provision of a water supply to the little township of Wyee. 
There are SOO or 600 in the vicinity who do not have water. It is high time that the Government reconsidered its scheme. Instead of having men employed on high labour content jobs in the respective shires and allocating money for the sole purpose of reducing the number of unemployed men, this money and the men should be used for jobs that will be everlasting and more beneficial to a community such as the people of Wyee who so urgently need water to be installed to their little township. 
As a  deputy  whip I have always honoured my word to the Government whips, just as I have hoped that they would honour their word to me. I assured the  Deputy  Government Whip, the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles),  that I would not take more than 10 minutes of the 20 minutes allowed to me in this debate. I understood that the Government was anxious to adjourn this debate after I had spoken. With those few remarks about what is happening to the residents of Wyee, I leave it to the Government to give some consideration to aiding them in a practical and commonsense way. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Armitage)  adjourned. 
 I am prompted to take part in this debate as a result of the remarks of the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  and the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson).  I endorse the criticism of this legislation insofar as it states that a person shall not be. appointed as the  president  of the Commission unless he has not less than 5 years experience. Sub-clause (1a.) (c) reads: 
has, not less than five years previously, obtained a degree of a university or an educational qualification of a similar standard. . . J . 
 My mind goes back to the' time of the Chifley Government when there was considerable turbulence in the coal industry in this country, and particularly on- the northern coalfields where I was reared. The Chifley Government created what was known as the Local Coal Reference Board to deal expeditiously with minor disputes in the coal industry. The Chifley Government put into operation the principle that members of the Opposition in  particular have been emphasising tonight in criticising paragraph (c) of proposed sub-section (1a.) of section 7 of the Act. The Chifley Government appointed a practical miner, James Connell, as chairman of the Local Coal Reference Board. The respect in which he was held by all sections of mine workers, the fact that in civilian life he was a clean, decent living man with a deep knowledge of human beings, enabled him to do an excellent job as chairman of the Board and to solve many disputes that could ..have spread and become catastrophes in' a country hungry for coal. 
My late father, who was known to many of the older members in this House, told me that James Connell gave a decision as chairman of the Local Coal Reference Board which was appealed against by the colliery owners. Despite this man's ordinary formal education - or perhaps I: should say schooling - in the appeal to the High Court of Australia his decision was confirmed. There you get a practical substantiation of what is proposed by members of the Labor 
Party. 1 am pleased to hear the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  endorse generally the principle that it is not necessary to have academic persons in these responsible positions. 
Of course, for some time now I have been hearing people described as persons of poor education because they have made a slip in their vocabulary. I prefer to refer to some of the persons I know as people with a poor schooling but with a very high standard of education. Formal schooling finishes, in the main, when a person is between 15 and 17 years of age, and his education then starts. I know that if I were in an aeroplane that was forced down in the Simpson Desert and, on the one hand, an illiterate Aborigine said to me, 'There is a water hole over here' and, on the other hand, the greatest navigator in the world pulled out his instruments and said, 'No there is a water hole over there; come with me', I know which one I would follow - the man with the education and not the man with the schooling. 
For so long in the courts I listened to judges making summations to juries, as the honourable member for Moreton himself has often heard in practising his great skills as one of Queensland's leading criminal lawyers. A judge usually says to a jury, 'Gentlemen of the jury, retire and consider your verdict. I am not one to express an opinion on the facts of the case, for I have been reared among musty law books.' That sort of thing is common in summations by judges to juries, and occurs almost daily throughout New South Wales. Therefore I support the submission of the Labor Party that it is unnecessary to have a person with high academic qualifications in the position of  Deputy President  of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. 
&amp; A. Brown and Coal and Allied Industries, in former years the great monopolies in the coal industry in Australia, learned early that they could not successfully bring out mine managers from England, for those mine managers did not know the language of the Australian mine workers and did not understand that the mining methods applicable in England were not applicable in Australia. There were untold strikes because the mine managers could not get on with the men. Coal and Allied Industries realised that they would have to change their policy. They finished up training their own mine managers and bringing them up through the ranks. This solved a lot of the problems in the coal industry. I would like to see this provision withdrawn and the principles of the Labor Party implemented so that a person who knows men can attain this position in the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and it will not necessarily have to be occupied by what sometimes could be an educated idiot. 
I thank the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  for his great courtesy in allowing me to speak. I appreciate it immensely. I have been impelled to rise to my feet by the shocking remarks made by the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder).  In his speech to the Parliament on this very important legislation, which the Australian Labor Party has told the nation has been designed by a capitalistic, monopolistic, protective Government to oppress the workers of Australia, the honourable member for the Northern Territory repeatedly cast aspersions on the intellect of the waterside workers in Darwin. He suggested that they can be led by the nose, that they have no minds of their own and that they are led like a blind dog by a communist leader in the Waterside Workers Federation. But not one word came from the lips of the honourable member about the shocking exploitation of the Aborigines working on some of the cattle stations in the Northern Territory, which situation is coming to the notice of the educated people of the world today and is shaming this nation in the eyes of the world. 
The honourable gentleman, for whom I have had great respect in the past, during his 20-minute speech did not utter one word about the shocking exploitation of the Australian indigenous people. This country has never come to the brink of a revolution as has happened in the countries of Latin America where the trade union movement was oppressed and practically wiped out. I had the privilege of visiting the Latin American countries in 1962 when they were on the fringe of a revolution because the trade union movement was oppressed and not allowed to function. No honourable member in this House wants to see Australia go over to the type of rule that exists in fascist and communist countries. We should be grateful that this has not happened, and the only reason why it has not happened is because we have had a strong and effective trade union movement in Australia that is backed wholly and solely by the Australian Labor Party. 
Has the Minister for Immigration any idea of the number of deserters from foreign ships in Australian ports in the last 3 years and from which countries the deserters originated? Would the Minister tell me also whether it is not the normal practice for a captain of a foreign ship before sailing to report missing a crewman to the responsible Customs official who, in turn, reports the incident to the immigration authorities and State police, who endeavour to effect the arrest of the deserter by warrant with a view to his deportation? Would the Minister explain why the normal procedure was not adopted regarding a ship's deserter from the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics? Was it correctly reported that the Minister recently granted political asylum to a ship's deserter from the Soviet Union because he did not want to return to his nagging wife? Does the Minister consider that his actions were in the best interests of diplomatic relations between this country and the Soviet Union? 
I wish to say, as a member of the Public Works Committee, that the Committee has fully investigated the need for the alterations to the Royal Australian Army Service Corps Centre at Puckapunyal. The Committee received written submissions and drawings from the Department of the Army and the Commonwealth Department of Works, and also took evidence on oath at the hearing at Puckapunyal from representatives of those departments and of the Seymour Shire Council which expressed wishes which have been satisfied by the Department of the Army. Written submissions also were presented to the Public Works Committee by private persons, but this did not create any difficulties for the Committee. Members of the Committee inspected the existing facilities at the Puckapunyal military area and the sites for the proposed buildings. 
The Puckapunyal military area occupies about 43,000 acres of Commonwealth land near Seymour, 60 miles from Melbourne. It is the home of the Royal Australian Army Service Corps and is the headquarters for the Puckapunyal area. In 1964 this Government approved the construction of accommodation for the new infantry battalion at Puckapunyal, following the introduction of national service training, to which my Party from time to time has expressed opposition. Regretfully, it was at about that time that the Government involved this nation in the Vietnam war. The quarters have been substandard - as most of the Army, Air Force and Navy establishments have been, being of World War II vintage - for far too long. I believe that the antiquated buildings which the defence forces have had to tolerate have not been conducive to encouraging persons to take up a military career so that we would not have to depend on conscription, which 1 believe is the desire of most Australians. 
The lecture rooms at Puckapunyal, as was established by sworn evidence and by the Committee's view of the area, are not conducive to efficient training. In some cases proper training facilities at Puckapunyal are non-existent. The catering wing of the school is split between Puckapunyal and Bonegilla which is 140 miles away from the proposed new buildings at Puckapunyal. Members of the Army are forced to use the extremely crowded class rooms which are unhygienic and generally unsuitable for such use. The 109 Supply Depot platoon has a variety of storage facilities of temporary construction, 8,500 square feet of which is covered accommodation. Supplies cannot be palletised as loading ramps and floors are structurally unsound for fork lift operations. Due to lack of space, Southern Command reserve supplies have to be stored in leased accommodation in Melbourne. These are only some of the reanons why the Committee was able easily to reach a decision in connection with the matter now before the House, which is the approval of this proposed work. 
Representations were made by the Seymour Shire Council to the Committee concerning the Seymour/Tooborac and Ford roads leading from the Hume Highway to the Puckapunyal area. The Council pointed out the unsafe nature of sections of these roads caused principally by the heavy traffic to which they are subjected. A large portion of this traffic is generated by the Puckapunyal military area, and generally the Council does not receive any special funds for road maintenance and new works beyond those which might be expected to be received for normal country roads. The Committee noted with a degree of pleasure the undertaking by the Department of the Army to support an application by the Council for a special allocation of Comonwealth money for major road improvement works to roads serving the military area, thus minimising the proaccident area which arises from time to time. It was very comforting for the Committee to ascertain that the requests made by the Seymour Shire Council would be met by the Department of the Army. I believe that far too often Army establishments have long needed to be uplifted to the standard to which it is hoped, on the recommendations in the report of the Public Works Committee, the Puckapunyal estabishment will be uplifted. I am sure that the House will be in agreement with that. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
1 am privileged to participate in this Budget debate. Before entering into a discussion of what I consider to be the most important aspects of this Budget I want to make brief reference to some of the comments made by members of the Government parties who have spoken in this debate in the last day or so. The honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett),  whose personal integrity is highly regarded by honourable members on this side of the House, spoke of wrangling in the Labor Party because of a statement made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  on the upward revaluation of the Australian dollar. I understand, though 1 have not given a good deal of thought to it, that this was a personal opinion expressed by the Leader of the Opposition when questioned about revaluation. The Leader of the Opposition readily succumbs to majority decisions in the party room and practises true democracy in that field. The honourable member for Maranoa makes no reference to the fighting and wrangling within the ranks of the Liberal-Country Party coalition about the intended development of a rural bank. There is bitter and strong opposition in the Liberal ranks to the Country Party's domination of decision making in this particular field. I challenge any member of the Government to deny that statement. 
I fear that the honourable member for Maranoa has been participating in too many witchety grub eating contests and viewing too many lizard races in his electorate in the outback of western Queensland. He should get down to the realities of what is going on. Yesterday the honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley)  made one of the frankest confessions that has been made in this Parliament for some time. The honourable member who succeeded that distinguished Australian, the late  Sir Wilfrid  Kent Hughes, when speaking in the Budget debate used these words which are attributed to him at page  804  of Hansard: 
Without doubt, it will get the country going again. There are many signs-- 
The honourable member for Angas says 'hear, hear'. The passage in Hansard goes on:  that confidence is returning to the Australian economy. There have been many recent economic indicators of the fact that confidence is returning to the economy. 
Who created this chaotic state of affairs? The Government which has been in power for almost  23  years has created it. The Government frankly admits that public confidence in it has slumped to an all-time low. What a confession to make. I must congratulate the honourable member for Chisholm on his frankness. 
Obviously the truth slipped out. The honourable member for Angas again says 'hear, hear'. He has been a member of this Parliament for a lot longer than has the honourable member for Chisholm, and he has participated in bungling the affairs of the country, a situation which the honourable member for Chisholm so readily admitted yesterday. The honourable member for Maranoa has suggested that the Leader of the Opposition should resign. What a sigh of relief would go up from members of the Government parties if the Leader of the Opposition did resign. They would be able to sleep peacefully in their beds, because the first time the Leader of the Opposition led the Labor Party to the electorate he captured  17  or  18  seats from the ToryCountry Party Government. That is why they want him to resign. They know the writing is on the wall. They know that they are about to incur political annihilation at the hands of the electorate. The Budget under debate is the effort of a demoralised, dying Government clutching at straws like a drowning man does. Honourable members opposite are trying to save the old coalition boat. The old Liberal-Country Party ship is sinking. The Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  and the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  are running around with inferior putty trying to plug the holes. The ship is waterlogged. She is sinking. She has no buoyancy tanks. I tell honourable members that the old mixed marriage is breaking up as mixed marriages invariably do. 
The Government is handing out a few crumbs to pensioners and some small tax concessions in the hope that it may be reprieved by the people of Australia at the next Federal election from the political scaffold. Through bungling, internal fighting and sadistic jealousy the present Government is a government with a cabinet in exile. Will the measures proposed by this Government remove the economic ills of the nation which have been suffered for so long? We of the Opposition say affirmatively no. Unemployment continues to grow. The unemployment figures in Newcastle and the Hunter electorate have reached saturation point. The position of the coal industry in Newcastle and the. Hunter electorate is more acute than it has been for many years. The few remaining coal mines operating are threatened with closure. Homes, public property like hospitals and schools, and the ruination of coal seams are threatened. The future education of children - which touches me more than anything - is in jeopardy. I consider that this is the most important factor of all. The Government has failed repeatedly to implement a national fuel policy to control the orderly marketing of our export coal. The Government by its attitude has allowed international consortiums like Utah Development Co. and the Mitsubishi interests - who have formed a multinational consortium known as Central Queensland Coal Associates - to dominate the export coal industry of this nation. The Government's action is virtually bringing about the closure of townships in coal mining areas. This has caused great consternation to my colleagues from the South Coast area of New South Wales such as the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  who has forcefully spoken on this matter during special debates and the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor),  because the matters to which T have referred have affected their areas, their townships and their people. 
Open cut coal is invariably close to the surface and can be mined more cheaply than underground coal. There is a growing imbalance between open cut coal mining and underground mining, particularly in Queensland where the Queensland CountryLiberal Party Government allows international consortiums to go on their happy way unmolested and ungoverned. In 1970-71 underground coal mined in Queensland amounted to 3,449,000 tons. Open cut coal mined was almost double that figure at 7,498,000 tons. The total amount mined was 10,974,000 tons. In New South Wales where the Joint Coal Board has some jurisdiction over the production of coal under the Joint Coal Board legislation operated by the Commonwealth and New South Wales governments there is an entirely different set of figures. In New South Wales for the year 1970-71 underground coal produced amounted to 32,608,000 tons and open cut coal produced amounted to 2,547,000 tons, making a total of 35,155,000 tons. 
In Queensland it is expected that in the next 2 years the ratio of coal from underground mines will be only 20 per cent of total production. Eighty per cent will come from open cut mines. Does this not mean that international consortiums are going to rip - if I may use the vernacular - the very guts out of the coal industry, getting cheap coal at a quick profit for overseas investors. The savagery of open cut coal mining because it temporarily offers big profits to international consortiums should be repelled and controlled by the implementation of a national fuel policy. For many years the Australian Labor Party has been protesting to the Government about the uncontrolled flow of foreign investment into this country. I hope in the next few minutes to reveal some astounding figures with respect to overseas investors, particularly the investments of the United States of America in various countries of the world. I remember that in 1964 the former honourable member for Scullin,  Mr Ted  Peters, who at that time had written a booklet on this subject, protested to the Commonwealth Government at the domination of Australian industries and our economy by overseas investors. After years of protesting by the Australian Labor Party the Government now is showing some interest in this matter. The former Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Higgins,  (Mr Gorton)  could see the dangers that were being exemplified by the Australian Labor Party and he advocated that guidelines should be adopted with respect to foreign investment. He obstructed the takeover of the Mutual Life and Citizens Insurance Co. by overseas investors. Of course, we know that he was criticised by the Liberal hawks who guide and manage the Liberal Party machine in this country. They demand that he be replaced because he was interfering with foreign investors. 
I wish to spell out to the Parliament the views of 2 Harvard economists on United States investment overseas. They are Thomas Weisskoff and Frank Ackerman who computed figures from United States Government data to show that the rate of profit on private foreign investment by American corporations has consistently exceeded their return on domestically invested capital. These economists state that from 1950 through to 1969, after tax profits on domestic capital fluctuated between 6.3 per cent in 1961 and 9 per cent in 1951, with the exception of the 11.1 per cent rate in 1950. The rate of after tax profits on foreign investment reached a peak of 17.3 per cent in 1951 and averaged 11 per cent to 12 per cent through the 1960s, which was nearly twice the level of domestic profitability. 
On top of that, Weisskoff and Ackerman point out that the share of total corporate profits derived from foreign operations has been climbing steadily. In the early 1950s, foreign earnings constituted between 7 per cent and 11 per cent of all corporate profits. By the late 1960s, 14 per cent to 18 per cent of all corporate profits were coming from overseas operations. Can we not truly say that Australia is being used in the same way as other countries are being used? American foreign capital is dominating the economies of these countries and they are being used virtually as milking cows for the United States investors on Wall Street. Moreover, there are 2 sources of understatement in the statistics of these 2 forthright economics. I refer to the statistics of profitability on direct investments. Firstly, profits made by overseas affiliates, these economists say, are affected by deductions for exploration and depletion costs, especially in the oil industry. This is something of which most Australians are aware. These profits are affected also by artifically high prices paid for inputs purchased from parent companies in the United States. The 2 Harvard economists mention also that there are strong indications that for the 200 or so corporations which increasingly determine the state of health of the economy, foreign profits are decidedly more important than those reflected in the statistical averages, impressive though they are in their own right. 
For example, in 1970 the International Business Machines company - the organisation which is spreading its computers throughout the world, particularly to Australia where it has a firm footing - earned over half of its net profits from external operations. During 1970, the  Chairman  of IBM, Thomas J. Watson, stated that more of IBM's profit was derived outside than inside the United States, and that this was a most exciting turning point in the history of IBM. For both the National Cash Register organisation and the Gillette company, 51 per cent of total profits were generated abroad. The Dow chemicals organisation, a supplier for the germicidal and herbicidal war in Vietnam, to its everlasting disgrace, made 44 per cent of its profits overseas; Goodyear 43 per cent; Revlon, a company well known to the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson),  because it has earmaked certain land on the south coast of New South Wales, 40 per cent; Johnson and Johnson 36 per cent; Otis Elevator 35 per cent; Union Carbide 29 per cent; General Electric 21 per cent; and General Motors, which has a big share of the Australian motor industry, 19 per cent. Other companies with high foreign profit ratios were Armco Steel; Alcoa, which is well known in Australia; Bucyrus-Erie, Eaton Yale and Towne: Colgate Palmolive, the old 'PickaBox' show; Proctor and Gamble; Polaroid; International Harvester; Caterpillar Tractor; Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing; Uniroyal; National Biscuit; Eastman Kodak; Chrysler; Ford; Pfizer; Singer; Woolworths; and all the international petrol companies. 
Recently the international oil companies almost brought this nation to a stop sooner than see the workers who helped them to make their lucrative profits receive a just and fair wage. Government supporters blamed that situation on the unions, but the unionists were fighting for justice and a respectable wage to pay off expensive homes and land, to rear and educate their children and to ensure them a decent footing in their own country. I have not mentioned the celebrated ITT conglomerate - International Telephone and Telegraph Corporation - the extensive overseas operations of which have involved it waist deep in foreign politics from Chile to the Common Market countries. Former Belgian Prime Minister Paul Spaak is one of the fathers of ITT and a board member of ITT in the United States of America. 
For the major banks, too, the proportion of deposits, loans and earnings acquired through foreign branches is large and is increasing. Among the few large banks with substantial earnings gains in 1971, according to the magazine 'American Banker', higher profits were derived largely from increases in their international earnings, reflecting the large rise in total assets and liabilities of United States branches in foreign countries. They rose from $47 billion at the start of 1971 to almost $57 billion at the end of September 1971. This is United States international imperialism to which the late Lord Russell of Britain referred not long before he died by naming it as the greatest threat to world peace amongst all countries in the world. 
Richard Wolff, an economist of Columbia University, New York, has found that by late 1970 from 26 per cent to 46 per cent of all deposits of the 8 biggest New York banks was foreign. Chase Manhattan, David Rockefeller Foundation, Standard Oil and the First National City Bank, the leading international banks, had from 40 per cent to 46 per cent of their total deposits overseas. The Government is at the end of its tether. The people of Australia are demanding that a true Australian government take over the Treasury bench of this Parliament to legislate in the interests of all Australians. I believe: It's time. 
As a member of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works I might mention that the Committee has visited the Tennant Creek area and made preliminary examinations, interviewed the townspeople and visited the site of the proposed power station. I honestly believe that there is a need for this work because Peko-Wallsend Ltd has been expanding in that area as has the township and there is a bigger drain than ever on the power resources generated by Peko-Wallsend which has been the supplier of electricity to the township of Tennant Creek. The company has advised the local authorities that after 1974 it will no longer be able to supply power to the township of Tennant Creek. This makes clear the need for a power station. My only regret is that the power station is to be fuelled with imported oil instead of Australian indigenous coal. 
Coal could be got there if the Government were sincere about how the station should be fuelled. The question of whether it is difficult to get coal there should be secondary to the provision of employment in the coal industry. Australian indigenous fuel always should, if possible, have a priority over foreign oil. The argument used by the Government is the urgent need for this work to proceed. 1 support the motion irrespective of the political gains the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  is trying to derive from the matter. 
1 think that every honourable member who knows the honourable member for the Australian 
Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  would endorse everything that he said. He drives himself to the point where I often wonder how his physical resources stand up to the amount of work that he piles on himself. My main reason for rising is to put emphasis in this debate on the estimates for the Parliament on the need for a ministry of sport in this country. Every member of Parliament and every Australian should be proud of our achievements at the Olympic Games which have just concluded. This country with just on 13 million people won 8 gold medals and finished fifth or sixth among the countries of the world. One State has recently created a Ministry of Sport with a ministerial salary of $12,500 a year. I believe that the Commonwealth should show leadership in this important matter. 
For some considerable time this afternoon the Parliament debated the matter of the 35-hour week. I think that the matter of establishing as soon as possible a ministry of sport should take up more time than the debate on the 35-hour week took up this afternoon. We all know, or should know, about the growth of child delinquency throughout our country. It is not only applicable here but is also applicable in most of the Western countries. The Parliament has an obligation to reduce this shocking social evil, and what is a better way of reducing child delinquincy than by the Government creating a ministry of sport? With reduced working hours there will be more idle time for the people of this nation, the working people. 
Yes, about the creation of a ministry of sport which, I understand, is applicable and appropriate to this debate. I can see nothing that would be more effective in reducing the problem of child delinquency than the Parliament creating a ministry of sport and subsidising sporting bodies, particularly for the first 5 years of their existence. The Government could give them a subsidy of $1 for $1 or $2 for $1, even if a ceiling was put on it of $50 or $100 in each 12 months for the first 5 years of their existence. The honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  who represents my neighbouring electorate has shown great interest in this social question and has done considerable research on the matter of the Parliament creating a ministry of sport. He has pointed out that the physical fitness and wellbeing of a nation lis important to the health and ultimate happiness of its people, its level of affluence, education and cultural attainments and its technical and scientific achievements. Some of the nations that place high importance on the creation of a ministry of sport are the United Kingdom, France, Canada and South Africa. Here we are, prominent and known throughout the world for our sporting achievements, and we have not given serious consideration to creating a ministry of sport. I hope that all honourable members will realise the importance of creating this new ministerial post. for the wellbeing of our citizens. Between 1958 and 1970 France, for instance, planned to build 5,130 athletic centres, 2,620 gymnasiums- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Scholes)  - Order! I suggest that the honourable member should debate the estimates which are before the Chair. 
What I am debating are the estimates for the Parliament and T am suggesting that Parliament should create a ministry of sport. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- I am aware of that. 
You listened with great tolerance,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  to other honourable members who- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member will resume his seat while I am speaking. I suggest that the honourable member should debate the estimates for the Parliament. There is a separate set of estimates for the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. 
I am suggesting that these estimates should provide for the creation of a ministry of sport, and I hope that that keeps me in order with the subject matter. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  - It does, as long as the honourable member does not debate the actual way in which such  a  ministry would operate. 
Thank you,  Mr Assistant  Whip, for your loyal support. I think it is vitally important that this Cabinet position should be created, for some of the reasons I have stated. With the shorter working week and for the purpose of reducing child delinquency it would play a most important part. I believe that there is nothing more satisfying to a parent than to see his son or daughter indulging in healthy sport. There is an old saying that the wheels of democracy grind very slowly, but I hope that from time to time this matter will continue to be raised and that the Government will give serious consideration, when reviewing the estimates for the Parliament, to creating a ministry of sport which I believe will meet with the approval of every honest, decent, public spirited Australian. 
I support this motion with a great deal of pride and enthusiasm. In the 6 years that I have been a member of the Public Works Committee I cannot recall the Committee's showing such a deep interest in a reference before it. I think the members of the Committee were truly reflecting the interest of the Australian people expressed a few years ago their vote in a referendum proposal put to them by the Government, by which they expressed concern for the uplifting of the standards of the Aboriginal people. The inquiry by the Public Works Committee was very lengthy. The Committee's  Chairman,  the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly),  who is known for his devotion to his task, worked us almost to. breaking point When the inquiry was held in Darwin, on some nights we did not finish taking evidence until after 10 o'clock. 
The Australian people should be proud of achievements in the higher education field for the Aboriginal people through Kormilda College. It certainly did want uplifting. It was one of the most dilapidated buildings ever to be inspected by the Public Works Committee. Many parts of it were riddled with white ants. It was an old Army building and I think that all Australians would have been embarrassed had visitors from overseas seen the dilapidated condition of the building in which Aborigines were being educated. 
The proposal involves the construction of new buildings at Kormilda College to provide residential and educational facilities. As the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  has just said, these facilities are for 310 male and female Aboriginal students preparing for secondary education or undertaking 3-year post-primary courses. Some evidence was given to the Committee which made it difficult for the Committee to reach its conclusions. We welcomed conflicting opinions given in sworn evidence before us. There was merit in many of the opinions expressed to us by studious and wise people. 
We had evidence from Miss Sommerlad of the Australian National University who had done a 12-month study of the way of life of Aborigines, particularly at Kormilda College. Her opinions conflicted with those of representatives of the Northern Territory Welfare Branch. 
Evidence was also given by  Mr WesleySmith,  a very enterprising young fellow who shows a deep interest in community affairs in the Northern Territory and throughout Australia. He is an agronomist with the Department of Agriculture in the Northern Territory. I thought his evidence was rich in merit. He suggested that resort be had to different educational practices. He was not opposed in any way to the rebuilding or modernisation of the College. Miss Sommerlad believed, as did all witnesses before the Committee, that the uplifting of Kormilda College would be beneficial to the education of the Aboriginal people. The main conflict before the Committee concerned the educational training methods for Aborigines.  Mr Wesley-Smith  pointed out that there should be greater encouragement and greater use of Aboriginal teaching students. He said that they should be used at all levels in the educational programme and, in that event, he wanted to know where the appropriate accommodation had been planned in the new buildings. 
While we might agree that it was an interesting and intelligent submission we are cognisant of the fact that a ceiling must be placed on the expenditure, no matter what is the project.  Mr Wesley-Smith  was suggesting the provision of accommodation for the families of Aboriginal teaching students. I hope that one day, if it is found that the employment of Aboriginal teaching students as teachers at Kormilda College is a step in the right direction, provision will then be made to house their wives and children.  Mr Wesley-Smith  was supported in his view by  Mr Bruce  MacKenzie, a director of the Young Men's Christian Association at Darwin. 

 Mr Wesley Smith also referred to the work of Japanese Professor Mazrui, a world authority on education who teaches children of 4 years of age to play the violin.  Mr Wesley-Smith  emphasised that the basis of the professor's success lay in teaching the mothers of the children to play the violin. 
He related that point to housing the parents of the students at the college or in its immediate precincts. However, the estimated cost of the project is S3. 3m and that could be doubled if all the recommendations of the witnesses which conflicted with the views of the Welfare Branch were implemented. All members of the Committee were concerned with the cost. 
Committee members also expressed concern with the problem of plural marriages in the Territory. The honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson),  perhaps could place greater emphasis on that aspect. He was interested in the moral degradation of young girls who attend Kormilda College, return to the missions and become virtually victims of the lust of elderly Aborigines. As a father of daughters I regard that problem very seriously. The Welfare Branch is trying to discourage this practice but I think more vigorous efforts could be employed to abolish it. 
I do not believe it is. It is certainly not dying out to the extent that the Committee would like to have seen and it caused us some concern. Other members of the Committee are probably waiting to speak to this motion. This is a step in the right direction. The Committee welcomes the raising of the standard of the buildings. I personally want to go on record as congratulating the Government for what it is doing in this regard. I think the whole of the Australian people would be behind the Government in the spending of this S3. 3m to upgrade Kormilda College at Darwin. 
Does the Prime Minister agree that a sentence of 18 months hard labour with release after 10 or 12 months for offenders convicted of political bombings of foreign buildings in Australia when people are resident in those buildings is appropriate or that it lacks the deterrent effect on others that court penalties for serious crimes are mainly intended to have? If he disagrees with light penalties, will be confer with his colleague, the Attorney-General, with a view to amending the law so that a more appropriate penalty will be fixed by the courts in an effort to eradicate this un-Australian and heinous type of crime? I suggest the fixing of a minimum lagging of 5 years. 
-! am happy to associate myself with this expediency motion. From the records of the Public Works Committee, I think one can say that this is the first occasion that the Committee has examined the same scheme 3 times. It first heard evidence on the scheme in Darwin and on 2 other occasions it returned to Darwin to review the evidence. This was brought about because of the controversy existing among the witnesses. They were experts and academic witnesses and it is healthy, I think for a democracy to have such a controversy among people so qualified to express their opinion. To some extent, it left the members of the Committee in a state of bewilderment in trying to decide on which expert's evidence it should put more credence. There is no doubt that you have been in the same position yourself.  Mr Speaker,  during your lifetime. 
The honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  should feel proud that this up to date, modern sewerage scheme will be implemented at Darwin. I am not saying that the people of Darwin are not worthy of such a scheme but they will have a sewerage scheme that you  Mr Speaker,  would certainly like to have in your electorate in Bondi. I had in mind when the Committee was crossexamining the witnesses the controversy that has been aroused in the Press from time to time in regard to the pollution of the sea at Bondi and of that beautiful beach. 
No. When the Committee was cross-examining  Mr Jones,  the expert Australian and world wide authority on hydraulics whom the Public Works Committee called before it, I asked him to what degree pollution existed in the waters of Bondi and the waters of the Darwin Harbour. As you undoubtedly know,  Mr Speaker  - I know you are concerned about it - the waters of Bondi are polluted many more times than the waters of the Darwin Harbour will be in the next 20 years. 
Yes, it is raw sewage. This appalled me and I do not mind telling whoever in the Parliament wants to know where I stood on this matter. I stood firmly on the view that the sewerage should be pumped over a sandbank into Darwin harbour. Although I had to accept the majority opinion of the Committee, I am still convinced that if the treated water were pumped over the sandbank quite a distance out into the Darwin harbour - many of the experts put this view - there would be no pollution of the waters of Darwin harbour. There was a lot of resentment from lay people who said that this would not do and that it was likely to cause hepatitis. I believe that the possibility of contracting disease from the Darwin harbour, had the sewage been put over the sand bank, would have been as remote as that of my flying to the moon. However, the subsequent decision of the Committee, that the sewage be pumped into Ludmilla Swamp, seemed to satisfy public opinion. I still think that it would have been quite safe to pump it into Darwin harbour. Of course, Darwin harbour is not lashed by gales, as Bondi, which is in your electorate,  Mr Speaker,  and other areas along the east coast of Australia are. 
The honourable member for Dawson reminds me about February. I have never been there in February. People tell me that it is not a pleasant place to visit in February. However, for the other 11 months of the year it is not lashed by gales. This would give a lay person the opinion that the Darwin harbour could be more vulnerable to pollution than the sea off Bondi is. I think that the Darwin people, whilst they are good people in many respects, like to have a bit of a bitch now and again - if I may use the vernacular - and they do not hesitate to have a bark either if they think they are not getting a fair go. They say that there is government of Australia by remote control in Canberra. But 1 oan assure the people of Darwin that they are getting more than a fair go. There are many parts of my electorate that I believe have a higher priority for a more modern sewerage scheme than they have. I would say that the Darwin people have the most modern sewerage scheme of any city in Australia commensurate with its population. So they ought to ease down a bit on their barking and bitching and think how damned lucky they are. 
I rise in the debate on the estimates for the Attorney-General's Department to discuss a different matter to that which has already been discussed so far. I believe it is a matter with which the Australian community has been deeply concerned for many years. Recently Battle of Britain celebrations were conducted in Australia and we were reminded of the historical words of the late  Sir Winston  Churchill. In referring to members of the Royal Air Force he said: 'Never before in the field of human conflict has so much been owed by so many to so few'. 1 want to apply those words to the impositions made by certain members of the legal profession through divorce costs and I hope for the benefit of the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  to develop that theme in the short time available to me. I wish to apply Churchill's words to certain members of Parliament insofar as I say that never before in the field of legal conflict has so much been owed by so few to o many. 
It has been reported that today .some people are using do-it-yourself divorce kits, proving to the community that they can obtain a divorce at a total cost of about  $30.  I have the honour to sit in this Parliament behind the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby),  one of the most eminent Queen's Counsel in the country. He made sacrifices to come to the Parliament. When he was speaking the Minister at the table was one of the most eminent Queen's Counsel that Sydney has produced -  Mr Nigel  Bowen, Q.C., the Minister for Foreign Affairs. What pains me is that we very seldom hear from eminent members of this Parliament about the exorbitant divorce costs which unfortunate Australians must pay in order to disentangle the complications of their lives. They have to continue to pay, down through the years. 
Tt is well known that the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  earned great credit for himself by recommending an inquiry by a Senate committee into our divorce laws. He referred to a defended divorce case in which one party to his knowledge had to pay costs of about $34,000. How ridiculous that is.  Mr Justice  Selby, the Chief Judge in Divorce in New South Wales, is on record as saying on 9th June that Commonwealth legal aid should be provided in some divorce cases. I think that the advice of such an outstanding jurist as  Mr Justice  Selby should be heeded by the Commonwealth. In the Brisbane 'Courier-Mail' of 7th August  a  prominent person wrote: 
The Queensland  public at  present is being denied access to the law and  its  remedies . . . This leads  to  a situation where there is one law for the rich . . . and one for the poor. 
He was referring particularly to divorce. The 'National Times' of 28th February also referred to divorce. I am a little hesitant to quote the article concerned because it might induce more lawyer members of Parliament to leave Parliament and resume their legal careers. The 'National Times' said: 
Defended cases cost more money and this is  a  good reason why so many cases are undefended. For court appearances solicitors charge $10 an hour, barristers $180 a day, and  QCs  start at $200 a day, ranging up to $500 a day. 
That is not bad sugar. It makes you laugh,  Mr Deputy Chairman.  The article went on: 
A defended case lasts at least one day, frequently 5 and occasionally longer. 
I notice that the honourable member for McPherson  (Mr Barnes)  is smiling. Sammy Howard or Georgie Moore would not charge him anything like that to ride 'Tails'. The article went on: 
The complete costs for both sides, including the fees of two Ocs, junior barristers and solicitors, could reach more than $1,700 a day. Legal aid is subject to a means test. 
That sometimes arises, too, but the police price is always a lot smaller than that of some trade union leaders who get mixed up in a little graft. The honourable member is going a little red. The article in the 'National Times' refers to a divorce case which had cost one party $34,000 before the charges were taxed. I think it is time that the Commonwealth Parliament gave a lead in this field. Most honourable members know of unfortunate divorce cases. I know of cases in which decent women whose marriages have broken up have approached a legal officer and he has said: Go away and get a bit more money and we will start.' They have had to pawn some of their most cherished worldly possessions. 
I do not want to humiliate the honourable member for Hindmarsh. He is a pal of mine but he is sticking his neck out and asking for it. I do not want to have to deal with him. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Cope)  - Order! The honourable member will address the Chair. 
The Attorney-General administers the Commonwealth Police. Force. A recent case prompted me to think that the Commonwealth police should be used more to investigate the types of people who are migrating to Australia. I have in mind particularly the awful episode of the bombing in Sydney. Only a year or two ago an illiterate and unskilled Calabrian migrated to Australia.  His  name is Dominic Iorfino He was given permission to migrate to Australia with his wife and 8 children. He parted from his wife and was unable to keep the children. An article states that the Department of Immigration deservedly has a red face about the case which hit the headlines recently when lorfino was unable to support his family. It goes on to say that the publishers are willing to bet that the Iorfino family and the Department of Immigration officials dealing with the case were of a certain religious faith and that this may have involved circumvention. The article suggests that a certain religious organisation may have applied pressure. If that is so, it is not to the credit of that organisation in helping to circumvent the immigration laws. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable gentleman's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
How many arrests were made, at the dme of the visit of Vice President Spiro Agnew to Canberra, by the 3 segments of Commonwealth law enforcers, viz.: (a) the Australian Capital Territory Police, (b) the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation and (c) the Commonwealth Police. 
How many charges were laid against al] accused. 
How many convictions were sustained. 
How many accused pleaded not guilty. 
How many accused were sentenced to imprisonment. 
How many (a) plain clothes policemen and (b) uniformed policemen testified in the contested cases. 
How many (a) uniformed policemen and (b) plain clothes policemen were on duty at the scene at the time the demonstrations and arrests took place. 
Have all the cases been finalised. 

 - Mr Speaker, I join with other members of this House in congratulating you on your election to your very high position as the person in charge of the proceedings within this House. Your great attributes,  Mr Speaker,  for which you are known - being able to hear courteously, answer wisely and consider soberly and above all act impartially - will undoubtedly cause you to measure up to the standards of the greatest Speakers that ever this honourable Parliament has had. I similarly congratulate the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  who has been appointed  Chairman  of Committees and  Deputy Speaker  and who, I believe, will similarly discharge his duties. He too will be long remembered for his impartiality and skill in the discharge -of his duties as  Deputy Speaker  and  Chairman  of Committees. 
I also congratulate new members on their maiden speeches. Many good contributions have been made by new members from both sides of this House. These honourable members have enjoyed, as we all enjoyed when we made our maiden speeches, the absence of interjections when making their maiden speeches. No longer will they enjoy that privilege. But I have no doubt that they will be able to handle the situation that some of us older boys have had to accept. I congratulate the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  on his maiden speech, not so much for what he said but for the manner in which he delivered it. I hope that he will emulate the principles of his predecessor,  Sir Reginald  Swartz, who had the respect of all members of this House for the many years during which he was a member. But I think the honourable member for Darling Downs was rather extravagant in his praise of the Premier of Queensland,  Mr Bjelke-Peterson  who, if I recall correctly, is the man who sees no evil or nothing improper in his Cabinet Ministers taking out shares from time to time in private companies which are connected with areas on which his Government has to deliberate and legislate. This is something that the Labor Party would never permit. 
As the honourable member for Lilley said, the Premier is an expert in rackets but never plays tennis. The honourable member for Darling Downs also failed to point out that the Premier of Queensland introduced legislation prohibiting the people of the City of Brisbane the opportunity to elect their own mayor democractically, when every other shire or local government body in Queensland has the right and privilege to elect its own  president  or mayor. 
I would say so. I would like the honourable member for Darling Downs to have expressed some concern about the closing down of the railway depot at Warwick some time ago which resulted in about 104 railway employees having to find other employment. If the honourable member could not have done anything about it he should at least have expressed some sympathy. 
The honourable member is new here and will have to learn that he may not interject while he is out of his seat. I wish to make some remarks about the right honourable member for Bruce  (Mr Snedden),  the alternative Prime Minister, who is commonly known in my electorate as Wacky Mackie Snedden. 
Thank you,  Mr Speaker;  I will endeavour to conform with your ruling. Just before the suspension of the sitting for dinner tonight the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  levelled a tirade attacking the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the  Deputy  Prime Minister. Among other things the Leader of the Opposition said that the Labor Party is dictated to by other influences within the Party and outside the Party. He put great emphasis on this point,  Mr Speaker,  as you are undoubtedly aware. He went on to say that the people's elected representatives should be the sole deciders of legislation and government policy. This is what he said, as Hansard will prove tomorrow. But the Leader of the Opposition, Janus-like, has 2 faces, and speaks with 2 tongues. The Townsville 'Daily Bulletin' of 5th March contains an item about the right honourable gentleman. The report is headed: 'Pledge by Snedden'. It states: 
The Federal Opposition Leader  (Mr B. M. Snedden)  has pledged the Federal Parliamentary Liberal Party to pay more heed to the party membership, 
The report continues: 
He was answering the Victorian Liberal Party  president (Mr Philip Russell). 

 Mr Russell' said; 'Our Parliamentary representatives must listen more closely to what the ordinary party members are saying to them.' 
He said: 'Lel your fall from power sting you into the realisation that you win only succeed if you listen to us mora closely in the future. 
Then there is the pledge from Billy Mackie Snedden, now the Leader of the Opposition. He said:  1 am determined while I am Leader of the Federal Party it will never be said with justification again that we did not listen to the broader Party. 
We need an input of the attitudes, values and expertise available to us in the party. 
What temerity on the. part of honourable members opposite before dinner to level savage criticism at the Australian Labor Party because it listens to all ranks in its party, respects all ranks but bows down to nobody. This is the Party that is now steering Australia on another legislative course. It is a course which will make a stronger and stronger impression on the minds of the Australian people. Much criticism has been levelled by honourable members on the other side of the House. My colleague, the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham),  who last year in Malawi so diplomatically and skilfully represented this country and the previous Government as a delegate to the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association Conference, referred in his speech today 7 times within 7 minutes to the. People's Republic of China. What a change from the time when supporters of the previous Government were on this side of the House. 
It used to be Red China. They used to say that the Chinese would be landing on Bondi Beach. I remember one night when I was speaking in this House the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  who is not in the chamber said: 'You want to stop them at Lake Burley Griffin'. Is it any wonder that the former member for Warringah, that dignified and honest politician,  Mr St  John, said that the Liberals fell from office because of their lies, their subterfuge and their falsity to the Australian people? 
They lied and lied and lied, as the honourable member for Chifley so effectively pointed out the other night. They fell from office because they lost the confidence of the Australian people, because they could not get away any more with their lies about Vietnam and the People's Republic of China. Before I pass from this subject of the People's Republic of China, what did the Victorian Minister for Tourism,  Mr Byrne,  say according to today's Press? He had much praise for the People's Republic of China. On his return a day or two ago from a visit to China he shouted high praise and said that China is going to regard Australia, from the point of view of imports, as one of its most favoured nations. 
He is the Liberal Minister for Tourism in the Victorian Parliament. He said that China was opening up for tourism. My colleague the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe),  whose electorate adjoins mine, was not critical of the People's Republic of China in his remarks in this debate, but praised Taiwan. He said that the People's Republic of China had always bought our wheat when that country needed it. 
That is exactly right but we were the first country to be dropped from the list when their own crops were successful. They did not drop Poland from the list of importers. They did not drop Canada from the list of importers. They did not drop the Argentine or France. The first one to be dropped was Australia because of our filthy involvement in the Vietnam war. That is why we were dropped from the list. Then overnight China became respectable. Why did China become respectable? The true reasons why China has become respectable in the eyes of the United States have never been stated in this House. China became respectable with the United States because the American Chamber of Manufactures put the pressure on and said to the Nixon Administration that it wanted to sell some surplus goods. These facts are available in the Parliamentary Library if honourable members care to look them up. China was contemplating the purchase of some modern transport aircraft. The greatest area of unemployment in the United States was in Seattle, the location of the great American aircraft industry. China was contemplating buying some British aircraft and had placed orders for, I think, a couple of Concordes. Pressure was applied to the Nixon Administration to get on to the bandwagon and get over to China to try to sell some aircraft, thus relieving the redundancy in the Boeing aircraft factory in the Seattle region. That was one of the reasons why China became respectable overnight. The previous Government in this country for years tried to frighten the Australian people with the threat that the Chinese were about to land on our shores. Is it any wonder that the previous Government's supporters have been relegated to the Opposition benches where they will remain for many years because of the progressive attitudes of the Labor Administration. 
An honourable member has said something about being hooked. The honourable member's interjection has prompted my memory. I remember the words of  Mr McMahon,  the former Prime Minister when  Mr Whitlam  went to China or just before he was contemplating a visit to that country. The former Prime Minister said: 'Mao Tse-tung has got Whitlam on the hook like a big trout.' A week later he could have cut his own tongue out because Kissinger was over there paving the way for a visit by Tricky Dick Nixon. So what a clown the former Prime Minister made of himself. 
The Opposition does not like the truth coming out. I am deeply proud to be a supporter of this Government and I am prouder still of its legislative programme. The Whitlam-Barnard Administration has been criticised by speakers in this debate including the Leader of the Opposition in his speech this afternoon. But I believe that the Barnard-Whitlam Administration acted in accordance with the overwhelming wishes of the Australian people in acting as it did while the results in borderline electorates were being decided. What has that Administration done? It has done things that the ALP had committed itself to. That Administration put the commitments swiftly into action. The ALP's commitments included: The withdrawal of all our forces from Vietnam - those forces should1 never have been there; the cancellation of conscription; the release of conscientious objectors from prison; the release of conscripts from the Australian Army; the recognition of the People's Republic of China; the withdrawal of our diplomats from Taiwan; the granting of a passport to that great Australian Wilfred Burchett whose passport was cancelled 17 years ago by the previous Government. The previous Government accused him of being a traitor. He came back to Australia and said: 'If I am a traitor, here I am, charge me and put me before the courts.' But the supporters of the previous Government were not game enough to do it. That demonstrates the falsity of the filth that you have levelled again at the integrity of Wilfred Burchett. The former Government refused to give him a passport to come back to Australia to see his 80-year-old father who was dying, something that each and every one of those who participated in that refusal should be ashamed of for the rest of his life. That man came back to Australia with the aid of the French in Noumea. The previous Government prevented Burchett from coming back to his homeland by commercial aircraft. A private aircraft had to be used to bring him back. 
Why was Burchett's passport cancelled? It was cancelled because he wrote the truth about the Korean peace talks. He released to those sections of the world media prepared to print it the information that the United States of America had waged germ warfare in the Korean War. That is what he wrote and that is what he was punished for. The American Central Intelligence Agency stole his passport while he attended a conference in Thailand and the previous Government agreed with that action. It refused to issue him with another passport. But the Whitlam-Barnard Administration corrected the previous Government's evil as quickly and as swiftly as it could by directing our diplomats in France to issue Burchett with another passport. The present Government rightly withdrew the passports of 2 Australians who hold high positions in the Rhodesian Government. This also met with the approbation of the Australian people. We paved the way for a better deal for Aborigines, to give them the land rights which they have justly and rightly deserved for a long while and upon which question the previous Government see-sawed and wavered because it was afraid of offending big business in this country, of which it was the servant. 
I want to make some reference to the state of the coal industry in New South Wales which the previous Government allowed to deteriorate because of a lack of orderly marketing of our coal. The previous Government brought about a chaotic situation in the Hunter electorate that has not existed for many years by allowing the coal industry to be dominated by international consortiums. In the last annual report of the Joint Coal Board the  Chairman  pointed out that one million tons less of coal will be exported from New South Wales in the next 12 months. I would have liked the honourable member for Paterson whose electorate adjoins mine to have spoken with some feeling about the coal mines that have been closed down in his home town, Gunnedah, which is in his electorate. I would have liked him to have expressed some feeling for the families who have suffered. The education of the children of mine workers has been upset by the changes in the coal rnining industry in the Hunter Valley region. I know that the new Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  is endeavouring to plug the holes in the leaking boat created by the previous Government which brought about the disorderly marketing of coal in this country. I believe that the new Minister will endeavour to rectify the wrongs caused by the previous administration. 
In conclusion let me say that the Australian Labor Party is as united today as it ever was before. It will continue, despite criticisms, to implement the policies that the Australian people have wanted for so long. 
I congratulate the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  and other speakers from this side of the House for the contributions they have made during the debate on this very important social question. The only fault that I can see with the legislation is that it should have been passed in this Parliament a long time ago. I was prompted to make a minor contribution in this debate by a recent visit I made to the Morisset Mental Hospital. I think it would be of benefit to all of us if we could find time occasionally to visit some of our mental institutions. I recently visited one of the State's largest mental institutions- 
I think the honourable member could make better interjections than that; he is capable of making more intelligent interjections; he is belittling himself by making such an unwise interjection. I think humour should be introduced at the right time and I do not think this is the appropriate time, when we are debating a matter of such importance to the Australian people and particularly to the low income group, for the honourable member to make such remarks. I venture to say that if this legislation had been on the statute book a lot earlier there probably would not have been so many tragic cases in the mental hospital that I recently visited. It was pointed out to me in conversations with senior members of the staff at this mental hospital that there are 2 or 3 sisters and 2 or 3 brothers who are inmates of the institution who probably would not have been there had their parents received family planning advice or been able to obtain contraceptives at a reasonable price. If legislation of this type had been in operation at that time the country would not have been burdened with the tragic mental cases that I saw in this hospital. 
I regret to say that in all mental hospitals at times imbecile patients become pregnant to other patients. This legislation may remind those responsible for the administration of our mental hospitals of the great necessity to make contraceptives readily available to women who do not want to become mothers. Only last year I read in a document available to honourable members in the Parliamentary Library of a survey which was conducted by Swedish authorities into the cause of child delinquency. I believe that the findings which apply in Sweden could well apply to the same set of circumstances that exist in Australia or in any other Western democratic country. The Swedish research into child delinquency showed that 80 per cent of child delinquents in Sweden had been unwanted babies. As I said earlier, this legislation is long overdue. It was not introduced earlier because of the lethargic attitude of the previous Government, which did not apply its legislative programming to the needs of the poorer section of the community. The Liberal and Country Parties, as they generally are, were concerned about the wealthy section of the community and not the poorer section. 
I know from experience in my previous calling that a tremendous number of delinquents who ultimately become professional criminals come from large families and in all probability were unwanted children who did not receive warmth or affection. I believe that whilst this measure will be of great benefit at this time in our history I certainly would not like to see a decline in the family unit in Australia because I believe that the family unit, with devoted parents showing proper and true affection to the number of children that they want, is the richest asset any country can possess. I do not think this measure will have the effect of reducing the family unit in Australia. My experience is that married couples who are childless, perhaps through no fault of their own, sometimes develop a form of selfishness and are more concerned with leading a poodle along the street than showing affection to young children. Many women in our society suffer mental disturbances or breakdowns because they cannot have a child. 
I commend this legislation to the House. I believe that it is long overdue and that it will make a great contribution to people in the community who have played their part in bearing children, educating them, showing them loving warmth and training them in citizenship. It is appropriate that reasonably priced contraceptives should be within the means of people who, having done their duty to the nation, feel that they do not want more children. The Bill will achieve this. 
I listened with great interest to the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair).  I agree substantially with his submissions. From his experience as Minister for Primary Industry in the previous Government no doubt he learned a lot about the problems of the wine industry in Australia, which he was able to relate to the House. In his concluding remarks he foreshadowed a very dark future for the wine industry. I hope he is incorrect in that forecast because in the Hunter electorate, which I represent, there has been an upsurge in grape growing and there has been almost a 200 per cent increase in vine planting in the last 2 or 3 years. This vine planting has taken place on the border of the Hunter electorate and the electorate of my colleague the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe),  in the Branxton region. Both of our electorates - the Hunter electorate in particular - are suffering economically because of the uncertainty in the coal mining industry in that region concerning exports of coking coal to Japan. 
I and many others have been hoping that the wine industry, particularly in the Hunter Valley, will grow with increasing strength and create more employment in the region. Some 5 or 10 years ago there were about 1,300 acres of grapes under cultivation in the Hunter Valley. In recent times this has increased to nearly 13,000 acres. It is true, as was said by the honourable member for New England, that in the early times of grape growing in Australia - and in the Hunter Valley - mainly family combinations followed the profession. But in recent times in my electorate and in other parts of Australia there has been an intrusion by gigantic companies into the wine industry. I am unable to say whether in the long term this will be a good thing. It is probably true, as the honourable member for New England said, that the substantial wealth of the big companies interesting themselves in the wine growing industry has enabled the promotion of wine sales in this country and overseas. An article in today's Sydney 'Daily Mirror* appears under the headline: 'Aussie wine exports will double this year'. It reads as follows: 
Australian wine exports to the US were expected to double this year, the export manager of Kaiser Stuhl,  Mr H.  Palmer, said today. 
It is in today's 'Daily Mirror'. That statement seems to be in conflict with the dark shadows cast on the future of the industry by the honourable member for New England. The article also stated: 

 Mr Palmer said Australia exported from 5,000 to 15,000 gallons of wine to the US every year from 1960 to 1970. 
Earlier it had stated: 
Americans bought only $50,000 worth of Australian wines during 1971, but sales increased to $250,000 last year. 
That is a remarkable upsurge in purchases of Australian wines by the United States. Apparently the United States agrees that Australian wines are equal in quality to but cheaper than the best European wines. I was gratified to read that statement because it could bring about a stimulus in the wine producing areas of the nation, particularly in the Hunter Valley area of New South Wales. The history of wine growing in Australia shows that New South Wales was the first State to produce wine. That was in the Parramatta region. From knowledge of wine growing in the Hunter Valley, it was not looked upon as a lucrative profession, amazing as it may sound, until 10 or 15 years ago when there was an upsurge in wine consumption by Australians. In my view this was brought about by new Australians from European countries introducing one of their customs. The number of Australians drinking wine with their meals has increased gradually. While I have not the figures on hand, there has been a remarkable upsurge, I think all honourable members would agree, in the consumption of Australian wines by Australians. 
As I said, wine growing was not looked upon as a lucrative profession until 10 or 15 years ago, but it must have been a lucrative profession in the early days. Two of the names that are synonymous with the industry are Lindeman and Penfold.  Dr Penfold  and  Dr Lindeman  arrived here from England in the early part of the 19th century - about 1830 - and abandoned the medical profession to produce wine. That is different from what members of the medical profession would do today. Doctors would not leave their professions to grow grapes for wine production. That is the history. The Hunter Valley area has some of the old established names that have been in the wine industry for years. The product of one of them - Lindemans - received royal patronage today at the luncheon for the Duke of Edinburgh. 
The first cab off the rank, as the honourable member for Braddon said. Frequently Hunter Valley wines receive patronage when a member of the royal family is entertained in Canberra by the Parliament. I do not intend to dwell much longer on the subject, apart from mentioning some of the long established family names in the wine industry in the Hunter Valley. I refer to the Lindemans, Tullochs, Mcwilliams, Tyrells Draytons and Elliotts. Whilst I agree substantially with the submissions of the honourable member for New England, I hope that his forecast that the future of the wine industry is shadowed by dark clouds is incorrect, for the benefit of those people in my electorate who depend so much on the wine industry for employment at a time when the future of the coal industry is gloomy or dark and appears to be getting darker. I support the Government's proposal to abolish the excise duty on Australian wines. It was with deep regret that we learnt that when the Government was showing some consideration for the industry the wine producers increased the prices of their products. That is not a mark of gratitude or appreciation by the wine producers for the attitude of members of the Parliament. 
I am happy to participate in the cognate debate on the Appropriation Bill (No. 3) 1972-73 and Appropriation Bill (No. 4) 1972-73 which were introduced into the House recently by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean).  This legislation is designed to enable the Government to carry out its undertakings and its election promises to the people of Australia. Appropriation Bill (No. 4) seeks to appropriate a total of $67,944,000 from the Treasury. Mainly this sum of money is to meet the need for capital works and services for the extra departments and the changed structure of Government departments. The amount for capital works and services is $21,124,000. Included in the total appropriation sought under this Bill is an amount of $15m for a loan to the New South Wales Government for specific budgetary assistance to that State following an undertaking by the previous Government. The provision of $31,820,000 for employment creating purposes will enable the States to proceed with approved projects in accordance with agreements reached with the Commonwealth. 
My concern is that the previous Government in its anxiety to reduce unemployment figures prior to the last Federal election on 2nd December stipulated that loan money for unemployment relief was to be used by the States to absorb the largest number of unemployed. My constituents feel that the money is not being wisely spent and I think the same pattern applies in other parts of the country where unemployment is acute and work of an unimportant nature which absorbs the largest number of unemployed is being carried out. I refer to work such as the cleaning out of gutters and reducing the grass and weed menace in the respective shires. Councils in my area, particularly the City of Greater Cessnock Council, feel that if the money is allocated to obtain more capital equipment such as bulldozers and materials used in more effective projects such as sewerage works, road building and the construction of bridges it would be of more benefit to the people in the shires because it is work of a permanent nature. I hope that it is the wish of all honourable members that unemployment relief work should be of a more constructive nature. 
Everyone in this Parliament knows that there is an urgent need throughout the country for sewerage facilities. Many parts of the country lack adequate sewerage facilities. I think that the installation of sewerage facilities should be regarded as more important than the clearing out of drains and the removal of weeds or grass. I think that the type of work in which some of the former unemployed were engaged, such as removing weeds and grass, had a somewhat demoralising effect because those engaged in it felt that they were not doing a constructive job of a permanent nature and from which all the community would benefit. I guess that such work would have the same mental effect as if the person concerned were digging post holes and filling them in again. It is not work of a permanent nature. I hope that the Government will see its way clear to make available a substantial amount of money to be spent on capital equipment so that work of a more constructive nature might be carried out throughout the Commonwealth, particularly in my electorate of Hunter. - Admittedly 1 suppose that any government would like to reduce the number of unemployed by engaging the unemployed people on projects which absorb the most labour. I can understand why the previous  Government  implemented a policy whereby the highest percentage of labour was engaged in work that would have the purpose of reducing the unemployment figures. Any government which does this is committing an act of deception. It would be better to tell the Australian electors as a whole that the Government was engaging the unemployed on a more worthwhile class of work such as the installation of sewerage facilities, road building and bridge construction. I emphasise the need for sewerage facilities in particular. 
I was pleased to hear my colleague the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  refer this afternoon to the plight of those unfortunate people in Australia who have to depend on charitable organisations to supply them with kidney machines. I cannot recall any other honourable member on either side of the House raising this matter in which 1 believe the Parliament as a whole should show greater interest. Right near my home in Toronto a very decent type of young Australian boy has been on a kidney machine for 2 years. He has to depend on the local Lions Club to raise sufficient money for the machine. The amount required to instal a kidney machine in his home was correctly quoted by the honourable member for Scullin as $5,000. 1 think that we are imposing too much on worthy organisations such as Lions, Rotary, Apex and similar bodies. When you think that to enable this young Australian lad to live he has had to depend on these service organisations to supply him with a kidney machine there is some reflection on all parliamentarians- 
 I am grateful to the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Bury)  for directing attention to the state of the House. He obviously thinks that my submissions to the Parliament are worthy of a larger audience. I think they are too. For the benefit of those honourable members who did not hear what I was saying before attention was drawn to the state of the House I was emphasising to the Parliament the urgent need for it to give greater consideration to making money available to the States to relieve the chronic situation of persons who must use kidney machines. These machines could be made more readily available without the need to impose on worthwhile organisations such as Lions and Apex Clubs and the like, which in recent years have had to go around collecting money to provide kidney machines to relieve worthwhile Australians of the great mental torture in having to travel considerable distances to hospitals to receive kidney machine treatment. 
I have not the precise figures but there must be some hundreds of Australians who need such treatment. This is evident from the long wait for a kidney transplant, which, I understand from the honourable member for Scullin, is now approximately 2 years. Earlier today the honourable member for Scullin expressed great concern for and showed a great interest in these unfortunates who have to spend a minimum of 30 hours a week having their blood purified by a kidney machine to enable them to live. I hope that in the future the Government and the Parliament will take a greater interest in this problem and appropriate sufficient money so that kidney machines will be made more readily available to those unfortunate Australians who suffer the kidney ailment which necessitates treatment by a kidney machine. 
I make reference also to Appropriation Bill (No. 3) 1972-1973 which is before the House at present. The appropriations in this Bill similarly are designed to meet the needs of the pattern of Labor's legislative program of change. The Bill provides an appropriation of $10,850,000 to be allocated to the Aboriginal Advancement Trust Account to improve the health, education and housing of Aborigines and to make legal representation available to those Aborigines who appear as defendants in courts. For some years Europeans, particularly in New South Wales, have had the benefit in certain circumstances of legal representation being provided by the State Public Defender's Office Which does a good job for those eligible for its aid. 
I think the right for Aborigines to have an equal opportunity to avail themselves of the benefits provided by the Public Defender on the same basis as Europeans is long overdue. Of course, I am reminded of the fact that it was a New South Wales Labor government which introduced legal aid for Europeans through the office of the Public Defender in the New South Wales Department of the Attorney-General and of Justice. Some years ago the Australian people by referendum expressed overwhelmingly the view that more should be done for Aborigines. Whilst I admit that the previous Government had shown some endeavour to aid Aborigines, I am joyfully pleased that my Party in Government is making a more determined effort to relieve the plight of Aborigines. 
It is not true to say that in recent times nothing has been done. I had the opportunity, with the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Whittorn)  and others, of visiting the Kormilda College in Darwin, which is to be rebuilt. Another college is to be built for Aborigines near Alice Springs. My Government believes that sufficient was not being done by the previous Government and we are endeavouring to meet the needs of Aborigines whose problems are a legacy, one might say, of our great-great-grandfathers. The present generation of Australians has copped the lot, if I may use the vernacular, and has been burdened - and happily so - with the need through taxation to assist financially in meeting the problems of the Aboriginal people. 
In the news media recently there has been much talk about the reaction of the people of the southern metropolitan area of Sydney who have expressed indignation at the possibility of an Ampol refinery being built in that region. This matter was raised during question time here today. I feel that I can assure the Parliament that the people of Newcastle and the people of the Hunter Valley region would not express strong resentment at the oil refinery, which is proposed by the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd and H. C. Sleigh Pty Ltd, being built in the Newcastle area. Despite this Government's efforts, which have been partially successful in reducing the number of unemployed, unemployment is still far too high in the Hunter Valley region and in my electorate. For instance, in the Cessnock Shire about 500 workers are unemployed. Included among this number are 186 senior males, 116 junior males, 66 senior females and 90 junior females. It is my hope and wish that If BHP and H. C. Sleigh, which I understand are carrying out a feasibility study, see fit to implement and bring to fruition the establishment of an oil refinery at Newcastle, attached to that oil refinery will be a coal pilot plant. 
The United States of America is becoming concerned at exhausting its natural gas supplies, at the present time, when the development of Australia's natural gas supplies is in its infancy. The oil magnates of the United States are switching their interests to coal with a long term view to developing oil from coal with methods which would reduce pollution to a considerable extent. This process would be a considerable boon to the coal industry in the Hunter Valley, which is becoming redundant through the domination of the export coal industry in the Bowen Basin. Should a coal research pilot plant be attached to the BHP and H. C. Sleigh oil refinery, it might regenerate the coal industry in Newcastle, should such a refinery be established near the port of Newcastle. It would give some assurance to the security of employment of those who are still engaged in the coalmining industry in the rich Hunter Valley area. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What revenue has been obtained by the Government from excise on imported tobacco leaf during each of thelast  5  years. 
What sum has been claimed by the distributors of tobacco, cigarettes and cigars as a tax deduction for advertising these commodities in each of the same years, 
Did the Acting Treasurer note the comments reported in the Press this morning, attributed to Professor Paul Samuelson, that there had been greater economic growth in Australia under the previous Government? Is this true? How will Australia fare, in his opinion, under the new Government? 
I will not detain the House for long. I listened with great interest to the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe)  whose electorate adjoins the electorate of Hunter. I endorse his remarks wholeheartedly and congratulate him on bringing this tragic case before the national Parliament. I long for the day when this progressive Labor Government, to which I am proud to belong, will introduce moratorium legislation to prevent hire purchase companies doing this sort of thing. 

 - I am privileged to join in this debate, which is creating history for the Northern Territory. The Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Enderby),  who is at the table and who is one of the hardest working Ministers in the Government, seeks a mandate from the Parliament to establish a joint committee to inquire into and report upon matters relating to the Northern Territory. Like my colleague the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly),  as a result of my parliamentary activities taking me to the Northern Territory on numerous occasions in recent years I have developed some knowledge of the Territory and its problems and some degree of affection for the Territory and its people. I would say that at least one-third of the work performed by the Joint Committee on Public Works in recent years has involved its members in inquiring into, inspecting and taking evidence from numerous important people in the Northern Territory in connection with proposals relating to the Territory. We have had either the pleasure or the displeasure of visiting places such as Snake Bay, Alligator Creek and Elcho Island and a place called, I think Gundabluey. We have been practically all over the Territory. 
The Northern Territory has its problems but it is overcoming them. I recall that when I came into this Parliament in the early 1960s the Australian Labor Party was thundering at the Government of that day to develop the north and it had some effect on the then Government. The Government responded to a degree which, one could say, was to its credit. Due to the logic and forcefulness of its arguments, the Labor Party Opposition brought about the beef roads in the Northern Territory. It also brought about improvement* in the electricity supply and sewerage systems of Darwin and Katherine. In the latter years that the previous Government was in office we saw the installation of a rather modern sewerage system at Tennant Creek, a sewerage system which many people in my electorate would be proud to have. We also saw an improved sewerage system - at great cost to the Commonwealth - in Darwin. It was during the hearings concerning that sewerage system that I found that some of the people of Darwin were not appreciative of the generosity of the taxpayers in the eastern States and what they were prepared to concede to the Darwin people by putting into Darwin an ultra-modern sewerage system which many of the important towns and cities in the eastern States have been wanting for years but have not yet in sight. 
In my view the Committee to be created should and will act in the interests of all the people of the Northern Territory on a nonpolitical basis. I believe that the Minister for the Northern Territory will use his influence to see that the Committee functions similarly to the Public Works Committee. I felt that the honourable member for Wakefield was a little extravagant in his praise of me and the duties that I performed as a member of the Public Works Committee. Without taking any advantage of my colleagues on the Public 
Works Committee let me say that I was the sole dissentient - not that I feel honoured to have been the sole dissentient; my decision was dictated by evidence and conscience; I take a good look at myself when I find that I am in disagreement with the rest of my Committee - over the site of the Palmerston freeway. I think that time will tell whether I was hard to get on with or whether my logic was sound and true, because this Parliament has referred the matter of the Palmerston freeway back to the Public Works Committee for reconsideration. I believe that a majority of the Committee will come down in favour of the route which originally I alone supported. When 1 say that I am conscious of the fact that when God created man he gave him no third hand with which to pat himself on the back. 
Let me turn to the more serious problems of the Northern Territory. I think that the people of Darwin are inclined to be more bitchy than the people of Alice Springs. The climate promotes disagreement in Darwin. I found that it was easier to argue with my colleagues on the Public Works Committee when we were in Darwin than when we were in Alice Springs because of the inclement weather. But it is an Australian privilege to have a bit of a bitch or a disagreement - to have a bit of a go - and they certainly do in Darwin. As I said before, they have an ultramodern sewerage scheme. 1 asked the experts who testified before the Committee: If they put the sewerage outfall a mile or two out into Darwin Harbour, what would be the degree of pollution of the Darwin Harbour compared with that of Bondi Beach? The experts said that it would be infinitesimal and that it would be negligible compared with Bondi Beach. However, I found that I was in the minority on that occasion. I was not in sole disagreement. And at much more cost to the taxpayers throughout the nation, the ultra-modern scheme for land treatment of the sewage at Darwin has commenced operations. Good luck to them. They won the day and they got an ultra-modern sewerage scheme. 
On the serious side of things, what concerns me most in the Northern Territory is that the previous Government, due to agitation from the Australian Labor Party, raised the social services for the indigenous people in the Northern Territory, to the great acclaim of all Australians. Late last year T was very happy to hear the honourable mem ber for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  mention a case in the region of the Oenpelli Mission. Thi? concerned excessive drunkeness and the exploitation of Aborigines. While I am on this subject I want to mention a case that was brought to my attention by a most reliable source of information concerning the Bamyili Mission outside Katherine. The natives there are deprived of a wet canteen. On the day when the natives receive their rather - to them - substantial social service payments, a fleet of taxis pulls up at the mission and ferries them about 50 miles into Katherine. On one occasion the Katherine Hotel sold out of wine and all types of bombo - cheap wine or hooch. These social services were provided by this Parliament when the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  was the Minister for Social Services. He displayed many good qualities in his administration of Aboriginal affairs. I accept full responsibility for saying that. I believe that he was one of the best Ministers that the Liberal Party could produce as Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. But I would have admired him more than ever if he had tackled these problems of the Europeans exploiting the natives and a fleet of taxi drivers running the natives into town the moment they receive their social service payments to buy the hotel out of hooch or cheap wine. Whether the missions like it or not, they must face reality. They must consider permitting the sale of beer of low alcoholic content on the missions. 
The same thing happened in the defence forces many years ago when they had dry canteens. The honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  will probably agree with me. When the young recruits in the Navy, the Army or the Air Force did not have drinking facilities at their units they went into the local hotel. They were exploited. On some occasions when they were half intoxicated they were sold soapy water for wine or beer. They disgraced their uniforms until the progressive thinking heads of the defence forces realised that they had to face common sense and reality and put wet canteens on the Army and Air Force establishments where these young men could be supervised by long term serving officers. They were taught when to cease drinking and how to behave when they were drinking. I believe that this is urgent and imperative for the Northern Territory missions. I feel confident that the progressive thinking Minister for the Northern Territory will keep these facts in mind and that the missions will have to face the reality that liquor of a low alcoholic content should be made available on the missions where the natives cannot be exploited by white Europeans, publicans or taxi drivers. I hope that the proposed Committee when created will regard this matter as of top priority, because the brewery interests do not care as long as lucrative returns are flowing in for their shareholders. We must provide drinking facilities and properly trained people who will say to the Aborigine: 'Sambo, you have had enough. How much have you given to Mary and the kids?' He has to pull, if I may use the vernacular, some of his social services money aside and say: 'This is to buy food for Mary and the kids'. This is the practical approach we have to take. I believe that the creation of this Committee will be a step in the right direction. T believe that it will be a committee of a non-party political nature from which the people of the Northern Territory will derive great benefit, particularly the Aborigines, who will be saved from exploitation in the fields on which I put my greatest emphasis. 

 - Mr Speaker, 1 am somewhat appalled to hear the remarks of the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock).  He is a man of God. He denounced the North Vietnamese for being present in this country. 
The honourable member should keep quiet or I will deal with him. I was one of the persons who dined with the North Vietnamese delegation tonight and was very proud to do so. 
Vietnam is a country that in the middle of the last century had Western world imperialism imposed on it. It was resented. The country struggled bitterly for half a century to have the right to rule itself. After more or less ridding itself of the French the country was invaded by the Japanese and, after ridding itself of the Japanese, American imperialism was imposed upon it. The country has had more bombs dropped upon it in the last 12 months than has ever been dropped on the world in the history of mankind. That man of God, the honourable member for Lyne, did not raise his voice when napalm was raining from the heavens on women and little children. But he has the temerity to stand in this Parliament and condemn honourable members and people like myself who extended courtesy to the North Vietnamese delegation and expressed some degree of repentance for the actions of the previous Government, which the honourable member for Lyne had the temerity to support. He is a man of God, an evangelist. 
Clarence Darrow, the great American lawyer, once said 'Deep in the heart of every evangelist is the wreck of a confidence man'. This evangelist, the honourable member for Lyne, has the temerity to stand up in this Parliament and condemn people like myself for expressing a degree of sympathy. I would like to speak more fully about the honourable member for Lyne and the Vietnam war. I believe he should hang his head in shame for ever being a supporter of a government which brought about the murder of 500 decent Australian boys who were conscripted to go to Vietnam as a result of his actions and the actions of his Government. 
History will prove that he and his cohorts were a party to something that was almost more barbaric than anything that was previously known in this history of mankind - the involvement of this great country in the filthy Vietnam war about which the previous Government did not tell the Australian people the truth from its inception. If the Australian people had known the truth they would have put that government out of power at the election immediately following Australia's involvement in that war. I put my name down to speak tonight on another matter but I shall have to crave your indulgence,  Mr Speaker,  to allow me to speak on it during the adjournment debate tomorrow night. I am prompted by the remarks of the honourable member for Lyne to say that I believe that when the true history of the Vietnam war is made available to the Australian people the honourable member will hang his head in shame, particularly on account of the remarks that he has made in this Parliament tonight. 
I hope that the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  will pay me the courtesy of listening to my speech. After hearing it he might hold the view that something should be done about nationalisation or socialisation of the broiler industry which is in the hands of free enterprise. I wish to relate to the House some of the experiences of the unfortunate people who are breeding chickens for big combines. I have a lot to say to the House on this matter and because of the limited time available to me I will have to speed up my speaking rate. I want to point out what I consider to be prima facie evidence presented to me of considerable injustice imposed upon one of my constituents. I understand that his experiences are not uncommon amongst people engaged in his occupation throughout Australia. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  recently stated to the media that he was concerned about conditions in the broiler industry. I wish to quote a letter written to me by  Mr E.  Bichard of 3 Government Road, Kersley, near Cessnock, on 13th January 1973. He wrote: 1 wish to make a complaint against 2 combines trading under the names of Steggles Holdings and Mountain View, both processors of poultry. These 2 companies deliberately went out of their way to ruin me financially. They refused to supply me with chickens for continuation of my business in which I have invested thousands of dollars. To top it all, obstacles have been put in the way of my selling my property. I must point out that Mountain View was under the managership of W. Halliday and his son, Phillip. W. Halliday finished his contract at the same time as they put me out of business. My property was worth between $40,000 and $50,000 on the market in 1968, but today because of deterioration since 1968 the value has dropped to zero. 
As the solicitors, Messrs E. H. Tebbutt and Sons have pointed out to  Mr Crawford,  Minister for Agriculture in the State Parliament of New South Wales, these companies have far too much power; they can get people to go heavily into debt and at a whim of any source finish him up and nothing will the State Government do. Every grower that has gone out of business can give a poor story.  Mr Morris,  Minister for Transport in New South Wales, has also received complaints from growers. 
This has all developed to me from an item inserted in a newspaper by  Mr G.  Neilly, MIA for Cessnock, and referring to government help for the growers to form a co-operative. The following, although condensed, will show you what each one of these companies did to me. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Health. I preface it by saying that a short time ago I received in my mail a circular which states: 'Illegal abortion - tonight at 7.30 p.m. in the Senate- ' 
I do not intend to detain the House for any length of time. 
I believe that I can make my submissions in fewer words than probably could others. I disagree entirely with the censorious remarks directed by the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  to the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby).  I believe that the present Minister for Immigration is one. of the most progressive, energetic, sincere and hardworking Ministers that the Parliament has had for many years. He is a down to earth practical man who has eliminated superfluous red tape from the Migration Act which many Australian people had requested the previous Government to do when it was in office. It will be a true Australian Migration Act and it will not be tied up with the red tape and rigmaroles of the previous Act for which the former Government was responsible. It will make the oath of allegiance more practical and simpler and will bring uniformity to the processes through which migrants must go to become Australian citizens. The Bill will simplify the procedures in a proper way in accordance with the wishes of th. overwhelming majority of Australian citizens. 
Having said that, let me now say that I sometimes get disturbed about procedures in the Department. I must pay some credit to the efficiency of immigration officers in Australia in the manner in which they issue passports. However certain people in our community are still able to obtain passports by false or fraudulent means. Knowing human nature as I do, I know that the most foolproof scheme that can be implemented in any immigration office or bank is not foolproof unless the honesty of those enforcing the scheme or carrying out their duties is beyond reproach. Since I have been in this Parliament, I have always held that view. I have heard the same thing said by a former member for Batman,  Mr Bird,  who advocated in this Parliament that people in trustworthy positions which allowed them to be subject to corruption should be required to declare regularly their assets. He said that this should apply to members of Parliament, public servants, taxation officials and people in positions of trust. I believe that if we members of Parliament keep harping on this issue, eventually one day we will have a system - if. we are to preserve our democracy we should have such a system - by which men in high positions of trust, even the judiciary and other men in high, influential legal positions, should have to declare their assets when they accept a responsible position and every 3 years thereafter. I believe that this should be applied not only to people in the immigration office, about whom I am not making serious allegations. Every honourable member of this House knows that from time to time some of the spivs in the community are able to obtain passports to leave the country when the law enforcement authorities are looking for them. Ronald Biggs is a name which is paramount. He was one of the participants in the great train robbery. He apparently entered Australia and left Australia with the law enforcement authorities looking for him all over the place. 
I know that what I am now about to say may be repugnant to most Australians and to most honourable members of this House. I say to the Minister for Immigration that I should like to see the principle sold to the Australian community and to this Parliament that people obtaining a passport or responsible migration documents should be invited to submit voluntarily their right index finger print or their left or right thumb print. 
 I know that this will be frowned upon and I know the arguments that can be used against it. Some would say that it would be treating the Australian people or visitors to this country as criminals. I know that the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  being a legal man, and believing as I do in the liberty of the subject, would be able to use a powerful argument against such a concept. But it would have a preventive effect in these days when the democracies of the Western world are suffering from the highest crime surge in their histories. This is occuring in Britain, America, Australia and Canada. I believe that one day the Australian people will ask for the voluntary surrendering of the fingerprint of a person on an important document such as a passport, because a fingerprint is the only known positive identification of mankind. I do not believe that fellows like Biggs and other interantional crooks would be able to move in and out of the United States, Australia, Canada and Great Britain if this policy were adopted and eventually implemented because with positive means of identification such as the left thumb print or the right or left index finger print it would make it virtually impossible for such people to obtain somebody else's passport. Tactful officers could obtain the prints more quickly than a person could sign his signature in the ordinary way. I should like the Minister to inform the House, if he can, whether any other country has adopted a system of identification, voluntary or compulsory, on passports or important migration documents along the lines I have suggested. I congratulate the Minister on the principles of this legislation and I again praise him for his practical, down-to-earth implementation and modification of the Australian Citizenship Act. 
First and foremost,  Mr Speaker,  I want to protest at the difficulty Government back benchers have in getting an opportunity io speak in this Parliament. I rose today on at least 6 occasions. I have had the greatest respect and admiration for you,  Mr Speaker,  and I will continue to try to hold it, but 1 was told after the debate on the controversial abortion question that 1 had no chance of getting the call because 'James might rock the boat'. If thai is the situation in this Parliament, my retiring nature has been strained so far that it will not be prepared to put up with the situation any longer. I was told this evening by you.  Mr Speaker,  that I would be the first  speaker  on the adjournment debate. 
I will not waste any more time because there is an important issue that I want to raise, but 1 will not be suppressed any longer. I want to stress in this Parliament tonight a matter which I believe will be of deep interest to the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner).  I am glad that he is in the House. Last year he led a successful delegation of members of this Parliament to Malawi to attend the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association Conference. I wish to raise the matter of religious persecution which unfortunately is occurring at the moment in Malawi, a fellow Commonwealth country which to all intents and purposes was the perfect host to all delegates from the Commonwealth last year. Those people being persecuted for their beliefs are the 23,000 Jehovah's Witnesses who used to live peacefully and worship there. Briefly, their persecution arises from their religious beliefs which prevent them from any political involvement wherever they live. Jehovah's Witnesses are taught to respect and observe the law of the country in which they reside as long as those laws are not contrary to their divine law. 
In Malawi the Government places strong pressure on people to purchase political membership cards. I heard rumours of this whilst I was in Malawi but most people were afraid to speak about it. The Jehovah's Witnesses conscientiously feel that that is contrary to the words found in the Bible in the Book of John, chapter 17, verse 16, which states: They are no part of this world, just as I am no part of the world'. Persecution of Jehovah's Witnesses on a national scale in Malawi began in 1967. Many witnesses were then beaten, some were murdered, and their homes and places of worship were looted and destroyed. 
I believe that the honourable member is sincere in his interjection. I will insist that he take the matter further and write to the appropriate body. I have no doubt he will do that. 
Thank you. The Christian activity of the Jehovah's Witnesses, including, the peaceful meeting to study the Bible, was banned, as was all their literature. The persecution against the Jehovah's Witnesses has even been put into the official Congress Party's policy. As formulated in December 1972 the Party platform said that certain fanatical' religious sects which operate like the banned Jehovah's Witnesses hampered both the social and the economic development of the country. It went on to order the instant dismissal of any sect member, the closing of any business operated by a member, dismissal from the Government service and discouragement of members forming a business activity and it ordered that members living in villages should be chased away from them 
Last year, in 1972, two or three months before the Australian delegation arrived in Malawi for the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association Conference, another wave of persecution broke out, and is still continuing on a much worse scale than in 1967. The 'British Financial Times', last October said: 
The purge of Jehovah's Witnesses has unsettled the country more than any other post-independence event. Action against the Christian Sectarians followed a resolution passed at the Annual Convention of the 
Malawi Congress Party to deprive Witnesses of their livelihood and have them 'chased away' from their villages unless they joined the Party. 
After the savage attacks on their homes and places of worship, and the physical violence against them, many Jehovah's Witnesses fled the country and sought refuge in neighbouring Zambia. Here 19,000 refugees were placed in a refugee camp near the border of the 2 countries. The Zambian authorities did not want to deal with these unwanted visitors and the Jehovah's Witnesses refugees were placed under security guards and only a few shipments of much needed food, medical supplies, bedding and so on, were allowed in. Due to this inhumane treatment it was estimated that about 350 Jehovah's Witnesses died. But worse was to come for the remaining Jehovah's Witness refugees. 
Zambia authorities told the Witnesses in December, only a few months later, that they had decided to ship the refugees back to Malawi. They did not tell the refugees this but they were told they would be taken to another camp in Zambia. Well, honourable members can guess what happened when the Jehovah's Witness refugees were sent back to the country from which they had recently fled. The Government's attitude towards them had not changed and the persecution was even worse when the refugees returned. Their leading Jehovah's Witnesses were put into jail straight away. The Malawi officials repeated their order to the Witnesses to buy the political party membership cards back in their villages. The Witnesses again refused to buy the cards and were savagely beaten for their pains. Women were stripped, beaten and often raped. For the foul gruesome details honourable members can refer to 2 copies of the Jehovah's Witnesses publication 'Awake' for 8th December 1972 and April of this year. The Witnesses again had to flee their villages and hide in the bush to avoid torture and possible death. 
The situation was not much better for the Jehovah's Witnesses who fled to nearby Mozambique. But at least they were allowed to stay in a confined area and allowed to clear land and plant crops. Jehovah's Witnesses have been persecuted in many countries for their beliefs. In Spain they are under constant attack for their conscientious belief against serving in military forces, and in other countries their faith has been seen as disruptive to national unity. The Jehovah's 
Witnesses ask - so should we - that the Malawi Government grant them the provisions set forth in the Constitution of the Republic of Malawi. That document, in it's first chapter states: 
The Government and the people of Malawi shall continue to recognise the sanctity of the personal liberties enshrined in the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights, and of Adherence to the Law of Nations. 
No person should be deprived of his property, without payment of fair compensation, and only where the public interest so requires. 
All persons regardless of colour, race or creed should enjoy equal rights and freedom. 
These rights have been ignored for Jehovah's Witnesses in Malawi. The Jehovah's Witnesses are citizens of Malawi and should not be persecuted for their religious beliefs. I hope other honourable members will support my call for religious freedom in Malawi. I have at least one strong supporter who does not hide the fact that he is a Roman Catholic and who will strongly support me in this protest against the persecution of these people in a Commonwealth nation. I hope that our delegates to the next Commonwealth Parliamentary Association Conference will make this an issue. After all, we have taken economic sanctions against Rhodesia and South Africa for what 1 believe is something less serious than the persecution of Jehovah's Witnesses that is going on today in Malawi which is a Commonwealth country. 
1 know that you will. You are a man of your word. 
I was told I had no chance,  Mr Speaker. 
They have preference over back benchers? 
Last week in this Parliament a debate took place which aroused considerable interest throughout the nation. I refer to the Medical Practices Clarification Bill. In my 13 years in this Parliament I have used the privilege of disclosing the names of certain individuals in society when I have been positive that they have subverted the law and have been virtual parasites on our community. On each occasion I was sure of my facts. I intend again tonight in this debate to name certain people about whose nefarious practices in the community and illicit incomes I am positive- This is related to the debate last week on the Medical Practices Clarification Bill. Before I disclose their names I want to say that I have no doubt that in the medical profession there is an overwhelming number of people who are devout, who are full of humanism and who are doing a good job by society in general. 
The first doctor I want to name is  Dr John  Reid Heath, a medical practitioner who was referred to in the report of the Commissioner of Taxation for 1967-68. He was named prominently in the Kaye inquiry in connection with the abortion racket in Melbourne some two or three years ago. According to that report, he underestimated his taxable income by $260,000 for the years 1952-53 and 1964- 65. 
From unfortunate women who are compelled to go to abortionists to terminate pregnancies for some reason or other. In the main that is where I believe he got it. 
I now want to refer to a woman who was receptionist and trained nurse at the Heatherbrae Clinic at Bondi for some years, working for 2 qualified medical practitioners who were carrying out a large scale abortion racket. That person's name is Daphne Gloria Colbourne. She is referred to in the report of the Commissioner of Taxation for 1966-67 at page 94. Her underestimated taxable income was $38,098. The next one to whom I want to refer is old George Smart, one of Sydney's biggest stillpractising abortionists, who recently was charged on 72 counts of illegal abortion. He practises in the heart of Sydney. He has been before the Commissioner of Taxation on several occasions. At his first trial the judge - Judge Aaron Levine - died- The second time he was indicted the jury disagreed. On the third occasion the Attorney-General decided not to file a bill. He is mentioned in the report of the Commissioner of Taxation for 1969-70 at page 122 as having an underestimated taxable income of $29,368. In the same report, James Gavin Troup, who was mentioned prominently in the Kaye inquiry in Melbourne in connection with the abortion racket and who is a practising abortionist, was mentioned as having an underestimated taxable income of $105,534 for the years 1959-60 and 1965-66. 
Yes, blood money. Doctor Thomas Wall - Tommy Wall - is known as a skilled abortionist and was practising at the Heatherbrae Clinic at Bondi for some considerable time. He is mentioned in the report of the Commissioner of Taxation for 1970-71 at page 114 as having an underestimated income for the years 1962-63 and 1967-68 of $24,471.  Dr Finks,  who was prominently mentioned in evidence before the Kaye Commission in Melbourne, is featured in the report of the Commissioner of Taxation as underestimating his income by $17,484.  Dr Troup,  who was prominently mentioned do the Kaye Commission inquiry in connection with the abortion racket in Melbourne, is reported to have under-estimated his taxable income for the years 1959-60 to 1965-66 at $105,534. The late  Dr Hennessy  - and I apologise to his relatives- 
I do not leave vultures like these alone. I came into this Parliament to expose these sorts of things and I will continue to do so as long as I am a member of this place. 
The estate of the deceased  Dr Hennessy  who was a well known practising abortionist in Sydney was investigated by the Taxation Branch and his underestimated taxable income was assessed at $92,002.  Mrs Molly  Hearty, a receptionist for 2 doctors who practised extensively at Maroubra and who were recently charged before the courts in Sydney for endeavouring to bribe a law enforcement officer, had an underestimated income of $47,260. 
I will not detain the House any longer. 1 believe that the people in this country and the members of this House should all be made aware of the extensive racket in illicit abortions - or illegal abortions, if you. prefer to put it that way. I have submitted these facts to the Parliament tonight so that those people who are making a special study of . this great social problem, which has stirred every member of this House because of the difficulty in arriving at a decision on it, will, when they are studying this problem, take into consideration the information I have placed on the records of this National Parliament in connection with these people, some of whom profess to be great humanitarians. Many of them, I believe, are concerned only with getting money from unfortunate women who find themselves in a predicament and want to terminate a pregnancy. They are not concerned on humanitarian grounds in resorting to these measures. 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
Was an Asian named Raymond Chan, who is not naturalised, convicted in the Australian Capital Territory Supreme Court in June 1972 and sentenced to 6 years hard labour on each of 3 charges of administering a stupefying drug with intent to commit robbery. 
If so, has consideration been given to deporting the prisoner. 
Was the crime unique in the annals of Australian criminal history. 
Prior to arrest in the Australian Capital Territory, did  Mr Chan  abscond in Victoria when on bail of $1,500 provided by his wealthy, and influential parents. 
When did  Mr Chan's  parents and other members of his family migrate to Australia. 
Who sponsored them. 
What were their special qualifications to gain admission. 
Did they migrate from Mainland China or Hong Kong. 
Which migration officer handled the recommendations which enabled the family to migrate. 
I rise tonight because I particularly want to congratulate the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  on his brilliant and sincere address to the Parliament and the nation on the achievements of the Government's foreign policy and its changes since attaining office on 2 December last. The Prime Minister has created history. In future the Whitlam Labor Government will be marked as the most realistic and progressive that this nation has had since federation because it has faced up to the realities of the times and has given overall benefits to the Australian people today and for generations to come. I was deeply proud to hear the Prime Minister in his address on international affairs say: 
In the same spirit, the Government has decided to establish diplomatic relations with the Democratic Republic of Vietnam, the German Democratic Republic, Cyprus, Poland and the Vatican, and to make  informal contacts with the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. Similarly we have decided that on commercial trade with the Soviet Union, Eastern Europe, Cuba, North Korea, North Vietnam and China, . . . 
I was particularly proud to know that our Government is to recognise little Cuba in respect of trade. I hope that the new diplomatic relations that have been established with the Vatican may be used to liberate little Cuba from the sadistic economic embargo at the hands of certain hawkish influences that seem to have some control over successive United States governments. 
I am one of the few members of this Parliament who have had the privilege of visiting little Cuba. I visited Cuba in 1962, 10 days before the missile crisis, and from that day onwards I have taken some interest in Cuba's history. It is a sad history. Cuba was under the tyrannical rule of Spain from 1492 and fell into the hands of American big business after the Spanish-American war. What was found after the successful revolution of Fidel Castro - a Jesuit who had a very strict upbringing and was reared in the teaching order of the Roman Catholic church? This little country of 80 per cent Roman Catholics has suffered too much for too long. After the revolution it was actually found that there were 650,000 permanently unemployed in a population of 6) million. 
1 got the information from reading numerous books and the verbatim speech which Fidel Castro made before the United Nations. There were 650,000 permanently unemployed in a population of 6) million people. Rents and telephone charges were the highest in the world. Seventy per cent of the farmers' crops had to be paid in rent to the landlords. Organised crime was the order of the day. The mortality rate of children between the ages of 7 and 12 was among the highest in the world and a frequent killer was hookworm which could easily have been rectified had the unfortunate parents of those children been able to afford medical attention. 
I want to place great credit and praise on the Roman Catholic bishops charged with the responsibility for Latin America. Today, the Roman Catholic bishops are organised in exerting pressure on the United States Government to lift their ruthless embargo against little Cuba. The American Government in about 1962 told the world that it was going to implement a savage economic embargo against Cuba but was not going to employ sanctions against Cuba in connection with necessary drugs to save human life. But this was proved to be an outrageous lie, because after the unsuccessful Bay of Pigs invasion during which some hundreds of American mercenaries were arrested by the Cuban defence forces and were imprisoned, the Cuban Government told the American authorities that they would let their prisoners out of gaol if certain life saving drugs were sent to Cuba. In the United States the hat was taken around and some thousands of United States dollars were collected to supply the necessary drugs. On 7 June 1972 the Division for Latin America of the United States Catholic Conference issued the following statement on the United States embargo of Cuba: 
For 10 years our government has observed a total economic embargo against Cuba. Whatever reasons argued for such a policy in 1962, no compelling justification has been offered for its continuance in recent years. On the contrary, one overwhelming argument against it has sounded with increasing force and urgency - it is simply wrong to impose needless hardships and suffering on those most directly affected by this policy: The poor, the sick, the aged and the very young. 
Insofar as the embargo has had discernible political effects, they seem quite different from those intended. 
The real effects of the embargo, however, are to be measured not in political but in human terms. It causes, in the words of the bishops of Cuba, unnecessary suffering and should therefore be ended. 
April 10 marked the third anniversary of a major statement from the Church in Cuba, the collective pastoral letter signed by all the bishop? of Cuba, which said in part: 
Who among us does not know of all kinds of difficulties that are blocking the way that leads to development . . . external difficulties arising from complications that govern the current direction and fabric of international relations among peoples. These causes have unjustly led to adverse conditions for the weak, small and underdeveloped countries. 
Is this not the case with the economic blockade to which our country has been subjected . . .? 
In seeking the common good of our people and our faithful, in serving the poor among them, according to the  comand  of Jesus ... we denounce the unjust conditions of the blockade, which is contributing to unnecessary suffering, and to making all efforts at development more difficult. Therefore, we are appealing to the conscience of all those in the position to solve this problem to initiate decided and efficient action aimed at the lifting of the blockade'. 
We join with the bishops and people of Cuba in calling for an end to this embargo ... we appeal to the conscience of all who are in a position to solve this problem to do so as quickly as possible. 
Therefore I urge my Government to continue the progress in foreign affairs which it indicated tonight it will do. I would applaud our Government as loudly as I possibly can if it sent to Cuba now a ship with the goods which are necessary to help that country overcome the sadness and tragedy which have been imposed upon it by the savagery of the United States embargo. I agree with the Roman Catholic Bishops of Cuba and the United States Roman Catholic Bishops whom I applaud for their actions in seeking to end the economic embargo against this small country in the Caribbean. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. I refer to the answer given to the honourable member for Macquarie yesterday on key money demanded of people seeking accommodation in aged persons home units. I ask: Does the Commonwealth meet two-thirds of the cost of these units? What steps does it propose to take to end this most uncharitable practice by charitable bodies and how extensive is this practice to his knowledge? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Defence and it follows a question asked by the honourable member for Wimmera - it is a follow on. Will the Minister see that, if more naval personnel than the number required want to serve on the naval ship to visit the French nuclear testing area in the interests of all mankind, priority is given to the present crew now serving on the ship to be used? 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
1 ) Is an oil from a coal or shale plant an economic proposition to the Australian nation at this time. 
What percentage of Australia's petroleum needs is (a) imported and (b) locally produced at the present time. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Attorney-General. Is the Minister aware that a chap named Woodward who is attached to the New South 
Wales Department of Justice last week publicly criticised the Divorce Law Reform Association in Australia which has been exposing weaknesses in our divorce laws and certain exploitation of humble citizens by legal eagles? Does he agree with this criticism by this man Woodward? 
I will try to quickly- 
My speaking time has already been restricted by 5 minutes,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  due to your probable over-courtesy to the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair).  (Quorum formed.) I resent the attitude of the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  in calling for a quorum. I have behaved myself in the House tonight. I had already lost 5 or 7 minutes of my speaking time,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  due to your courtesy in allowing the honourable member for New England to make a personal explanation. Then the honourable member for Lyne, without justification, had to restrict my speaking time further by calling for a quorum. I want briefly to comment on the remarks of a previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  who dwelt at some length on the appointment of judges to the High Court. I can quickly give him my opinion as to how judges should be selected. The selection should rotate between the major parties of this Parliament. All judges should retire at 70 years of age, which I believe the law now requires. 
The honourable member for Griffith made adverse comment about judges hanging on in their jobs until they are 85 or 87 years of age. It must be a pretty easy job for a man of that age to be able to carry it out. Passing from that point, I also want to comment on the remarks of the honourable member for Griffith about the socialist doctrine pursued, he alleges, by the Government. I remind the honourable member that apparently the tendency to socialism is becoming more popular than ever because in today's 'Age' right on the front page is a headline about Toorak of all places - I understand that is one of the silvertail suburbs of Melbourne. The headline reads: Toorak's new mayor is a socialist'. But what the members of the Opposition forget to do, when they applaud the free enterprise society which they have followed diligently for many years, and have got away with, is to bring to notice or to level criticism at the crook companies which from time to time in their free enterprise society are exposed by the daily Press. In today's 'Daily Telegraph' - I hold it up for honourable members to see - on the front page is the headline: 'Government Order to Close 29 of Barton's Companies.' We find in the Sydney 'Daily Mirror' of Thursday, 23 August 1973, the headline:  "Nothing to Hide" says Director. "Misjudgments cannot be Called Dishonesty" '. This is the free enterprise society which is applauded so much by members of the Opposition. 
This is one of my proudest moments in the 13 years that I have been a member of the House of Representatives, being given the opportunity to speak in support of my Labor Government's first Budget in 23 years that has been a period of peace. It has been much longer than that since the Labor Party was able to introduce a peacetime Budget. This Budget is designed in peace to promote peace, goodwill and harmony among all citizens of our land and to distribute more equally the nation's wealth. I hope that these will always be the fundamental principles of the Australian Labor Party. Let me re-emphasise some of the features that I consider are the most important in the Budget. I regard the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  as the most dedicated Treasurer of all times. What should be the top priorities of any progressive and honest government? Firstly, in my view the housing needs of the people should be met adequately. From time to time the present Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson)  has pointed out that when the Labor Government took office there were 93,000 unfilled applications for 
Housing Commission homes throughout Australia. Secondly, education is equally as important. Education should be available to all children at minimum or no cost. Thirdly, social welfare should be adequate to enable our physically and mentally retarded, our aged, invalid, sick or widowed people to live in dignity. Fourthly, the health needs of our people ought to be given top priority and be provided for properly. I regard these 4 important subjects to be most important to any nation and as matters upon which any government should be judged by its people. 
How has the Whitlam-Crean Labor Administration approached these important issues? In regard to housing, 40 per cent more finance has been provided in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. This represents a total of $38. 6m more than was expended last year. Under previous tory governments, there have been more acute housing problems in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory than in any other part of Australia. Deductibility of mortgage interest as promised in the Labor Party's policy speech will have effect from 1 July 1974. The homes savings grants scheme is to be phased out. No one could ever understand it. I remember a time when the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Bury),  as Minister for Housing in a previous government, was introducing a Bill to amend the legislation. He admitted frankly in the Parliament at that time that the scheme was so complicated that he did not properly understand it. In my view, the homes savings grants scheme has more strings attached to it than a p parachute More people have failed to qualify for a homes savings grant than ever qualified for one. Those people who have commenced to save for the grant will have time to complete their 3 years of saving and to acquire a home before the scheme goes into oblivion. 
As honourable members on the Government side who have spoken previously have pointed out, Labor is to provide over $843m for education during 1973-74. The honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  pointed out that this represents a 92 per cent increase on the previous years allocation for education. In my view this would be the largest amount appropriated for education in any Budget since Federation. An additional rise will take place in 1973-74 as the programs commencing in 1974 come into effect. My 
Government, as it promised in its policy speech, will from 1 January 1974 assume full financial responsibility for tertiary education at universities, colleges of advanced education, State teachers colleges and other approved teachers colleges, including the abolition of fees at all those institutions and technical colleges. The implementation of these proposals will entail additional outlays of $179m in 1973-74. 
Our education policies, in my view, are a blueprint for the Australian community and are so long overdue through inadequate legislative measures by previous tory governments which gave inadequate financial aid to the children of the low income groups. Now it will be seen that more of our universities will be able to house more children of the lower income groups. In this field, an awful imbalance existed under toryism in past years. A university education was regarded as too good for the children of the workers or of low income groups. Labor is to correct this tragic imbalance which has existed for far too long. 
In the Budget, $7.9m will be provided for the national school dental scheme in 1973-74. This Government will abolish the $10 charged currently on hearing aids and also will make hearing aids from the Commonwealth Acoustics Laboratories, and batteries for those hearing aids, free to those unfortunate people with hearing problems who have not been able to afford hearing aids in the past. As the community becomes more aware of our universal health scheme, that scheme will be applauded by an overwhelming number of Australians. It is to operate from 1 July 1974. The sum of $36 lm will be provided to meet the Labor Government's proposals in 1973-74 under the existing scheme. No doubt other countries which can do so eventually will copy our example. We believe in giving priority to preventative health measures over curative health measures. We intend to show greater sympathy to those unfortunate people who fall victim of drugs and alcoholism. We will allocate $7.5m to assist the States to develop communitybased mental health, drug and alcoholism dependency services. Further, $ 1.75m is provided for mental health institutions and $500,000 is appropriated for anti-smoking campaigns. The expenditure on home nursing aid will be uplifted. The milk subsidy for schools is to be modified. The milk subsidy will be paid for the needy but those who do not need that benefit will not receive the Commonwealth subsidy. 
I turn to social welfare. An increase of $1.50 a week is provided for age, invalid and widow pensions as promised in our policy speech. This brings the single pension rate to $23 a week and for married couples it will be $40.50 a week. The allowance for dependent children of widows and aged and invalid persons will be raised to $5 a week. These increases will be extended to those in receipt of repatriation and service pensions and those receiving tuberculosis allowances. In the glories of the increases announced, we propose to implement a new benefit of $10 for orphan children whose both parents are deceased. 
The first positive step in our assurance to the people that our election promise to abolish the means test in the life of this Parliament has been taken. The first shot has been fired. The means test is to be abolished in respect of all persons 75 years of age who qualify residentially for the age pension. The Labor Government will reduce this age limit in its 3-year term of office to 65 years at which point the means test will be totally abolished. When the people of Australia realise the benefits that will be derived from the minor increases in petrol, cigarette and whisky charges, I feel sure that they will willingly meet the extra costs knowing the good that the amount of money reaped from these impositions will do to the whole of our society. 
Debate interrupted. 
Honourable members will recall that, due to the time limit imposed by the House, this debate was interrupted on the last day of sitting. I have only a few minutes in which to conclude my remarks. When the debate was interrupted I was enjoying the praise of my Government in connection with the first Labor Budget in 23 years. 
The Opposition has given a false impression of the Budget. Members opposite believe in misleading the people but they will not get away with it. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise whether, in view of the scandal and imputations surrounding the Bally poker machine company of the United States, he will bar further imports of its poker machines or their parts into Australia. 
It. was not my intention to speak on the matter before the House but I cannot recall a previous occasion when I have been afforded the luxury of such praise as was directed to me by my political colleague, the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly).  I am somewhat elated. It seldom happens that one is the sole dissentient in a committee of 9 intelligent persons. When one is the sole dissentient and one looks at oneself in the mirror one thinks: T must be an odd bod. I am against the other 8'. That was my attitude after listening to the evidence in Darwin last year as to the route which this road, the Palmerston Highway, should take. I was conscious of the fact. I never like to be an odd bod and I thought I might have been queer, but not in the sense that engenders the mirth ; I most certainly am not one of those. The Parliament referred back the recommendation of the previous Public Works Committee as to the route that the road should take and the Committee - except, I understand, for  Senator Jessop  - after considering the evidence again and no doubt additional evidence, changed its view to the view that I held singularly last year. This goes to show that one can have the right argument but not the numbers. 
You have not the numbers. I am very happy to see that the Committee finally decided to recommend that the route of this road should be the route that I supported last year. I thought it was vitally important that, if possible, the private properties should not be encroached upon. The motorists who will use the highway believe that they should be able to travel around the cliffs of Fannie Bay and view the beautiful sunsets, which I think are prettier there than in other parts of Australia. 
I also hold the view that private individuals in our free democracy should at all times express their opinions on the route that a road should take. I remember my father years ago pointing out to me where the main highway from Newcastle to Maitland was diverted around Baron John Brown's coal property. In my view this should not have been done. The people had. to travel around a virtual dog-leg road because Baron Brown said: 'The council shall not put a road through my property.' He took the local council to the High Court of Australia and the Privy Council. I do not know whether he won or whether money power won. I am prepared to accept that it was the power of money that actually got the decision. I am not inferring that the Privy Council was corrupt, but we know that one has to have wealth to take a legal matter to the Privy Council. The community had to put up with the inconvenience of the diversion along a dog-leg road at Hexham due to the arrogance and the power of money of the late Baron Brown. I support the motion and I am very elated at the decision of the Public Works Committee. I am particularly grateful for the perhaps extravagant praise that the honourable member for Wakefield directed to me this afternoon. 
I rise this evening to disclose to the House prima facie evidence which indicates to me that an injustice is being perpetrated on certain people in Australia through the existence of a pirate film entitled 'Swan Lake'. I believe that in recent times there has been an agreement between the Australian film industry and the Soviet film industry to exchange films. The Soviet Union pays certain copyright duties to the Australian producers of Australian films which go to the Soviet Union and similarly persons who show Soviet produced films in Australia are obligated to pay the copyright to the Soviet producers. A constituent of mine, Kir Warren Murnane, has been in touch with the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones),  the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  and me recently and has pointed out that he has obtained from Quality Films of Australia a true negative copy of the film 'Swan Lake' produced by the Soviet film industry. This film is billed for showing at Kings Theatre, New Lambton, on 24 September. However, a man well known as an Australian entrepreneur,  Mr Harry  M. Miller, has been exhibiting in Australia a pirate film on which no copyright duties have been paid. I am informed that the film has been exhibited in Sydney during the past 3 months and is now being shown in Brisbane. It is to be exhibited in Newcastle a few days before the showing of the legal copy now in the possession of  Mr Murnane.  I understand that persons associated with Harry M. Miller intend to exhibit their pirate copy in Newcastle at the Lyric Theatre on 20 September. 
I do not believe that any honourable member would support the illegal showing of an illegal film on which copyright duties have not been paid when the Soviet Union correctly meets its copyright duties on Australian films shown in the Soviet Union. It would be bad for public relations between both governments if the copyright duties on a pirate film were not met and it was permitted to be exhibited in Australia. I understand that representations have been made to certain government departments with a view to doing something to prevent the public exhibition df the pirate copy of the film 'Swan Lake' now under the control of Harry M. Miller. I place on record in this Parliament the following questions to the responsible Minister - I do not know whether it would be the. Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  or the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy).  Is the Minister aware that a well known entrepreneur,  Mr Harry  M. Miller, proposes to continue exhibiting in Australia what is believed to be a pirate print of the Russian film industry's version of the ballet 'Swan Lake'? Further, will the Attorney-General inquire into this matter with a view to ensuring that bona fide purchasers of rights to exhibit or distribute such a film are not prejudiced by unfair competitive practices? 
This evening I have been reliably informed by  Mr Murnane  that he has been told that the story is being circulated in the Newcastle district that his copy of 'Swan Lake', legally and properly obtained through Quality Films whose head  Mr Alison  purchased it from the Soviet Union, is 20 minutes shorter than the pirate film being exhibited by Harry M. Miller. This is not true. I hope that the responsible departments now advising my Government will investigate the matter that I have raised. I have spoken to officers of the Attorney-General's Department, the Minister for the Media and the Minister representing the Attorney-General in this House, the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby).  I am grateful that the Minister for the Capital Territory is in attendance to hear what I have to say because I believe the facts given to me this afternoon by my constituent,  Mr Murnane,  are correct. Unfortunately I have not had time to fully verify them and get corroborative evidence, which I am always anxious to do when I raise matters of this nature in the House. I hope that the showing of the illegal print of the film by Harry M. Miller will be curbed properly by my Government and that any injustice being perpetrated on the people who hold the true legal print of the film will be corrected. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Labour. Can he tell the House and me: What is a fat cat? 
Did the Acting Treasurer note a 2.8 per cent increase in the August food group index for the 6 Australian capitals? What caused this lift in food costs and would a prices and incomes policy have any control over this trend? 
My question is directed to the Prime Minster and it is in connection with Australian volunteers for the war in the Middle East. Is the Prime Minister aware that certain Australian nationals have expressed a desire to volunteer to go to the Middle East to assist or fight on the side of one of the warring nations in that tragic war now taking place? Will the Prime Minister use any power at his disposal to prevent any Australian nationals leaving this country to take part on either side of the warring factions in the Middle East? 
I am always interested to listen to the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder),  but particularly in a debate on Aboriginal affairs because I think one can truly say that there are more Aborigines in his Territory than in any other part of Australia. What amazes me is that over the years I have listened to the honourable member for the Northern Territory I have never heard him once refer to the exploitation of the Aboriginal stockmen by the overseas cattle station owners such as Vesteys and other big property owners in the Northern Territory who employ Aboriginal stockmen. 
The honourable member referred to working 16 or 18 hours a day on cattle stations; he said that he knew it was necessary to work those hours to make a go of cattle stations. Vesteys worked Aborigines for those hours and it paid them about 30 bob a month or a very small wage. They probably did not work them on Sundays. They probably conveyed them to church on Sundays and gave them a bit of Christian teaching. They probably heard a part of the Bible that says: 'As thou sowest, so shall thou reap'. But we never hear this from the honourable member for the Northern Territory. He knows that, as a member of the Public Works Committee, I have visited the Northern Territory on numerous occasions. As I see things, sometimes we have gone a little too fast in trying to help the Aborigines. That is my private opinion. I believe that the first 3 things which should be provided for the Aboriginal community are food, clothing and shelter. I sometimes think we are virtually trying to give them a university education before they have been taught proper hygiene. The greatest emphasis should be put on food, clothing and shelter. 
The education should be based to a great extent on films shown to Aborigines at a very early age. No one can use the excuse that in the far distant missions there is inadequate electricity, because I happen to know that from time to time electric generators are sold by the Department of Supply at very reasonable prices. They come in from various departments which have no further use for them. Last Thursday about 5 of them were auctioned by the Department of Supply in Darwin. I venture to say that some of the smarties from the capital cities of the eastern States were there buying them for the lowest possible price, naturally to make the biggest profit. These generators could be used on the outlying missions to teach Aborigines at an early age the benefits and the dangers of electricity and the use of electrical appliances so that when they come to the city they will not be so bewildered. 
I know that all this was in the mind of the former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, now the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant),  because he raised the matter with me and said that he would invoke the potential of the Department of Supply, particularly the valuable material that it sells at its auctions, with a view to lifting the standards of the Aborigines to an all time high at a minimum cost. We spoke about power generators, blankets and sheets. Thousands of yards of sheeting material is sold by the Department of Supply from time to time. About 3 weeks ago there was a gigantic Department of Supply sale at Fyshwick here in Canberra. I know that the former Minister was interested in acquiring these types of thing at a minimum cost, thus saving the taxpayer the heavy burden. It is not rubbishy material; it is very good material that Europeans buy and put through their disposal shops in the cities. The former Minister was interested in invoking the potential of the Department of Supply. 
I think it is true to say that this Parliament, particularly the previous Government, was not greatly interested in Aboriginals until 1967 when the Australian people expressed their opinion when asked in a referendum whether 
Aborigines should be given more assistance. More than 80 per cent of the Australian people said yes. Then the debates have become more vigorous. The Australian people had spoken. The previous Government stepped up its aid to the Aborigines throughout the country. 1 believe that the former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  who is presently in the chamber, would like to have done much more for Aborigines during his term as Minister for Aboriginal Affairs had other members of his Tory party allowed him to do so. But they shackled him, they put hobbles on him and they would not let him gallop. Otherwise he would have done much more for the Aborigines. 
Our Minister for Aboriginal Affairs was unrestricted. Some of the Tories throughout the country - not in our Party - believe that he might have gone too far. However, I believe that the administration of the portfolio of Aboriginal Affairs by the former Minister, the present Minister for the Capital Territory, will go down in history as one of the most pro.pressive steps taken towards helping these indigenous people. Australia has been rapped over the knuckles in the forums of the world for not doing more for her indigenous people. We know that in the olden days there were shooting expeditions on Saturday or Sunday afternoons, when Europeans went out and shot down the Aborigines like foxes or other vermin in our countryside. It pains this generation to read about what previous generations did to our Aborigines. We in the present Government Party are trying to lift them up and we will continue to do so, but I believe that we have to watch and see whether we are going too fast. There are conflicts in the opinions of the greatest experts who have made very deep studies of how to lift up the Aborigines in this country. I believe that it will take us 1 50 years. 
There is one thing that I would like to see this Parliament do - particularly the present Government and the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Enderby)  and the Minister for the Capital Territory. We talk about doing something for the Aborigines. We do not have an Aboriginal waiter or waitress in Parliament House. This is the first place where we should offer training to some of these indigenous people. We do not have one Aboriginal on the staff of attendants at Parliament House. We do not have an Aboriginal girl learning to be a skilled waitress in our dining room. This is the place to start. I want to know how long it will be before we take the most positive step and employ at least one male and one female Aborigine on the staff of this Parliament and let overseas visitors who come here see that some positive step has been taken to train them in the Parliament that purports to be so concerned about the welfare of these indigenous people of our country. 
I wish to participate in this debate on the estimates for the Department of the Capital Territory and the Department of the Northern Territory. I thought I heard over the intercom system the Minister for the Northern Territory say that there had been widespread resignations from the Northern Territory Police Force. 
I see. I have made several visits to the Northern Territory. Earlier today some reference was made in the debate on the estimates for the Department of Aboriginal Affairs to the habit of excessive drunkenness among the Aboriginal population of the Northern Territory. I believe that it is the Europeans who mainly contribute to this habit. Recently, I was in Alice Springs, which is the home town of the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder),  and in a hotel there I saw a fracas taking place between Aborigines. The publican or the hotel staff were taking little or no notice of it whatsoever. I said to one of the residents at Alice Springs: Is it the custom of certain hoteliers just to allow a fight to go on and not care whether a person is severely injured or suffers a fractured skull and then has to undergo hospitalisation?' I was assured by that person that it was just the norm and the people would fight until they were exhausted or one was defeated and ran away. I think that the European licencees in the Northern Territory - if I may use the vernacular - want pulling into line over this sort of thing. Whether it is laxity on the part of members of the police force or whether it is influence in high places that prevents the police force from taking action against licencees of liquor houses in the Northern Territory I do not know. I do not know who is at fault but if I had to make a guess I would say that it is the influential people outside the police force who prevent the police from taking stronger action. 
Last year or the year before in this Parliament in a similar debate to this the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  pointed out in regard to this question of drunkenness among Aborigines in the Northern Territory that there were almost no prosecutions against licencees of liquor houses for selling liquor or serving liquor to a drunken person. It is my belief that this is an offence under the liquor laws of the Northern Territory because it is an offence under the liquor laws of most of the States of the Commonwealth. It might also truly be said that it is not very often that prosecutions take place against licencees of liquor houses in the major States. But one could also say that the serving of liquor to a drunken person in the major States of the Commonwealth is not as prevalent as it is in the Northern Territory. I hope that my remarks on this point will be noted and I should like to hear the honourable member for the Northern Territory who I understand is going to speak in this debate in a moment express an opinion on this matter, as I believe he will. I do not believe that he is a man who is afraid of losing a few votes from the liquor interests in the Northern Territory should he advocate stronger action against them for serving drunken persons. 
I have no doubt that you can hear what I am saying. I believe that the honourable member for the Northern Territory is courageous enough to give an answer to this question. I should like him to tell the House when he speaks how many prosecutions have taken place against the liquor interests in the Northern Territory in the last six or twelve months or the last three or four years for serving drunken persons and, in particular, Aborigines. 
Two friends of mine in whose integrity I have complete faith were working on an Aboriginal mission about 40 miles from Katherine when the previous Government rightly increased social service payments to Aborigines in the Northern Territory. They informed me that on the day the Aborigines received their social service cheques, there was a fleet of taxis from Katherine lined up outside this mission to take them into Katherine. The Katherine Hotel exhausted its supplies of liquor, particularly wine. I have advocated previously in this Parliament and I put the greatest emphasis with the utmost sincerity on this matter again that the missions in the Northern Territory should be persuaded to have wet canteens on their missions. 
I did not mention the name but I believe it is Bamyili. The honourable member for the Northern Territory would know the place I am referring to from even that explanation. 
It is not a mission? 
I believe it is a mission. If it is not a mission it is a place where a large body of Aborigines reside. 
I am saying that the missions in the Northern Territory should be persuaded to have wet canteens where civilised drinking would take place. The honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  supports me in this point of view and I believe that the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  is also sympathetic to my point of view on this question. If the Aborigines were to drink under the supervision of their superiors, there would be less chance of them indulging in gross offensive behaviour. They could not be exploited by ruthless or brutal European taxi drivers, publicans or liquor licensees. 
The narrow minds of the mission people on this subject - I apologise for referring to them as being narrow-minded - must be widened because common sense must prevail. Fancy a hotel selling out of cheap wine and grog at the expense of the unfortunate, uneducated Aborigine. He does not have the make-up to handle money in the proper way as does an intelligent European - or a member of the Liberal Party who would get it and invest it in some enterprise which would pay 10 per cent to 15 per cent. 
Mir JAMES - I understand that members of the Australian Country Party would be likely to do that, too. The Aborigine is shockingly exploited in the Northern Territory, particularly by the liquor interests. If ever I had to vote to nationalise an industry of this country, I would hope it would be the liquor interests of the Northern Territory. 
The honourable member for Chifley rightly refers to them as the rum runners. I hope that the 2 dedicated Ministers at the table, the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant)  and the Minister for Secondary Industry  (Mr Enderby),  will heed what I am saying in connection with this question because I intend to propound in the Parliament, in my Party room and wherever I get an audience that will listen to me the shocking exploitation of the Aborigines in the Northern Territory by the liquor interests. I hope that this situation is corrected at an early date. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Do any Departments employ the simple method used by many industries, such as Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd, in the use of a suggestion box so that any employee may make a written suggestion to improve a Department, or is the old method of submitting a report to superiors maintained which usually has a retardative effect on the employee desirous of improving efficiency. 
My question, Which I direct to the Minister for Overseas Trade, is in connection with the sale of Australian wheat to China. Can the Minister say whether in recent times China has placed a substantial long term order for Australian wheat with the Australian Government? Will this order bring economic stability to the wheat growing areas of this country? 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that police prosecutors in the Courts of Petty Sessions in the Australian Capital Territory are to be replaced by qualified lawyers from the Attorney-General's Department. 
If so, what is the anticipated additional cost of implementing this scheme in a full year. 

 - Mr Speaker, as I did not expect to be called because of the limited time allowed for this debate, I did not do the homework that other speakers in this debate have done. Prior to coming to this Parliament homosexual acts were as repulsive to me as they were to any man. But having read material of the Parliamentary Library and having conversed with men here who have made some study of the problem, I find myself now more tolerant to the homosexual than ever before. I applaud the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  and the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  for bringing this matter before the Parliament. In my view, politicians usually shirk their duties concerning these very serious social questions because they say that there are 'no votes in homosexuals'. I believe that the legalisation of homosexuality was first raised in the Mother Country, Great Britain, by the Wolfenden report which was referred to by the right honourable member for Higgins. To my mind, that report virtually stunned the British people when they were informed of the prevalence of homosexuality in their society. 
Had it not been for a peer or the son of a peer in Great Britain being charged withthe criminal offence of homosexuality, the Wolfenden Committee might never have been created to bring down its report. It was because someone influential in society was involved that the Wolfenden Committee was asked to investigate the extent of homosexuality in Great Britain. Because the British people were stunned, the legislators were not game to bring own legislation or to debate the matter in the House of Commons until many years after the Wolfenden report was submitted. Since then psychiatrists and different sections of people in our society have made a study of the prevalence of homosexuality in the United Kingdom and Australia. It is estimated that one male in 20 is afflicted with homosexual tendencies. In other words, if those figures are correct - I believe them to be correct - there are 6 people with homosexual tendencies among honourable members in this House and 3 in the Senate. 
On the serious side, to any decent, thinking man, blackmail should be more repulsive than any other crime. I have never been blackmailed. No attempt has ever been made to blackmail me. But I know that people with this unfortunate affliction have been blackmailed for many years. That in itself sways me to support the liberalisation of the homosexual laws. Another point that was omitted by the right honourable member for Higgins and the honourable member for Maribyrnong is that our police forces are brought into disrepute when they have to enforce an unpopular law in something with which a person at any level of society could be afflicted. Invariably judges reprimand police officers in court when they enforce the law. We are the ones who should be ashamed because we have not had the courage, the spunk or the guts to liberalise the law and to remove this unpleasant phase of police duties which is repulsive to every decent policeman in the country who has to enforce this law. 
Why is it not enforced today, as has been pointed out? It is enforced today by the police forces of Australia only on the complaint of some citizen. The police feel that, if they do not investigate a complaint, disciplinary measures may be taken against them which may affect their careers in the police force. Reluctantly, they have to enforce this very unpopular law. As we all know, homosexuality is prevalent in Australia today. Many of us live in our ivory towers and never go to the rendezvous frequented by homosexuals. Homosexuals congregate in certain toilets in Sydney and certain meeting places in public parks. I do not believe, as the honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer)  has said, that if this law is passed it will accentuate the growth of homosexuality in our community. I believe to the contrary - that it may induce the habit-forming homosexual to leave the public parks and the toilets knowing that he cannot be blackmailed when he goes to a room to carry out and practise the weakeness that he has, and which, in many cases, homosexuals have fought to overcome. 
It is also true, as has been pointed out by the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass),  that many homosexuals throughout their life fight against the affliction. A very high suicide rate exists among homosexuals because of their inability to overcome this affliction that is either hereditary or which has been brought about by environment. I think there are conflicting opinions on this particular aspect of the subject. I find the homosexual today more to be pitied than criticised. I should like to see a more moderate liberation of the law. I should not like to see homosexual acts removed from the law altogether because from my own personal experience, in my previous profession, I have had to go and knock on the door of decent homes and say to the parents that their 10 or 14-year-old son had been found with an old man in the Sydney domain. I have had the personal experience of having to do that and therefore I should not like to see the homosexual liberated altogether. I do not intend to take up the full time allotted to me in this debate. To those who laugh and to those who criticise we who support this amendment to the law, I want to say that one day they may have a son, a brother, or a near relative afflicted with homosexual tendencies. I am positive that steel bars and grey walls are no place for those unfortunate people who are so afflicted. 
It is not my intention to weary the Committee. I gained an inspiration to say something on this very important question affecting the nation and particularly to advert to the Labor Party's determination to challenge the erosion of the country as the result of polluting the environment. Public alarm throughout the nation to my mind in the last decade has reached an all-time high on the question of pollution and the interest in the natural environment. But in my view it needs to go a lot higher to truly awaken the Australian community as a whole as to the need to stir governments, both State and Federal, and the need to protect the natural environment for future generations. Already we have turned many rivers in Australia into shallow bedded creeks. This has undoubtedly been done by the lack of foresight or the selfishness of previous generations. The cutting down of trees and the reducing of rich grazing lands have also contributed. I will not refer personally to a certain party in the House but I think that honourable members concerned would agree that its forebears, due to lack of thought in cutting down trees and reducing grazing lands to sand dunes has contributed. 
This has been said by very prominent Liberal men in the past. I can remember years ago as a very young man hearing the late Billy Hughes, a former wartime Prime Minister of Australia, putting great emphasis on the fact that grazing lands were being reduced to sand dunes as a result of overstocking, particularly with sheep and cattle, and the cutting down of trees. If we start again to analyse those very wise words of a man that was held in very great regard by the Australian people we stop and think. In the very rich Hunter Valley region on the Hunter River there are lift up bridges which have not been lifted for generations. The honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe)  no doubt would have liked to refer to it had time permitted. In the olden days when the river was easily navigable ships used to pass right up to the city of Maitland. Now that is impossible. 
Why? Because the cutting down of trees and the blowing of the rich soils in dry seasons have reduced the Hunter River in many parts to virtually a creek. 
I believe that the honourable member for Paterson would support me in that view. He probably is more conversant with how far up the Hunter River ships can navigate to bring out their cargoes. I believe that it is a pity that we never had a government, State or Federal, with the interest in conservation and preservation of the natural environment that my Government has shown in this very important subject. We know too that the Darling River also has been affected. I remember at one time I was at Collarenebri and there was a lift up bridge which some of the old timers told me had to be lifted for the steamers which travelled there. 
The honourable member for Paterson says that they took wool from Walgett to Adelaide by water. What do we find today? Even conoeists have to pick up their canoes and carry them on their backs to get around some of the Darling because it is so shallow. Why? Because we have not protected the natural environment. The cutting down of trees and overgrazing have contributed. The fatness of people's purses became more important to them than the preservation of the natural environment. 
I believe that we have to arouse the Australian people. This Government intends to arouse them. The present Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass)  and the Whitlam Administration are taking the most positive determined steps by the creation of the very ministry which the distinguished Minister holds to arouse even more the Australian people's need to support the Government and the Department which is determined to protect the natural environment. In my electorate of Hunter, of course, our greatest problem with the natural environment is coal dust from inferior coal that burns in chitter dumps for years and years once a fire is started by spontaneous combustion. Old disused mines heave out black damp and other gases into the community and old retired miners cannot forget that once they worked down in the bowels of the earth where they developed silicosis and bronchitis. They spend the twilight of their lives still breathing the refuse and poison gases from these burnt out mines. If it is not economical for the mining companies to curb or prevent this nuisance, 1 believe that our Minister for Environment and Conservation will sympathically consider subsidising steps to alleviate the worst of these nuisances. I would not ask him to eliminate all of them because that would be too big a task but perhaps he could subsidise the elimination of some of the poison gases that issue from old mines in our coal mining areas and from the burning chitter dumps. 
We are told that Los Angeles is one of the worst polluted cities in the world as a result of the emission of carbon monoxide from motor vehicles. One could speak at great length on this subject, but it is not my intention to weary the Parliament. I am very proud of my Government, the Whitlam administration, for setting up a Ministry aimed at preservation of the environment and conservation. No government could have made a better choice of a man to head this Ministry than the present Minister. I believe that world indignation on this question was possibly brought about by that great American,  Dr Linus  Pauling, who pointed out in the first place the radioactive fall out from atomic bombs in the form of strontium 90. This awakened the minds of people and they went on to think about the destruction of the natural environment of man. 
When I talk to some of the old time fishermen in Newcastle they tell me that when they were boys of 17 or 18 years they could go around the waters of Lake Macquarie and Myall Lakes and spear fish with a stick. Now crabs and prawns are frequently in short supply. This is attributed sometimes to over fishing and to pollution of natural waters by industry. I believe that Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd has shown great public co-operation. It is not my wont to bestow praise upon that company but I believe that it is trying to meet the public wishes and the wishes of government in reducing air pollution to a minimum. In conclusion I again congratulate my Government for the positive steps it has taken in regard to this important social question and I wholeheartedly and sincerely congratulate the Minister for Environment and Conservation on the task that he is undertaking on our behalf. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
How many domestic rabbit farms are there in 
New South Wales and 
other States. 
What type of rabbit is bred for commercial purposes. 
Has there been limited growth in this industry during the last 10 years; if so, why. 
Do Pasture Protection Boards usually oppose the breeding of domestic rabbits for commercial purposes. 
Are the rabbits commercially bred usually the large white species of New Zealand origin, and is it most unlikely that this species would become a menace if they were to go at large. 
I was inspired to speak by the remarks of the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron).  I think the time is long overdue when this nation decides to stand alone because it has been dragged into successive wars by its allegiance to the great powers. The real reason why the former Government could not recognise the People's Republic of China is that it had condemned the People's Republic of China for so long that it did not want to take a complete political somersault which would have made it appear ridiculous in the eyes of the Australian community and the peoples of the world, particularly of South East Asia. It is as clear as crystal to anyone now that the previous Government was following blindly the foreign policy of the United States. We were complete lackeys to the United States; we were complete puppets of the United States. 
The United States respects the present Australian Government more than it respected the previous Government because we have principle and forthrightness. I one time worked with lackeys. No one will get you into trouble more than a lackey who says: 'Yes, yes, yes. You are right, boss'. You will run into trouble quicker with that man than you will with a man who expresses an independent opinion. America respects this Australian Government because it has expressed an independent opinion. The previous Government heralded the visit to this national capital of a man who is now in disgrace in the United States. I refer to the former Vice  President,  Spiro Agnew. During his visit 16 young Australian boys were arrested. All were of clean character prior to appearing before the court on. that occasion. I think that the supporters of the previous Government, now the members of the Opposition, should hang their heads in shame. The previous Government entertained in Canberra every spiv and every crook from South East Asia. If it was not Air Vice Marshal Ky, it was Park from South Korea. If it was not Park from South Korea, it was Spiro Agnew. If it had had a chance it would have entertained Darcy Dugan on the steps of Parliament House. What did the Prime Minister remind the Parliament yesterday? Before I quote what the Prime Minister said about the shadow Minister for Foreign Affairs in the Opposition, I look at the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  and I remember him sitting over here on the Government benches at one time. 
He will not be saying the things he said and wanted to say. I challenge him to deny this: He advocated that the time was ripe to drop the hydrogen bomb on the People's Republic of China not so many years ago, but he never repeated it because powerful influences went to work - I think it was in the days when  Sir Robert  Menzies was Prime Minister - and warned him never to say it again. He advocated the bombing of women and children in the People's Republic of China, which was figthing for a new way of life. 
What did the Prime Minister remind us of yesterday about the attitude of the shadow Minister for Foreign Affairs, the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)?  What did he say on the television program 'Monday Conference' on 1 October when he was under cross-examination by the interviewers? He said: What is wrong with recognition of the People's Republic of China?' He said that its recognition was a matter of common sense. He was asked whether he believed in the recognition of North Vietnam and he said that it was eminently sensible. He was asked what he thought of the Whitlam Government's recognition of East Germany. He said that he welcomed the recognition of East Germany. This was the response of the shadow Minister for Foreign Affairs to those questions, but it has not been the attitude of members of the Opposition this afternoon in this debate. Obviously there has been a complete change. There is such a rabble opposite that members opposite do not know which way they are going. I would not let any of them lead me to a waterhole if I were dying of thirst. 
I am grateful to honourable members and I will be very brief. I asked the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  - and he agreed with me earlier today to have this document incorporated in Hansard. It refers to Sangara (Holdings) Ltd which is based in New Guinea and of which Stanley Louis Mowbray Eskell is or was the managing director. It is a letter signed by or on behalf of  Mr R.  A. Butler, the  Deputy  Registrar of Companies. It points out the numerous breaches of the Companies Act of New Guinea. 
I am. 
I do not mind if it is examined as long as fair judgment is delivered on it. I thank you again,  Mr Speaker,  and the House for giving me an extension of time. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, in this grievance debate I want to raise a matter that should be the concern of every decent Australian. A week ago today the Vice  President  of the United States of America resigned in disgrace and scandal. He was forced to resign because of his association with crooks. He was a grafter and a friend and associate of grafters. The day after the Vice  President  of the United States resigned the Premier of New South Wales announced that there would be an election in my great State. The Republican Party of the United States has been exposed as a corrupt organisation. The Liberal Party of New South Wales is tainted with the same sort of corruption. The only difference is this: Corruption in America has been exposed and the guilty men are to be punished. Corruption in New South Wales goes unchecked and the guilty men appear in white tie and tails in the company and presence of the Queen of Australia. 
In the United States the former AttorneyGeneral,  Mr John  Mitchell, is now under indictment because of his association with crooks. The people of New South Wales are entitled to know the facts about the asssociation of their Attorney-General,  Mr McCaw,  with the greatest crook and rogue ever to disgrace the Australian business scene. I refer to one Alexander Barton. He was the master crook and he was the friend, associate and adviser of leading Liberals in New South Wales. He was adviser to the firm of which the present Attorney-General of New South Wales was the principal partner. The name still is over the door of those solicitors where all the crooked companies formed by Alexander Barton were fo,med. They were formed in that office. Many of those companies are called MACJOSH which signifies, in abbreviated terms, the words McCaw and Johnston. 
Compared to Alexander Barton, previous scoundrels like Woolcott Forbes, and all those associated with the H. G. Palmer and Co. affair in effect were amateur crooks. They were novices. Barton was virtually a killer barracuda attacking a school of prawns and one of those prawns was, unfortunately, the previous Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon).  Barton floated a huge number of public companies which he manipulated- 
I do not think it was offensive at all. I said that unforunately he was one of these prawns. He was the victim of association. 
If it is offensive to the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  I will withdraw it. Barton floated a huge number of public companies which he manipulated for his own gain. One company would absorb or buy out another without reference to the shareholders and there were all kinds of involved share swapping deals. In all, starting from early 1970, Alexander Barton raised $25. 6m and by 1972 had failed to account for $2'2.6m of his shareholders' money. The Commissioner of Corporate Affairs,  Mr Ryan,  instituted an inquiry into Barton's affairs and submitted an interim report to the AttorneyGeneral,  Mr McCaw,  in the New South Wales Government. Instead of tabling that report in the New South Wales Parliament so that those shareholders could see what had happened to their money,  Mr McCaw  had the Commissioner of Corporate Affairs delegate 2 of his senior inspectors to make an investigation of 36 companies said to be involved, although there were many others that should have been included. Barton, learning just what was in the wind, packed up and escaped overseas. He was tipped off. I ask Parliament to use its common sense as to who tipped off Alexander Barton and caused his quick exit from Australia. 
Barton came to Australia as a refugee from Hungary in 1950 - I suppose as a freedom fighter - under the name of Sandor Buchalter. He obtained work as a plumber and changed his name to Alexander Barton. 

 His first venture into the world of free enterprise, so proudly espoused by the LiberalCountry Party coalition sitting in Opposition here - was to move into the Landmark Corporation. With an eye to the main chance he formed an association with a man named John Bovill, of 36 Drumalbyn Road, Bellevue Hill, a leader of the society set and a man who lived close to and I understand was a neighbour of a former Prime Minister whose name has been mentioned earlier. Barton was soon boasting that he had powerful friends in political circles.  His  rise to riches occurred entirely under the Askin Government. While the  chairman  of directors of Landmark, A. E. Armstrong, was abroad, Barton moved for his ousting and the appointment of himself in his stead.  Mr Armstrong  was a New South Wales Liberal Member of the Legislative Council. 
Barton's first entry into big time on his own came in 1969 when he formed Associated Gem Corporation. This company obtained possession of what was claimed to be the largest opal ever found in the world which was named the 'Desert Flame of Andamooka'. It was claimed to weigh 220 ounces. Barton then decided that the time was ripe to go really big time so he floated a company, Palgrave Corporation Ltd, with an authorised capital of $2,500,000 and the opal from Andamooka as its principal asset. The company had an issued capital of $550,000. The prospectus was a lavish presentation with a photograph of the 'Desert Flame of Andamooka' on the cover. By this time Associated Gem Corporation was a wholly owned subsidiary of Brins Securities Ltd, another Barton enterprise, and the prospectus disclosed that Brins had been sold to Palgrave in return for 200,000 fully paid up 50c Palgrave shares. The prospectus also disclosed that the Palgraves had bought the '.Desert Flame' for $168,000. It was also claimed that an independent valuation had put the valuation of the stone as being excess of $lm. Later it was claimed to be worth $1.5m. 
Barton was a great believer in keeping in with the establishment - the Liberal establishment of Sydney or New South Wales.  His  bank was the Bank of New South Wales, the bank which channels foreign money into the Liberal Party funds.  His  solicitors were McCaw, Johnson &amp; Co. The auditors were another solid establishment firm, Hungerford, Sponer and Kirkhope - the very heart and soul of the Liberal Party in New South Wales. The whole thing was a fraud. It was a fraud from beginning to end. It was a fraud underwritten by leading Liberals. Barton's next venture was Brins Australia Ltd, a firm of merchant bankers and investment counsellors. The directors were Alexander Barton, Thomas Barton and J. O. Bovill. The solicitors, again,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  were none other than McCaw, Johnson and Co. 
Now for Bounty Oil. One of Barton's most ambitious projects was Bounty Oil, incorporated in April 1969 with a paid up capital of $5m, with 50 million shares at 10c each and options for an additional 50 million shares. The directors were J. O. Bovill, Alexander Barton, C. W. Marshall, R. A. Rydge, and J. Stewart. These parties, I understand, were well known to a former Prime Minister of this Parliament. The solicitors again were none other than McCaw, Johnson and Co. -  Sir Robert  Askin's mates. 
Next was Harbourside Oil. Harbourside Oil was floated with a nominal capital of $30m and paid up capital of $2m. Each subscriber to the 20 million shares originally offered was given an option to take up an additional share. The directors were none other than J. O. Bovill,  chairman,  Alexander Barton, C. W. Marshall, R. A. Rydge, and J. Stewart. The solicitors,  Mr Acting Deputy Speaker,  were none other than McCaw, Johnson and Co. Next was Westmoreland Minerals. This was floated in April 1969. The purpose of the company was to engage in mineral exploration in the Northern Territory and Queensland. The directors were J. O. Bovill,  Chairman,  Alexander Barton, C. W. Marshall, R. A. Rydge and J. Stewart. The bankers were the Bank of New South Wales and the solicitors were - wait for it - none other than McCaw Johnson and Co. 
Then there was Jetair Australia Ltd. We in this Parliament have heard something about the Jetair racket before. This crook formed an air charter company which he wanted to become the third airline in Australia's domestic airline set-up- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Berinson)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
The honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  we know, is exceptionally clever at smearing but tonight he has given the best exhibition of smearing that I have heard him give for many a long day. He implied that the Prime Minister is the prisoner of the left wing. The Prime Minister is not the prisoner of any clique or body or left wing or right wing. When the Prime Minister recently appointed an ambassador to the Vatican, did he get the approval of the lift wing to do so? Certainly not. The left wing would not approve of a thing like that. That destroys the argument of the honourable member for Mackellar in one blow. That was the weakest effort he has ever put up in this Parliament. However, I do not intend to waste any more of my time. I want to disclose some facts, not to smear. I shall do so wholly and solely for the purpose of trying to purify our society. I came here with that objective: To purify our society, and to purify society one must constantly expose the rackets of the Liberal forces in this country, whether they be Federal or State. Today I disclosed to the Parliament - and I would never withdraw one word of it - the rackets perpetrated on the people of Australia by Australia's No. 1 master crook - I do not suppose that in my lifetime I shall ever see one of greater criminal talents. I refer to none other than Alexander Barton, who has skipped away out of the country after clipping members of the Australian community who were shareholders in his crook companies of $22.6m. However, I want to say something further about this man Barton and link it with the remarks I made in the grievance debate today. Prior to my time expiring during that debate today I had disclosed the name of another one of the crook companies that was originated by Alexander Barton and his crook partners. The legal advice that was given to the company came from none other than the present Attorney-General of New South Wales,  Mr McCaw. Mr McCaw  has been hobnobbing with other leading Liberals and the Queen in New South Wales during the last week. 
A significant feature of the Barton story is that all the companies he formed were not formed until after Alexander Ewan Armstrong was expelled from the Upper House of the New South Wales Parliament. In 1968 Barton had taken a writ out against Armstrong alleging that Armstrong had threatened to have him murdered. The case went before  Mr Justice  Street in the Equity Court. If my memory is correct, Barton persisted in the court with his allegations. It was stated in the court that Armstrong had played a part in obtaining evidence of collusion by a woman who had admitted committing adultery with MajorGeneral Eskell, a leading Liberal. I believe that he is still the leading Liberal in the Upper House in New South Wales. On 25 February 1969 a motion was introduced into the New South Wales Legislative Council to expel Armstrong for unworthy conduct. Eskell was leader of the Liberal Party in the Liberalcontrolled Council, but no action was taken against him by his Liberal mates. 
I could go on about Corporate Mining Investments, about Halls Peak Ltd, about Citadel Mining and Investment Co. Ltd - about all these phoney companies which McCaw, the New South Wales Attorney-General, acted for. These are the goings-on of people, all involved in the great Liberal Party of New South Wales. These are the kind of people cavorting with the Queen while Australia's Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  was left for an hour in the wind and the rain by Premier Askin. Imagine the outrage of the Fairfax Press and the Packer Press if even the humblest member of the Australian Labor Party were involved in these sorts of dirty doings - adultery, allegations of murder, corruption, bribery and theft. Askin, the Premier of New South Wales, asked his police force to go into the Shortland electorate, as the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr Mackellar)  knows, but his friends in crime go scot-free. I want to shoot this home positively and definitely: Throughout the Barton operation one name comes up every time, and that is the name of the firm of solicitors - McCaw, Johnson and Co. McCaw is the AttorneyGeneral of New South Wales and has claimed repeatedly in Parliament that he has had no connection with the firm of McCaw, Johnson and Co. since 1965. I now want to read a letter written by a lady to a member of Parliament, but before I do so let me point out that as reported at page 419 of the New South Wales Parliament Hansard of 22 August  Mr McCaw  denied that he had had any connection with the firm of McCaw, Johnson &amp; Co. since 1965. But listen to what this distinguished lady has said in writing to a State member. She said: 
On 29.7.70, at about 9 a.m., I was in the Offices of Johnson, McCaw &amp; Co. re Blue Mountains City Council v. Power. This matter involved a property at Hazelbrook. I was in the office of  Mr Boland  talking with him. The door was closed. A knock on the door came.  Mr Boland  went to it, opened it -  Mr McCaw,  the Attorney-General himself.  Mr Boland  returned to the office and got some papers. He left his office and went out for about 10 minutes. Returning he said to me- 
That is the signer of this letter - 
My partner wanted to sign cheques before he went to a funeral.' This was  Mr McCaw.  I have repeatedly heard  Mr McCaw  deny any interest in this legal firm since 1965. He does so in Parliament on 22.8.73. 

 Mr Boland directed me to the Public Solicitor to see  Mr Bland  and at once he himself phoned  Mr Bland  and gave him details of the Blue Mountains City 
Council's action involving fraud regarding a Hazelbrook home and by this Council. I then saw  Mr Bland  who told me he will get in touch with the Council and book it for selling this property. 
I ask the Minister for Secondary Industry whether he is aware of a report attributed to the former member for Parramatta,  Mr Justice  Bowen, wherein he said, among other things, that nationalisation of the legal profession was favoured by some Federal Ministers. Also in the report he added that contrary to popular belief there were not enough lawyers in the Federal Parliament, certainly not enough good ones. 
Does the Minister agree with these remarks attributed to  Mr Justice  Bowen? 
I am pleased to contribute to the debate on the important estimates of the Postmaster-General's Department, for which the Treasurer has allocated an amount of some $l'8m for the next 12 months. The honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes)  sought to emphasise that country people have been persecuted by the withdrawal of certain concessions they had in regard to telephones.  His  remarks called to my mind that when the Bill dealing with this matter was before Parliament, the Liberal 
Party took very little objection to the minor rise in telephone rentals and costs to country people. The main protest by Liberal members when the Bill went through the House was directed against the higher charges levied on country newspapers. To my mind the honourable member for Barker, probably because of his extended time as a member of this chamber, puts himself forward as just another professional politician. 
He might be in your view, but that would not be the view of the majority of members in this chamber. The Opposition is trying to establish that the slight increases in telephone charges imposed on country people are cruel and unjust. I do not believe that they are. The people I know in the country feel that they have been very kindly treated by the Parliament over a long period of years. However, the Liberal Party would never have acceded to the concessions granted to country people had it not been for members of the Country Party who imposed their influence on the Liberal Party in the coalition that ruled this country for so long. The Country Party, in its desire to hold seats for its members, sought unjustifiable concessions for country people. These became embarrassing to country people, making them feel that they were imposing on the people of the metropolis and people in industrial areas. The concessions granted to country people embarrassed them. 
Because the Postmaster-General's Department has a substantial say in the administration of radio and television, I put before the Committee a matter from my electorate concerning the memory of a great Australian, the late  Sir William  Dobell. To all Australians, from the time they leave their mother's breast until they go to the great architect above, the name Dobell is synonymous with greatness.  Sir William  Dobell lived in the industrial coalmining area of Wangi Wangi in the heart of the Hunter electorate, and shortly before his death I had the honour of enjoying the richness of his company, which was something the Liberals did not have.  His  home, where he did most of his paintings, is being preserved for posterity. I should like to read from a letter that was written to me by a public spirited man,  Mr Ray  Lloyd, of Wangi Wangi, who says: 
As you know, I am the Wangi representative on the  Sir William  Dobell Memorial Committee. You may he aware that we are buying this home and studio as an historical memorial to one of Newcastle and districts great men. We borrowed the money from the NSW Bank of $10,000 and are paying it off at $120 a month. 
I should imagine that it would be a great thing if this letter were read over the media, which is virtually under the control of the Postmaster-General's Department. If some television or radio station would do this it would be a good thing, but of course they are under the control of private enterprise and there would be no profit in reading a letter like this. I have no doubt that if the contents of the letter could be made known, the response from the community would relieve the plight of the administrators of the Dobell home. The letter continues: 
Most of this money is being obtained through entrance fees and sales. A big percentage of our visitors are large groups of school children, throughout the area. These are presented with a pictorial record of material which we have acquired. We would like to improve this facility of showing great numbers of coloured slides of a complete range of his craft and also a coloured movie loaned by Qantas depicting  Sir William  painting and discussing his painting in his studio at Wangi plus a dialogue on various examples of his work. 
I am asking whether this letter could be read over the media, which is under the control of the Postmaster-General's Department. Therefore it is relevant to the estimates before the Committee.  Mr Lloyd  continues: 
We have just written a similar letter to the Australian Council for the Arts hoping they could supply us with a grant to aid us to get a sound projector and similar aids to carry out these ambitions. 

 Mr Lloyd then said that he was writing the letter in the hope that I might be able to assist him. 
No, although it would have been cheap at that. As the PostmasterGeneral's Department has control of radio and television, this is a matter that falls within these estimates. Having visited Latin America in 1962 I was convinced that all Australians should be proud of our Postmaster-General's Department. I had posted some letters in Brazil, a Latin American country, 3 weeks before leaving for home, but when I got home many of those letters had not arrived. I sent telegrams to people in different parts of Latin America, and they arrived 2 or 3 days after I had sent them. I think it is a great advantage to members of Parliament after they go overseas to come back and be able to draw comparisons between the efficiency of postal departments in other parts of the world and that of our own Postal Department. If we all were frank and for a moment could drift away from professional politics I think we would all admit that we are proud of our PostmasterGeneral's Department. 
While I was a member of the Public Works Committee I had the pleasure of listening to executive officers of the Postmaster-General's Department giving evidence before that Committee. I was satisfied that they were dedicated, highly qualified men. I believe that the Postmaster-General's Department will continue to maintain its very high standard of efficiency, particularly under the administration of the present Postmaster-General who I believe will exceed in efficiency any other Postmaster-General who has held this high office in the past. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Luchetti)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I will endeavour to keep my remarks at the same tempo as did the honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley).  I congratulate him on his submissions in the Grievance Day debate in which he put stress on inequality between men and women. But I think that the honourable member for Chisholm, in fairness, must agree that the Australian Labor Party has led the field in eliminating areas of inequality between man and woman in our country and in following the principles of the International Labour Organisation. 
I want to make some submissions to the House today in the knowledge that what I say is now being considered by business and political advisers in Australia and Japan. It is my wish, and I believe that of the overwhelming majority of the electors of Hunter, that soon the proposals being considered by Japanese political leaders and industrialists will become a reality. I refer to the black coal industry, particularly on the Maitland coalfields and in the Hunter Valley of New South Wales, which since the early 1960s has been slowly dying because of the lack of markets for high quality gas coal and because of the intrusion of oil into the gas coal industry and the introduction of modern coal extraction machines that reduce the work force by onehalf to two-thirds, causing a great deal of chaos in the transition period. This has brought about an unparalleled gloom in the northern coalfields area, but owing to the initiative, forthrightness and honesty of the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  strong possibilities for the northern coalfields to live again might be a reality in the foreseeable future. Because of the Minister's frankness with them, the Japanese Government and industrialists are seriously considering investing in the process of obtaining petrol and oil from coal from the northern New South Wales coalfields, a course of action which was recommended to them by the Minister. They are prepared to act in accordance with the Australian Whitlam Government's guidelines that 51 per cent ownership of such an industry should remain in Australian hands. All Australians know that petrol and oil can be successfully extracted from coal, but up to the present time it has never been an economic proposition. At present there is a world energy crisis, of which all members of this House are aware. The Arab States, because of their conflict with Israel, are restricting the supply of petroleum products to unfriendly countries. It is the intention of the Arab States to raise substantially the price per barrel of Middle East oil and this, I hope, will revive the coal industry in my area with the initiation by the Minister of a modern plant to extract oil from coal. 
I believe that the coal industry today stands on the threshold of a period of great challenge and opportunity. On the one hand, it is challenged by the nationwide problem of complying with stringent regulations regarding pollution. On the other hand, it is faced with the opportunity of creating a new source of synthetic liquid fuels to meet the growing world needs. Particularly in the United States new technology is becoming available which can realistically allow some countries, and particularly the United States coal industry, to achieve these objectives. The hydrogenation process, for instance, is an attractive new method for the manufacture of low sulphur liquid fuels from coal. 
Air pollution laws in the United States have created problems for the United States coal industry. Low sulphur coal is demanded, and because the United States industry's coal markets have been threatened by its inability to supply coal that will comply with the stringent low sulphur coal specifications required in many and an increasing number of areas, there is emerging in the United States a brand new market which the Australian coal industry can develop realistically and profitably. The United States realises that its domestic needs for liquid fuels cannot continue indefinitely to be filled by domestic suppliers. Therefore the United States oil magnates have been turning their interests to coal for the purpose of supplementing their fuel and energy needs. One could measure Australia's liquid fuel needs by those of the United States, which expects to consume 2.2 billion barrels per year by 1980. In the absence of the discovery of new oil basins, coal remains the most natural alternative. I welcome the initiative of the Minister for Minerals and Energy in stimulating interest by the Japanese Government and industrialists in sharing in the development of northern coal for the creation of a modern plant to extract oil from coal. The cost of such a plant is estimated at about $400m, an expenditure which, at this time in Australia's history, would be too great for our nation to contemplate. 
The Minister for Minerals and Energy has been the target of much unfair criticism in recent times. This criticism, in my view, has only projected his earnest in pursuing Labor Party principles. He has shown a determination to use Australian natural resources in the best interests of Australian people. This man, who has been depicted by the misleading media and anti-Labor politicians as a fumbling, irresponsible failure appeared on television recently, and he wiped the floor with his critics, slaughtered his opponents and finished with the greatness of Gala Supreme. Capable, informed and determined, he created an image of being the type Australia needs for the long hard task of winning back, and judiciously rationing with future needs in mind, control of vital national assets that anti-Labor governments have been losing to overseas interests. 
I am proud of my Government's achievements in education, social services, giving local government direct access to the Loan Council and in establishing the Grants Commission which will relieve the financial burden on local government councils which have been starved of funds for far too long. Under the administration of  Mr Whitlam  bridges are being built between East and West. The countries of our region respect us more than ever. The most populous country on earth - China-now respects us and it has taken its seat in the United Nations. The Australian Government is using its influence on leaders of countries big and small. They have begun to turn their old divisions into co-operation. We are in the infancy of world order, but immense progress has already been achieved. If all leaders of nations and all men of goodwill will join their hearts, their wills and their efforts, surely permanent peace will at long last be given to all the peoples of this earth. I am a supporter of a Government which realises the problems of the Australian people, a Government to whom the burdened heart may pour forth its sorrows, to whom distress may prefer its suit, whose head is guided by justice and whose heart at all times is expanded by benevolence. 
Is the Minister for Immigration aware that that master racketeer, spiv, confidence man, company director and international crook, one Alexander Barton, who cheated Australian shareholders out of $21m before fleeing Australia is now travelling Europe on Australian passport No. G.528710 and is staying at luxury hotels, drinking scotch at $2 a throw and eating steaks at $10 each? 
This afternoon the Parliament involved itself in another very interesting debate on the welfare of Aborigines. I believe that the debate was conducted on a high plane and that very little Party politics was resorted to, as was mentioned by the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder).  But I am somewhat disappointed- 
Thank you for your guidance,  Mr Speaker.  The matter on which I wish to speak is this: I do not think that honourable members on either side of the House realise the tragic plight of Aborigines generally in the Northern Territory as a result of the manner in which they are indulging in the use of alcoholic beverages. I would be very happy to see honourable members interest themselves more in this growing problem among Aborigines. Some of our news writers have interested themselves in the problem. In recent times several articles have been written referring to the Yirrkala Aboriginal people, large numbers of whom can be found lying under the trees outside the Walkabout Hotel at Gove after having spent practically the whole of their $30 or $40 a week or a fortnight, whatever it is that they receive, on alcohol, then going back to the missions and beating up their female partners. I think that honourable members must interest themselves in this problem before it becomes more acute. 
I do not know the answer, but I would like to see the liquor interests prevailed upon to agree to persuade Aborigines who have had a fair quantity of alcohol to go home. I believe that if the liquor interests will not play ball with that request made by responsible authorities, action should be taken. Provision is made in a Northern Territory ordinance for the prosecution of liquor interests who serve a drunken person. There is a vast legal difference between an intoxicated person and a drunken person, as the lawyers in the House would know. From my humble learnings of the law - the little bit which I did - a drunken person is a person who is so affected by alcohol that he is incapable of properly controlling himself or his affairs. In other words, he is staggering about; he cannot walk straight; he is falling over. If the liquor interests continue to serve a person who gets to that stage, I believe that the law should be invoked, with all the severity which it provides. The liquor interests should incur a very savage penalty for the first offence of serving a drunken person. For the second offence  a  licensee should lose his licence. 
I had only 5 minutes to speak on this matter tonight because the Parliament concludes its business for the day at 1 1 p.m. I hope that honourable members will interest themselves in this problem of over-indulgence in alcohol by Aborigines in the Northern Territory. None of us would suggest barring them from drinking, but we should prevail upon the liquor interests to desist from serving drunken Aborigines or otherwise incur a very severe penalty. I believe that something can and should be done, and it should be done immediately, in relation to this problem. 
House adjourned  at  II  p.m. 
I appreciate the submission made by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  about the impending locust menace, particularly in New South Wales. I want to mention another menace. It is not an insect locust; it is a human locust. The locusts mentioned by the honourable member for Mackellar clean out pastures, but the locusts to which I want to refer clean out pockets, particularly the pockets of decent Australian shareholders who invest in companies which they believe to be companies of integrity but which turn out to be companies of ill repute. In his concluding remarks the honourable member for Mackellar urged the necessity for more legislative resources to be made available to combat the type of locusts to which he referred. During my remarks I want to put emphasis on the fact that we need more legislative resouces, implemented by this Parliament, to combat the 2- legged or human locusts that have lowered the name of Australian companies throughout our land and overseas. 
The matter I desire to raise today is in furtherance of my remarks relating to dishonest companies formed by the Alexander Barton group which has clipped the Australian shareholders of some $21m and which the Liberal Government of New South Wales appear to condone. 1 ask: What has Alexander Barton got on the New South Wales Liberal Government? If no action is taken soon by that Government the answer in my mind will be clear. It will be that it was there for the Askin. As a result of my exposure of the shocking company rackets perpetrated by Alexander Barton under Liberalism in New South Wales I have received a letter relating to other companies. I will read the letter to the House. The writer has asked me not to disclose his name. I am prepared to show the letter to you,  Mr Speaker,  and to my Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam). 
I have not got that much faith in the Country Party yet. However it may build up as the years go on. The letter reads: 
The honourable member for Maranoa may regret he has said that. It has gone down on the record. If one looks at the Australian' of 17 September 1973 one will find certain facts. The Petersen family has obtained, through another private company, around 1.8 per cent of the shares in Oilmin, formerly Exoil. The private company is Artesian Basin Oil Co. Pty Ltd which was formed in 1959 by  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  the Premier of Queensland. He did this to hold prospective oil areas which were spotted during low level flying over certain tracts of land in Queensland. Shortly after the formation of this company, Joh Bjelke-Petersen, the Premier of Queensland, was joined on the board of Artesian Basin Oil by the present  Chairman  of Oilmin, formerly Exoil. I refer to none other than  Mr Charles  William Siller M.B.E. Is it any wonder that our Prime Minister terminated the granting of titles?  Mr Siller  is the  Chairman  of the company. The public issue of16 million shares in Oilmin, formerly Exoil, went to the Artesian Basin company which received a total payment of $280,000 for the transfer to Exoil of authority to prospect lease No. 76P. An amount of $250,000 was to be used to take up one million Exoil shares. Artesian Basin Oil has since made a number of capital reductions to its shareholders, enabling Joh Bjelke-Petersen to take out about $24,000 in cash from the company. 
I believe that, because Australia has a bad record in the eyes of the world for allowing shady or crooked companies to exist in this country, the time is long overdue for action to be taken. Canada now has tight company laws. In Canada all companies have to prove to their shareholders and to the Government how they spend the shareholders' money. Canadian based companies may function successfully in the United Kingdom and in Ireland. People invest in them knowing that they are rigidly controlled. It is time that the Australian Government implemented rigid controls and uniform company laws. I hope that my Government will do this early next year and will strive to restore in the eyes of the world some respect for Australia's name. 
The honourable member for Barton reminds me that my Government has promised to bring in such measures. I hope that this will have the backing of every member of this House, because of the disgusting scandals that arise from time to time in respect of Australia's crooked companies. In the short time remaining to me in this debate I would like to quote from the annual report of Oilmin. On the last page it says: 
The firm of Spry Walker &amp; Co., of which  Mr. L.  W. 'Doggett is a member, has received professional fees for work done for the company during the year. 
Fees totalling $8,000 (1972 $8,000) were paid for professional and administrative services rendered to the company by  Mr C.  W. Siller. 
So Doggett O.B.E. and Siller M.B.E. are, as I pointed out to the House earlier, receiving handouts but the shareholders are not told what the money is actually for. In addition  Mr Doggett  is a partner in the legal firm of Spry Walker and Co. which does the legal work for Oilmin. I hope that what I have submitted to the House today will bring to the attention of all members of Parliament and to the community in genera] the urgent necessity for uniform company laws to be implemented by this Parliament to minimise the racketeering that is going on and the shady dealings in connection with companies. 
Has the Minister for Health noted widespread comment in support of cheap, even free, and easily accessible vasectomy operations for men? Is he concerned that in the event of such a development promiscuity may be encouraged among young men? In such an event, has he any proposals for the preservation of the virtue and moral rectitude of the young men of our society? 
The honourable member for Kennedy, who has just sat down, is well known to members of this House as a member who speaks with 2 voices. He speaks in this Parliament with a reactionary voice, but when he goes to his electorate, particularly to Mount Isa, he is known to speak in favour of socialism. He has been able to get away with it for some time, but it is an old saying that one can fool all the people some of the time and some of the people all the time, but one cannot fool all the people all the time. In the not too distant future, when some members on this side find time to go to his electorate, they might well expose him. 
He mentioned a short time ago in his address to the House on this important Bill what had happened in Chile when the Chilean Government took over the copper mines there. However, he did not tell the House of the exorbitant profits made by the multi-national organisations that owned and controlled the mines in Chile, and of the events that caused the people of Chile, during the term of the late  Mr Allende,  to take control of the natural resources of the country so that those downtrodden people who had been shockingly exploited over the years in working virtually for peanuts for the benefit of Uncle Sam would receive justice. He did not say that an industrial strike occurred in his electorate at Mount Isa some years ago at a time when the profits of the Mount Isa mines bad reached an all-time high. When the employees responsible for the accumulation of high profits asked for their share of the cake, strong action was taken against them and they were virtually locked out. The reactionary Queensland Government of the day passed laws that stunned the Australian people and were withdrawn from the statute book after a very brief period of existence. One trade union man was even prevented from returning to Mount Isa to visit his wife and children. 
We did not hear the voice of the. honourable member for Kennedy being raised against that injustice. The Communist Party has not been outlawed in this country. It is a political party which the people of Australia said time and time again should not be outlawed, otherwise we would not be a true democracy. 
I do not support it, but I stick out for justice. The honourable member for Kennedy is the Janus-like member of this House who shows, through his political activities, 2 faces. I support the Bill, and I must place on the records of the Parliament my great admiration for the honesty and forthrightness of the honourable member for Cunningham, the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor).  This is one of the most progressive steps that have taken place in this Parliament in more than 2 decades. The Australian people will have an equity in a Godgiven resource. This comes close to my heart, as I was reared on the northern coalfields of New South Wales. Old coalminers speak today of the millions of tons of coal lost for all time by the rip-out methods of private enterprise in years gone by. The coal was ripped out of the ground by the quickest possible method for the highest possible profit to the shareholders, but to the detriment of this and future generations. Every decent member of this Parliament should find this deplorable. 
We protect our forests, and we should protect our natural resources in the same way. One cannot take an axe to the bush today to chop down trees at random. The forests are protected by progressive governments which have introduced forestry control with forestry departments administered by the States. The same situation should exist with our natural resources, and it will exist under a Labor administration and under the control of the Minister now at the table. We have been reminded that more than $400m of the Australian taxpayers' money has been spent in the past On exploration for oil and petroleum products without our having a share in it. The honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Viner)  is a lawyer and can usually speak on any subject, and on either side of that subject. He has been trained to do that as part of his lawyer's job. He points out that we have had some return for this $41 9m spent by the Australian taxpayer; that is how the lawyer from Stirling handled the alternative argument. Would it not have been a shocking thing if we had got no return at all? 
The world knows that there is petroleum in the land mass of Australia and off-shore. When I was in the Soviet Union in 1962 I was told that a Soviet geologist had done some research in Australia, with the authority of the Australian Government, and he had said there must be petroleum products off-shore and in the land mass of Australia. He had submitted a report about it, but because it came from a Soviet geologist no use was made of it. In those days it was regarded as politically traitorous to talk about the achievements of the Soviet Union. The honourable member for Stirling puts great emphasis on his statement that we have got equity because we are 68 per cent self-sufficient in petroleum products. I suppose the honourable member for Stirling would have been happy if the companies involved had got our subsidies and shot off out of the country, doing another Alexander Barton, and leaving the Australian Government and the shareholders out on a limb. They will not get that opportunity with government equity, because the Government will have constant surveillance on the research and achievements of the petroleum companies. 
We have been told by the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  that we are driving away these international companies with the know-how and the equipment to search for petroleum products. It has never been said in this House yet but I take the risk of saying - it is my own personal view - that if I thought something serious would happen to the Australian nation as a result of these people with the know-how - the multi-national corporations which are well equipped to search for oil - leaving us out in the cold in the search for oil, I would urge my Party to confer with the Soviet Union with a view to using its geologists, its equipment and its know-how to search for petroleum products and natural gas on the Australian land mass or in the offshore regions of the Australian continent. Some years ago in the Parliamentary Library in an international magazine I read an article which dealt with India and Pakistan finding themselves urgently in need of new discoveries of petroleum products. The Soviet Union offered to drill for petroleum on behalf of those countries and said it would not lay any claim to the petroleum it found. As a result of this offer by the Soviet Union the international petroleum company supplying petroleum products to India and Pakistan reduced the price of its products so that those countries would not show interest in the Soviet Union carrying out further searches for oil. I would hope that some other members on either side of this House would express their views on this matter and let the records of the Australian Parliament record their attitude on this matter. If the international consortiums are going to leave us out in the cold they should be told that there are members of the Australian Parliament who are prepared to ask the Government to reconsider its attitude on asking the Soviet Union to search for petroleum in our region. 
I think this Bill will go down in history as something to which the Australian people have been looking forward. Not many Australians today are aware of the fact that although we have spent more than $400m on the search for petroleum we have not got one share in the natural resources which have been discovered. They are commonly referred to as God given resources'. They are not manufactured or invented by man. They have been lying underneath the surface of the earth and underneath the beds of the ocean probably for millions of years. It is because of today's technology that they are able to be gathered for the benefit of mankind. We are told, and we are all aware of the fact, that there is a world energy crisis. I hope that natural gas and petroleum products will keep Australia going for many years without having to resort to the use of nuclear power because I can see problems in the disposal of nuclear waste. It is a problem to which no country has found a posi tive answer. An article in an American magazine dated 23 February 1973 states: 
The earth-burial system is far from a desirable one. There is no guarantee that these nuclear cemeteries will not be accident prone, or that the steel caskets will hold indefinitely, or that an earthquake or some other disturbance of nature will not set off a devastating nuclear-shower. 
The complications connected with earth-burial are so enormous as to have set off hunts in numerous directions for alternative methods of disposal. This has produced some exotic suggestions, like shooting the wastes off into space or to some far away planet (What happens if a disposal rocket is faulty and explodes on take-off, or if it takes an earth course and has to be destructed?) . . . 
These are good questions. The article states that no one has yet found the answer to them. We cannot dispose of nuclear wastes in the Antarctic, which has been suggested by some people, because the Antarctic Treaty of 1959 prevents this being done. I would not support a breach of the Antarctic Treaty of 1959. Members of the Opposition pour criticism on the Government and accuse it of galloping towards socialism. This Government is conscious of the views of the Australian people. It will implement socialism only when it believes it is acceptable to the Australian people. Like the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  I do not hide the fact that this Bill gives the Australian community part ownership in the production and distribution of off-shore petroleum products of Australia. Yes, it is a leaning toward the socialist principles of the Labor Party and I believe it is a timely and progressive leaning because capitalism throughout the ages has virtually failed the nations of the world. The book entitled Tory M.P.' by Simon Haxey points out how the munition makers of the world were controlled by private enterprise and were in the hands of many British politicians. They had shares in German munition works and Germany had shares in British munition works including Vickers and the like. I believe that private enterprise domination of the economy, particularly domination of that type has been partly responsible for some of the devastating and shocking wars in which most countries and particularly this country have been involved. When the people control the important natural resources of their nations I believe there is little possibility of those nations being involved in world blood baths. 
In my view Russia has a better record and I have more confidence in it to maintain world peace today than I had in the Nixon, Johnson and Kennedy Administrations of the United States. This was not only the thinking of the honourable member for Hunter, it was also the thinking of very prominent statesmen and leading British citizens of the Lord Russell type and others who have a certain following throughout the world. 
You will not go to your electorate and criticise Chairman Mao now that this Government has established a $600m wheat deal with that country, a $300m sugar deal and a 20,000 ton iron ore agreement. 
asked the Minister for Supply, upon notice: 
What organisations are permitted to tender for surplus Commonwealth goods submitted to his Department for disposal. 
Are surplus Commonwealth goods in Papua New Guinea sent back to Australia for disposal; if not, how are they disposed of. 
Has the Minister for Overseas Trade seen reports of a letter by  Sir Robert  Norman, Chief General Manager of the Bank of New South Wales, to bank officials in which  Sir Robert  claims that the new legislation for the Australian Industry Development Corporation would mean that 'the powers would be there for the Government through the AIDC to take over large segments of private industry without their consent'? Is that a correct and intelligent assessment of the legislation itself and of the Government's intentions by this would-be distinguished 'bunker'? 
I want to raise several matters in the limited time available to me. Two are of a minor nature and one is of a more important nature. Late last year I disclosed to the House that one of Australia's greatest crooks had absconded from Australia and left shareholders in the lurch to the extent of $22.2m. The Commissioner of Corporate Affairs in New South Wales,  Mr Ryan,  in his report listed the following companies as having accumulated those losses: Bounty Oil Ltd, Citadel Mining, Halls Peak, Harbourside Oil Ltd, Hargrave Corporation and Westmoreland Oil. On the board of directors of four of those companies was a man named J. O. Bovill, together with two prominent men who have been sought by the New South Wales Government and who are now in South America. In the last few days it has come to my knowledge that  Mr J.  O. Bovill could possibly be seeking a passport so that he can leave Australia in the immediate future. If that is the case, I appeal to my Government not to issue  Mr Bovill  with a passport until this matter, which is causing great concern to Australians in general, is cleared up. 
I applaud my Government for the progressive steps that it is taking in carrying out its pre-election promises. I believe that the action of my Government in bringing  Dr Nyerere  to Australia is worthy of the highest credit. Even the coldest hearted Liberal must have been impressed with the speech which that sincere man gave at the luncheon in the parliamentary dining room yesterday. I think we must all admit that he has a great struggle on his hands. He represents people whose average yearly income is $50, $60, or $70. 
It was with regret that I learned of the tragedy that is occurring in the Liberal Party. A new breakaway party has been formed with a Liberal senator,  Senator Hannan,  as its leader.  Senator Hannan  has always been regarded by most members of the Labor Party as being a very truthful man. He claims to be leading a team of Liberals in a breakaway group which is to be known as the National Liberal Party. People who have been mentioned as intending to join this new party include  Mr Neil  Brown, a former member of this House.  Mr Bill  Haworth is another man who is reported as intending to join  Senator Hannan's  National Liberal Party.  Mr Alec  Buchanan, who was very popular with members of the Australian Labor Party, and  Mr Jess,  a former member for La Trobe, and Peter Howson - all former members of this House - I believe are considering joining the new Hannan party. 
I do not think David would join; his principles are too high for that; however, my main reason for rising is to reply to what I think was a very unworthy attack - I try to be modest in using the word 'unworthy' - by the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  recently when he accused our Party of being a 'jobs for the boys' Party. I have done considerable research since that speech was delivered by the honourable member for Boothby. The greatest tribute I can pay to him is to say that he had a very good father who was highly respected in this House and I do know that he shows some affection for his mother. I believe that he comes from good stock. 
As a result of my research I have prepared a white paper which I want to refer to in the House. It sets out the names of outstanding members of the Liberal Party who got a payoff from the Liberal Government down the ages. Due to the very nature of the paper I shall start from the bottom.  Mr Dan  Mackinnon, a former member of this House, was appointed as Australian Ambassadaor to the Argentine. Dame Annabelle Rankin was appointed as Australian High Commissioner to New Zealand not so long ago. I shall make no further reference to the present GovernorGeneral due to the high position in the nation which he holds.  Sir Garfield  Barwick was another Liberal Party member. He was appointed as Chief Justice of the High Court of Australia because he got out of step with  Sir Robert  Menzies in relation to foreign policy. 
He is not under attack. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The honourable member for Hunter will be out of order in any criticism of the judiciary. 
I cast no aspersions on the judiciary,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I accept your ruling. I said that  Sir Garfield  Barwick was appointed by the Liberal Party as Chief Justice of the High Court of Australia. He was a former member of this House. I make no reference to him being allocated a job in the manner indicated in the remarks of the honourable member for Boothby. Of course, the 2 legal eagles who diligently carried out their duties and did a good job for the Liberal Party finished up with appointments to the High Court of Australia.  Mr Fred  Chaney, a man for whom I have great respect, received from the Liberal Government an appointment as administrator of the Northern Territory.  Mr Roger  Dean a former member for Robertson - he was succeeded by the present member for Robertson,  Mr Cohen  - was appointed as Consul-General in San Francisco. 
The honourable Gordon Freeth was appointed Australian Ambassador to Japan.  Mr Bill  Arthur, after he was defeated in the electorate of Barton, was appointed by the then Prime Minister the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  to his staff.  Mr Brown,  a former member of his House, was appointed to the staff of  Mr Harold  Holt.  Sir Howard  Beale, a member of this House years ago, was appointed by the Liberal Administration to be our Ambassador to Washington. I will pass no remarks about Lord Casey. We know the honour which was bestowed on him. He was referred to in my electorate as the Bengal tiger. I think he was appointed by the United Kingdom Government as the Governor of Bengal. 
I am not talking about that. The subject is jobs for the boys from the Liberals.  Sir Alexander  Downer, one of the wealthiest men ever to be a member of this House, was appointed High Commissioner to London,  Sir Eric  Harrison, a former High Commissioner and member for Wentworth, was appointed by the Liberal Party,  Mr Ian  Allan, a former member for Gwydir for whom I have very great respect, was appointed  Chairman  of the Commonwealth War Graves Commission by the Liberal Party.  Sir John  Spicer was appointed Chief Judge of the Industrial Court by the Liberal Party. Honourable members can see the work that I have put into this white paper.  Sir Hubert  Opperman was appointed by the Liberal Party as our Ambassador to Malta. Percy Joske was appointed to the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory. He is a former Liberal member of this House.  Mr Frank  Davis, highly respected by all honourable members and an outstanding Liberal, was appointed  Chairman  of the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Commission in recent years by the Liberal Party. 
I am talking about jobs for the boys. The honourable member for Boothby had the temerity to raise this subject. I wish he was here tonight. I sent word to him through the Whip and I understand that he is missing although he had prior notice. I regret to learn that Joe Gullett is very ill. He is a former outstanding Liberal and he was appointed as our Ambassador to Greece.  Mr Julian  Doyle, a former Liberal MLA, was appointed a trade commissioner and was replaced by Athol Guy, of Melbourne, in the State seat of Gisborne. 
I have a list. The present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  was conditioned by the Liberal Party before being elected to the Parliament by being made a migration selection officer in London. The Liberals nurse them both before and after their service to the Party. 
ls the Minister for Health aware of the existence of a pamphlet put out by American drug companies, offering 101 per cent marks-ups to buyers of certain drugs if they buy in substantial quantities? Is he aware that this method is being adopted to increase their share of the drug market in Australia at the expense of the local manufacturers? Does he intend to do anything to prevent further erosion of the position of the Australian drug producers which is to the advantage of overseas, foreign drug companies? 
Will the Minister for Transport ascertain whether a prominent New South Wales Queen's Counsel who was a close associate of Alexander Barton, obtained a series of Department of Civil Aviation permits to fly a plane outside Australia and whether he was acting as a courier for Alexander Barton in transporting Barton's illgotten gains from the companies he had defrauded? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the AttorneyGeneral. I preface it by saying that I wish to express the feelings of thousands of decent Australian citizens defrauded by professional crook company directors and others who seem to have commenced a yearly migratory flight to Brazil because of the absence of any extradition treaty between Australia and Brazil. Will the Minister make urgent representations to the Brazilian Government with a view to negotiating a reciprocal extradition treaty to bring to justice reputed swindlers such as Barton, Sommers and a well-known Sydney solicitor who are reported to be living in Brazil on the proceeds of their ill-gotten gains from Australian citizens, and to see that they are returned and are tried according to Australian law? 
Never since Federation has a political party in Canberra been more justified in bringing down the guillotine than has been the case tonight. The hypocrisy of the arguments of the members of the Opposition has actually stunned and exhausted me. The honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  in his desire to display his great oratorical splendour said that if the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  were domiciled on Heard Island he would be able to refer to every penguin by its christian name. The honourable member for Moreton has frequently told this Parliament in the past that in his early days in western Queensland he was a jackaroo. I know that every jackaroo is in the habit of counting sheep and invariably gets to know them by their christian names - 'One, two, three, four, hello love, six, seven, eight, nine, hello Jessie'. The honourable member adopts the attitude of the Australian Country Party in wanting to count sheep in electoral divisions. He has made a hopeless fool of himself tonight in the baseless arguments he has put forward to the Parliament. 
The most intelligent electors in Australia, apart from the electors of Hunter, are domiciled in Canberra. The great issue that influenced the people of Canberra to return 2 Australian Labor Party members with overwhelming majorities was that they had been deprived for so long of Senate representation in this establishment. But the members of the Opposition could not see that point and they let the issue go to the Australian people. That is the major issue, in my view. (Quorum formed.) I was referring to the hypocrisy of this debate. A short time ago when the electoral Bills were before this Parliament the members of the Opposition were arguing that Country Party members were entitled to 20 per cent over and above the quota because of the vastness of their electorates and the fact that they could not reach their constituents. On this issue, as to whether there should be Senate representation for the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory to allow people greater access to their senators, the Opposition has a completely reverse argument. How the hell can one recon- cile the logic of the  2  arguments that have been advanced here tonight? 
At one time the honourable member for Moreton used to boast in this Parliament about swimming against someone from some place in Condamine. It was a pity that he was not swimming there tonight, because then the dignity of the Parliament would not have been lowered by the hypocrisy that has been put forward tonight. The people of Australia have waited for too long for modern legislation to give the people of the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory adequate representation in the national legislature of Australia. It is high time that this legislation was passed without the waste of words that have been uttered here tonight by the honourable member for Moreton and other members of the Opposition. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. Bill read a second time. 
In  Committee 
The Bill. 
In regard to the motion before the House, I should like to say that on 99.9 per cent of occasions I have been a strong supporter and admirer of the honourable member for Grayndler and Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  in the way he has carried out his duties but 1 am not happy about this motion. As one of the back bench members on the Government side 1 often used to look forward to participating in adjournment debates. If I understood correctly the proposition put by the Leader of the House to the Parliament, it means that we will have an adjournment debate from 10.30 p.m. to 11 p.m. on Tuesdays, Wednesday and Thursdays, as has been the custom in the past. As far as I can recall, under the LiberalCountry Party Government very seldom was there an adjournment debate on the first sitting night of the week. This would not have been appreciated by most honourable members anyway, because although we usually look forward to adjournment debates we are usually tired before 1 1 o'clock on Tuesday evenings, having travelled long distances to the Parliament. But on Wednesday and Thursday evenings we of the back benches look forward to having a bit of a lash out. 
But I can take it, too. At least I never squeal about copping it. I dish it out and I am prepared to take it and you know it. If I recall correctly the situation which applied in the previous Parliament, when the adjournment debate commenced members of the Opposition used to have first bite at the cherry. They used to lead off. The maximum time allowed for each speaker was 10 minutes. If I recall the situation correctly, on Thursday night the adjournment used to commence at 10.15. Now I understand that the motion moved by the Leader of the House will reduce that time by a quarter of an hour and that this time will be lost to back bench members to talk in the adjournment debate. We are to be restricted to half an hour on Thursday nights, instead of the three-quarters of an hour which operated previously. If Government supporters continue to follow their same high code of ethics by allowing 
Opposition members to be first cab off the rank, then the Opposition will occupy the first  10  minutes from  10.30  p.m. to  10.40  p.m. A member from the Government side will speak from  10.40  p.m. to  10.50  p.m. and an Opposition member will speak during the remaining  10  minutes from  10.50  p.m. to  11  o'clock. So we backbenchers from the Government side will have only one adjournment speaker on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday nights. 
That is right. As the honourable member for Scullin says, a Government member would get the chance to strike out only once every  3  months. I do not feel happy about this situation. Often, I have given my speaking time on the adjournment debate to other members who are less well known to the people, perhaps because they have something to expound in connection with their electorates, where false impressions may have been given to their constituents regarding the activities of the Government. It is very difficult to give false impressions of Government activities to my constituents of Hunter because they are so politically astute, as honourable members would be well aware. That is why because of their superior political knowledge they returned me to this House with  73.6  per cent of the votes cast at the polls. But still, they like to hear my voice occasionally in this Parliament. 
We rebroadcast the tapes in the electorate. One has to be quick. The honourable member for Robertson has not had witness stand experience. I am not really happy although I am a great admirer of the Minister for Services and Property and the way in which he carries out his duties. This proposal will restrict Government back benchers from talking or making an outburst and replying to the misleading statements made from time to time by the Opposition. We will get one gallop - if I may use the Australian vernacular - on  2  successive nights to speak in the adjournment debate if this motion is carried. I am most unhappy about it. 
I propose to put forward some of the views of the lay people of Australia on this important piece of legislation - the Extradition (Foreign States) Bill. I have always been interested in legislation of this nature. I recall speaking at an InterParliamentary Union conference in Brasilia in 1962 when the subject of extradition arrangments between the countries of the world was open for debate. I think I disappointed some of the members of the American delegation on that occasion when I advocated from the rostrum that extradition treaties should exist between all countries and that the country aggrieved or the country in which the crime was committed should have to establish only a prima facie case in the country from which it was seeking to extradite a person. 
In that debate at the IPU conference in Brasilia great concern was expressed about responsible heads of state who were fleeing from different countries and carting the till with them and depositing the money in banks in Switzerland. It was suggested that, if the aggrieved country could prove within a month that the money was taken from it, it should be able to recoup the money. I said then that that suggestion did not go far enough and that the evil-doer should be brought back. The only regret I have about this legislation is that it has taken until this part of the 1970s for it to be introduced. We are living in a time when air travel around the world is so common and so frequently practised that professional criminals are moving around the world with the ease with which honourable members move from this chamber to the dining room. I have been thinking about asking the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  to put on a special flight from Brazil to Australia to carry the crook company directors who have been fleeing to Brazil in recent times to obtain immunity from prosecution. Heaven only knows how many of them are over there now. 
Two of Australia's greatest and most eminent counsel - a former Solicitor-General who is now the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  and a former distinguished lecturer in law at the Australian National University who is now the Minister for Manufacturing Industry and honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Enderby)  - have participated in this debate. Both of them have agreed that no loopholes will be detected in this legislation by people in their profession. I hope that I will be spared for long enough to see how this legislation stands up to the test in the courts of Brazil or of other countries. As legal men of such eminence as the Minister for Manufacturing Industry and the former Solicitor-General have put so much study and skill into the legislation's formation, implementation and passage through the Parliament I do not think that many loopholes will be found in it. 
When one stops to think about what brought about the introduction of this legislation it is very easy to arrive at a conclusion. We know that a man named Barton has defeated the efforts of the Commonwealth to have him extradited back to New South Wales to stand trial after fleecing shareholders in the Australian community of approximately $22m. 
I do not punt on the stock exchange because I have no confidence in many of the people who operate on it. They pump up the shares today and let them down tomorrow. I have my own opinion about that type of person. However, it is a part of our system. Many crook company directors today are taking advantage of the frailties of the stock exchange and the frailties of our laws in regard to bringing them back from certain countries. I think it is the wish of all honourable members in this House and of many thousands of decent Australians that this law be effective. One should stop to think about what has happened to Ronald Biggs, the great train robber. He was one of a gang of expert British criminals who in August 1963 knocked off Stg2,631,784, of which each received about Stg 120,600. 
They did. They got Wilson, Reynolds and Biggs, who escaped from prison. They got all of them. Biggs was the test. But Britain, with all its traditions and all its skills in law-making, which have been passed down to our proud country, has been unable to get Biggs back from Brazil. Why? Because he is supposed to be the father of a girl's unborn child. I wonder whether the honourable member for Wentworth and the Minister for Manufacturing Industry will be able to ease my mind as to whether this legislation would break down if Barton were to be brought into court in Brazil in relation to his extradition to Australia, with his skilled and wise lawyer,  Mr Gruzman,  Q.C., who recently flew to Brazil to interview him, and if Barton were to say: 'I have Margaret Abertito in the family way'. I hope that the former Solicitor-General will be able to advise me on that aspect because I think many Australians would like to know. I do not think it would be possible to introduce a foreign states extradition law that covered a situation such as that. It is a bit of hypocrisy that the laws of Brazil prevent a man from being extradited, no matter how serious the crime he committed in the country seeking his extradition, because he climbed into bed with a girl who now says that she is pregnant to him. I think that makes hypocrisy of the law, no matter what country's law it is. I hope that this legislation will prevent such a thing from happening. 
Crime today has become a national sport in the Western democracies. British safe-breakers move around Europe at the invitation of European criminals. They are supreme in their own particular craft. That is why they are invited to move around Europe. They have become great operators in certain jobs. They get firstclass air fares both ways and are treated with lavish hospitality. 
The professional criminals who move around the world. My point is: Will this law permit the extradition of people from all countries? We know that it will not. I have here a book which refers to the activities of the British criminals and safebreakers. It says that he operates with the skill of a Harley 
Street surgeon and that he has an assistant to hand his instruments to him while he is doing the job. The book states that one good thing about this type of crime in Britain is that it has made Britain the leading nation in the world in producing safes. The British criminal is so skilled at breaking into safes that the safe industry in Britain leads the world. 
I believe that the Minister for Manufacturing Industry and the honourable member for Wentworth, whom I mentioned previously, should push further ahead with this type of law and should use their influence in obtaining extradition treaties with other countries, whether or not they are Soviet bloc countries. A university student rang me from Sydney the other day. He said that he was doing some research, and the results of that research would probably amaze and surprise honourable members. This research has established that in the last 12 months 135 ten to sixteen-year old Australian girls are missing without trace. This university student was expressing concern that probably they have been kidnapped and taken over to some of the Middle East countries that are known for slave trading. I do not know whether the Minister for Manufacturing Industry or the honourable member for Wentworth can tell me whether this legislation would be effective in Saudi Arabia or some other of those Middle East countries to which it might ultimately be revealed that some of these 135 teenage children from Australia, who are generally fair haired and blue-eyed, have been taken in a drugged state. Anyway, this research has been done. I welcome the legislation. I applaud my Government and the Minister for Manufacturing Industry for its introduction. I will watch with passionate interest to see whether it is really effective. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. The honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  said that my attitude towards the use of nuclear weapons could bring about a world holocaust. T want to make it clear to this Parliament and the people of Australia, and to the people of the world, that I am passionately in favour of the decisions of the United Nations being implemented, and that is the attitude that my Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has taken. He has protested to France and he has protested to China about their experimenting in the atmosphere with nuclear weapons. But the honourable member for Mackellar, to my utter disgust to the day I die, stood in this Parliament some years ago and, I believe to the disappointment and disgust of the Prime Minister of the day.  Sir Robert  Menzies - advocated that the time was ripe for dropping a hydrogen bomb on the people of China. 
I want to describe the honourable member for Mackellar in his proper colours. 
I have never been, and I never will be, a party to the indiscriminate use of nuclear weapons. I favour the outlawing of them, as does my Government and my Prime Minister, and I will continue to do so as long as there is breath in my body and as long as my vocal chords are able to ring out. The honourable member for Mackellar wrongly described me, and I am grateful for the opportunity to correct the false impression he tried to give to the Parliament as to my attitude on this vital world question. 

 Mr WENTWORTH (Mackellar)-  Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
As  Chairman  of the Joint Committee on the Northern Territory in the last Parliament I thought that I should say something on this matter. We are debating the re-creation or re-formation, if I may put it that way, of that Committee. The Committee, prior to the double dissolution, was half way through taking evidence and completing an important report which was to contain recommendations to the Parliament on the setting up of a fully elected Legislative Council in the Northern Territory and the powers which should be exercised by it. To make it clear to those honourable members who may not be so interested, let me say that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  in his usual desire to honour his promises to the Aus tralian people, stated in his pre-election speech in 1972 that by the end of 1974 the Northern Territory would have a fully elected Legislative Council. All honourable members are, or should be, aware that the Northern Territory Legislative Council, as it is now constituted, has 11 members elected by the community and 6 nominated members. I regretted to learn that one of my colleagues on the Committee, the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder),  introduced into this debate an allegation that some members of the Committee were playing politics on the Committee. I have sat on several committees and I have been proud of the fact that the introduction of party politics into their proceedings is minimal. 
 I have not the time. I use my time for more important things. 
The honourable member for the Northern Territory refers to  Senator McLaren.  The honourable, member, if I might make a further comment on his allegation of the introduction of party politics into the proceedings of the Joint Committee on the Northern Territory when it was functioning previously, is very sensitive on one very important political question facing the nation, as has been revealed in the House in the last week. One of the terms of reference of this Committee is to inquire into greater political representation for the Northern Territory. Sometimes witnesses giving evidence before the Committee are asked questions, particularly by a senator in another place who is a good, hard working member of the Committee, about their attitude towards Senate representation for the Northern Territory. All honourable members know how sensitive the honourable member for the Northern Territory is to that type of question. With all due respect to the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt),  whilst I would not embarrass him by asking him to agree with my submissions, I believe he is so honourable that deep in his heart he, too, knows how sensitive the honourable member for the Northern Territory is to that type of question. 
-Listen and you will learn. The honourable member for the Northern Territory is as sensitive as a new born -baby's bottom on this question because his Party, the Australian Country Party, for a long while has opposed Senate representation for the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory. He said today that some members of the Committee were playing politics. Had he not introduced that matter I would not be spelling all this out now. I have had to spell it out because he has provoked me. That is what he calls playing party politics on this Committee. The honourable member would not go further and say that the  Chairman  of the Committee has played party politics because both he and the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  are well aware of the impartial attitude that I have taken as  Chairman  of the Committee. They are well aware that  2  of the witnesses whom I cross-examined most firmly were Labor members of the Council. They congratulated me on my impartiality. I believed that the  2  Labor members had said provocative things, and that caused me to cross-examine them vigorously. I regretted it. I possibly humiliated them too. But that is the attitude of the  Chairman  of the Committee. I do not think that you, MiMinister, need to warn me, as  Chairman  of that Committee, about being impartial. Although I have no qualifications as a jurist, I know the essential qualifications of a jurist and a  chairman  of any committee. These, I say in conclusion, are: To hear courteously, to answer wisely, to consider soberly and. above all, to act impartially. 

 Mr CALDER (Northern Territory) -  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 

 Mr CALDER . . . that it has been in my platform since 1966. 
I am astounded at the illogical submissions made by the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh).  Time will not permit me to dwell long on his remarks. However, every honourable member of the House must be aware that my Government, the Australian Government, put to the people recently two referendums, one of which was for the purpose of giving to local government bodies greater financial aid. The Party of which the honourable member is a supporter advocated the defeat of that referendum question. Despite that, local government is on the threshold of great achievements. The honourable member either told a lie or he- 
He departed from the truth. 
I withdraw the phrase. The honourable member for Darling Downs stated a short time ago that the only local government to which the Department of Urban and Regional Development had made money available was an organisation or local government region outside Melbourne. I challenge that statement because if the honourable member for Darling Downs is prepared to consult my electoral neighbour, the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe)  he will find that the Department of Urban and 
Regional Development is appropriating or has already appropriated the sum of Sim for the Hunter Valley regional councils. Most of the money is to go to the local councils in the electorate of Paterson. I ask the honourable member for Darling Downs to check up on that. However, time will not permit me to dwell any longer on what the honourable member said. 
I rise tonight to disclose one of the main contributing factors to inflation. It is a well recognised fact that depressions are caused by lack of confidence and that such confidence can be destroyed by unscrupulous propaganda, lying rumours, or a deliberately conceived plan. A prime example of such tactics was furnished when the Bank of New South Wales accused this Government of introducing a massive credit squeeze. This untrue accusation swept like wildfire through the business and financial community. The man who must be held responsible for that scare campaign is the  President  of the Bank of New South Wales,  Sir John  Cadwallader. I propose to expose him in this House as one of the arch monopolists who has been responsible in my view for causing more inflation than any other person in the country.  Sir John  Cadwallader is  chairman  and managing director of Allied Mills Ltd. He is one of  Sir Robert  Askin's great knights of the table, or under the table as some people describe them. Allied Mills has set out to establish a monopoly in margarine production in Australia. It has a near monopoly of the milling of flour in New South Wales and is responsible for almost half of the bread manufactured in Sydney and the metropolitan area. It sells its bread under the brand names of Buttercup, Sunbeam and Vogel. 
The Bank of New South Wales is the principal banker of the Government of New South Wales and backs most of its overdraft which at the present time is horrific, if I may say so.  Sir Robert  Askin was responsible for the knighting of  Sir John  Cadwallader and has looked after his interests at almost every turn. He has granted him 5 increases in the price of bread in the last 12 months, the last one being as recently as yesterday.  Another  price increase of 4.5c has been promised.  Sir John  Cadwallader owns Vegetable Oils Pty Ltd, which markets Daffodil and Tulip margarine which are sold in New South Wales, Victoria, Western Australia, South Australia, Queensland and Tasmania. Of the present margarine quotas 53.5 per cent are held by Vegetable Oils Pty Ltd and its subsidiaries as it has bought out some of the smaller quota firms to get their quotas. 

 Sir John Cadwallader has tried to establish a monopoly over the manufacture of margarine not only through the quotas but also through the milling of the oil seed. He has done this by buying a controlling interest in Meggitts Ltd. He owns the largest oil mill in the country and has bought out its only competitor, Pacific Safflower Australia Pty Ltd. He has persuaded State governments to introduce legislation requiring all margarine to be manufactured from Australian made products. I also believe that he persuaded the Askin Government to set up an Oil Seed Licensing Board. But the only mills that will qualify for a licence will be the Cadwallader Mills. This means that his competitors have to buy their vegetable oils through his mills only. What an awful racket! 
The only argument ever advanced in support of the margarine quotas is that they assist the dairying industry. That is a complete fallacy. Butter production is as dead as a dodo in New South Wales, particularly on the North Coast where it was once the major industry. In the past 3 weeks the GraftonUlmarra Butter Co-operative announced that it was going out of business because it was unable to obtain cream supplies. Margarine is the only stand-by the Australian housewife still has to keep the cost of living down. But the industry has been the victim of a vicious legislative war waged by State governments. The industry was producing what is called a universal spread consisting of non-vegetable oil margarine, specially softened for spreading purposes. The State governments introduced laws preventing the use of any colouring or flavouring and requiring the product to be labelled 'consisting of 90 per cent tallow' and heavily labelled 'for cooking purposes only'. 

 Sir John Cadwallader is a great believer in political influence. He has engaged the services of the former Minister for Agriculture in New South Wales,  Mr William  Chaffey, as his political lobbyist and his principal instruction is to save the quota system and William Chaffey has virtually never left Parliament House in New South Wales since he resigned. The position has become urgent for them since the Commonwealth Agricultural Export Committee produced a green paper recommending that the quotas toe abolished. 

 Sir John Cadwallader has succeeded in tying up practically every State Minister for Agriculture in Australia. He is virtually known as a roping expert. He would win a roping contest at the Mount Isa, Katherine or Warwick rodeos. He is an expert and I am going to fill in a nomination form for him when these rodeos are next held. Through these State Ministers for Agriculture he exercises control over the decisions of the Agricultural Council on margarine quotas. 

 Sir John Cadwallader also owns the poultry industry. He has achieved this through a monopoly of the production of meat meal which is an essential poultry foodstuff. The price of meat meal has been increased from $80 a tonne to almost $300 a tonne in recent months. The result has been that, no fewer than 6 increases have been granted by the Askin Government in the price of eggs in the past 18 months, the latest being as recently as yesterday. The poultry industry expects eggs to sell at $1 a dozen soon. They already cost 92 cents a dozen.  Sir John  Cadwallader also has his tentacles in the frozen chicken trade, from the time they are in the shell until they are sold at prices dictated by him. He also controls most of the processors of frozen chickens. So when the housewife goes into the supermarket or chain store and buys bread, margarine, eggs or chicken, it is fair to surmise that she is paying tribute to  Sir John  Cadwallader. 
By removing the quotas on margarine the manufacturers would be able te meet an unlimited demand and offer it for sale at truly competitive prices and the housewife would gain the benefit of the reduction in the cost of living. These are facts that I have researched myself. I can swear to their authenticity. I believe that men of this type should be exposed throughout the length and breadth of the nation. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. I thank the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  for his courtesy in consulting me on the matter that he has raised. But I think it is a minor matter - one of semantics, if I may put it that way. In speaking on the adjournment debate last night, the honourable member, who preceded me in that debate, said: 
The only money that has been distributed by the Commonwealth Government has come from the 'Department of Urban and Regional Development to a few suburbs in western Melbourne. That indicates clearly that the present Australian Government thinks Australia begins and end in the western suburbs of Sydney and Melbourne. 
That statement reminded me that the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  had stated prior to the last election - and honourable members will appreciate why I hold the statement uppermost in my mind - that his Department was appropriating $2m for the Hunter Valley regional councils, many of which are in the electorate represented by the honourable member for Paterson. 
My mind having been prompted by my friend from Darling Downs, I replied that it was true that money was being appropriated to the western suburbs of Sydney and Melbourne. But as recorded at page 825 of yesterday's Hansard, I went on to say that the Department of Urban and Regional Development. ... is appropriating or has already appropriated the sum of Sim for the Hunter Valley regional councils. Most of the money is to go to the local councils in the electorate of Paterson. I ask the honourable member for Darling Downs to check up on that. However, time will not permit me to dwell any longer on what the honourable member said. 
It is a minor matter. I was reassured a few moments ago that this money is being appropriated for the Hunter Valley regional councils and that it will be appropriated in the September Budget. Whilst I respect the honourable member for his courtesy and I do not condemn him for raising this subject, I think that it is a minor matter and I hope that it has been cleared up. 
I fully agree with the reply that the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  gave to the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier).  I am sympathetic to the honourable member for Bendigo and I am grateful that the Minister for Defence only mauled the arguments that he put forward and did not reach the full heights of his own mental and physical ability as a debater. 
It was a case of a lion fighting a mouse. With great respect to the honourable member for Bendigo, I believe that he did not intend to speak on defence. The honourable member was out of his depth on this subject and the Minister was left to fight an uneven contest even though he was going only at half throttle. 
I realise that the Minister restrained himself because he did not want to subject the honourable member to any more humiliation that was necessary. He believed in the words of  Sir Robert  Menzies- you should never annihilate your opposition but just defeat them. That is all the Minister sought to do. I will not detain the House for any length of time because it will adjourn in about 4 minutes. 
Whoever invented the saying that empty vessels make the loudest raise was not far from the truth just then. The honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  tonight criticised one of our Ministers for appointing  Mr Mundey  to the Cities Commission. I am almost sure that  Mr Mundey  served on the Cities Commission for only a very brief period and that he has resigned. I have some respect for the honourable member for Angas, because when he speaks in this Parliament he has usually checked out his facts rather accurately. However, I am sure that on this occasion he did not check his facts because I am reliably informed that  Mr Mundey  resigned from the Cities Commission some considerable time ago. I only wish that the honourable member had checked out the facts before he spoke tonight. If it is true that he made the reference in his brief speech- 
Yes, I think he went off halfcocked. I think the honourable member for Angas is the type of person who would only too readily rise in this House at the first opportunity and make the appropriate apology if he made a statement that was not correct. I believe that he would be only too ready to correct the statement that he made about  Mr Mundey  being a member of the Cities Commission. 
As only one minute remains before the House will adjourn I will not take up any more of the time of the House. However, I hope at some future time to enlighten if not the Parliament then the people who read Hansard or who listen to the radio broadcast about the effects of the operations of multi-nationals in the Western world and their contribution to inflation. With those remarks I conclude my speech. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
My question is directed to the Treasurer and it follows the question asked by the honourable member for Gwydir. Could the Treasurer tell me, or could he confer with his colleague the Minister for Transport to ascertain, how many of the alleged 5,000 persons who attended the meeting at Moree recently flew in on Cessna aircraft, as reported in the Press? Are Cessna aircraft used by primary producers still a substantial tax concession? Is it true that the average grazier can write off the cost of a Cessna aircraft in approximately 3 years? Is it true also that  Mr Joh  Bjelke-Petersen, an arch enemy of the Prime Minister, inspired a lot of Queensland graziers to fly to Moree in their Cessna aircraft to attack the Australian Government? 
-I think that the honourable member for Forrest  (Mr Drummond)  has been quite moderate in his criticism of the Government's Budget. Therefore he does not deserve the criticism that I would level against any member of the Opposition who had been rather sadistic in his criticism of my Government. I hope that the honourable member for Forrest continues with the modest criticism of the Government, because that is the role of the Opposition. When he reaches the stage of going overboard I think the members on this side of the House can curb his unjustified, bitter and sadistic criticism. I will be in the forefront in doing so on behalf of my Party. I wholeheartedly support the Budget. I congratulate my Government on its introduction. I believe it is perfectly tailored to suit the times in our nation and throughout the western world. 
It might not look so nice on you. It might be a bit difficult to fit you with anything. I am grateful for the Government's endeavour and concern in trying to curb the economic monster that has enveloped the western world at this time. No single government any where in the western world- honourable members would admit this in private- can curb or eliminate this economic monster of inflation without using, of course, the old Tory methods of deliberately creating a great army of unemployed, creating tame-cat unions and making workers subservient to big business. I hope that those times have gone in Australia and I know they have in the opinion of all my party members. 
It can be truly said that a short time ago there was over-employment. I know, as we all know, that this method creates problems such as difficulty in controlling some employees by smalltime employers and in meeting the public demand for goods, which results in high costs and inflation. I believe in discipline in industry as do most of my colleagues in the Labor Party. If I had to make a choice between over-employment and a lack of discipline in industry against an army of unemployed, I am afraid that I would have to come down on the side of overemployment. I would like to see- as all honourable members would like to see- a society free of both of these evils that often too frequently raise their ugly heads in free societies. I think it was the Minister for Labour and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  who said recently that if 100,000 people were unemployed approximately 40,000 of those would be unemployable, such as the mentally retarded who do not qualify for an invalid pension. 
I do not believe there are 123,000 unemployed. There are certain alcoholics in our society, created by our society, who are unemployed. We have the lazy, like some members of Parliament, who would not work in an iron lung. Then we have the hardheaded spiv who lives on his wits. They help to make up the figure of the 40,000 unemployables. I believe labour is the lot of man and that a man should have to be gainfully employed in his society. What does the Budget depict. It depicts the fundamental principles of a genuine Labor government. It provides for the poorer sections of society- the under-privileged. It provides for the middle classes. The Budget outlays the colossal sum of $ 16,274m. This sum would have been considerably curbed had the Opposition still held the Treasury benches. 
The Labor Government believes that the important needs of society should come first. Education, social welfare and hospitalisation are all top priorities in any country similarly situated to Australia. My Government regards education as a top priority. Last year our allocation for education almost doubled because of the lag that had been created by the 23 years of Tory administration. In 1975 total outlay is estimated at $ 1,535m. We have all learned that a country that is highly educated has immeasurably higher living standards. There was an increase of 78 per cent on the 1 973-74 figures because of the lag, as I said, by previous anti-Labor governments. 
The honourable member for Petrie keeps interjecting. He forgets that he undermined a colleague. It is a pity that he did not come to the Parliament with a cleaner background because he would have been freer and more justified in interjecting on a member of the Government Party or on any member of the House. When a member does not come here with a clean background he always suffers the possibilities of humiliation. 
If the honourable member is on his feet at the end of 4 rounds I will give 50 bucks to the Canberra Hospital. That is what I think of him. We used to push you fellows over with a feather duster when I was in the other job. We have increased expenditure on schools from $234m in the last financial year to $555m in 1974-75- an increase of 137 per cent. Expenditure on universities and colleges of advanced education will rise from $524m to $8 18m- a 56 per cent increase in this Budget. Never before in Australia's history has university education been free for those qualified. It always stunned me, coining from a strong industrial area, to see people from my environment with good brains going down into the bowels of the earth to dig coal because their parents could not afford to send them to university. Under a Labor administration that situation will no longer exist and should not have existed as long as it has. 
Provision is made for the expenditure of $28m on health in 1974-75. We intend to meet the urgent needs of the community which have been lagging so long under anti-Labor administrations. The Budget makes provision for nursing home benefits. They were increased from 1 August at an additional cost of $24.6m. We intend increasing the subsidy for aged people's homes from $2-for-$ 1 to $4-for-$ 1 . People in the Newcastle and Hunter electorates will be overjoyed at this humane legislation. The Hawkins Masonic Village in the electorate of Hunter, the Church of England Booragul Homes and the St Joseph Homes at Hexham - 
I beg your pardon. I cannot hear the honourable member very clearly. This humane legislation no doubt will be appreciated by other similar organisations throughout the country. 
Let him ask himself. Social service pensions have already been increased this year. The single rate pension has been increased by $5 a week and the combined married rate has been raised by $6. This is in conformity with the Prime Minister's election promise to raise the basic pension to 25 per cent of the average wage, which it almost is now. 
This is the first Budget for many years before which pensioners have not stormed Kings Hall and sought a substantial increase. The National Federation of Pensioners said that it did not expect pensioners to get an increase in this Budget. This indicates that pensioners appreciate the humanitarianism of the Australian Government. 
Provision has been made to improve sewerage in the capital cities. Provision has been made to build Australian Government hospitals in Brisbane, Sydney and Melbourne to overcome the lag in the provision of hospital beds. This should be commended even by the tory Opposition. The hospital care subsidy for approved hospitals for the aged is to be raised from $12 to $15 for those who are bedridden or semi-bedridden. Meals on Wheels subsidies are to be increased from 20c to 25c. I applaud my Government in particular for its humane outlook toward those who have the unfortunate circumstance of having a physically handicapped child. Only last week a lady in my electorate, 50 years of age, a small frail woman, told me that she has to sponge, care for and help her 32 year old son out of bed, onto the toilet, and to walk about the house. The allocation of $10 a week to people like that indicates the humanitarianism that the Government displays in its policies. The national family planning program- something that was lacking under tory administration- is to get $425,000. 
Yes. There might not have been so many foolish interjections if it had been. To my mind this is a great thing because it will eliminate the sordidness of illegal abortions about which honourable members know I have spoken in this House on a number of occasions. It will eliminate the backyard abortionist or butcher. 
I turn now to the provision for the Structural Adjustment Board. Imagine a tory government providing $1 1.8m to assist employees displaced by government decisions. Such a scheme could never have been introduced by a tory goverment because it would have immediately met with repercussions from big business and the Chambers of Manufactures, which form the backbone of the Opposition's support. Repatriation benefits are to be upgraded. The Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory are to get an initial $ 14m to overcome their housing problems. In urban development, as I said, $390m is to be provided for sewerage. How can any fair minded person say that this is not the ideal Budget to meet the needs of the Australian people at this time? 
I thought the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  slaughtered the Opposition this morning in the debate on uranium. The Opposition wants uranium to be under the control of private enterprise. I honestly and sincerely believe that that is not the view of the Opposition but is the result of the Opposition yielding to the pressures of the multinationals and gigantic mining companies who have subsidised its election expenses. I can well understand that when people put themselves in the hands of those people they can be politically blackmailed. I feel sorry for the Opposition in allowing itself to get into such a position. In the discussion this morning my mind went back to the action of  Sir Robert  Menzies the result of which he has to bear during the whole of his political career. The wharf labourers defied the tories and their foreign policy in refusing to load pig-iron on the eve of the Japanese-German war against the Allies. The wharf labourers' actions proved to be correct. They said: 'We will not load it because we will get it back in guns and in the bodies of our soldiers'. How right they were. This is what free enterprise would do if it had the whole and sole control of Australia 's uranium. 
Particularly at this time in the world's history the export of uranium should not be taken from the control of the Australian Government. I believe that the Australian Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  said in the United Nations that Australia would not export uranium to any country that had not signed the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty. We all know that the bombs that can be produced by the great powers of the world today can destroy the fabric of the earth. We know from the lectures of Linus Pauling, the great American nuclear physicist, that a 20 megaton bomb exploded 5 miles above the earth has such a killing effect, that every living thing is destroyed within a radius of 50 miles and very few people survive within a radius of 100 miles. One can visualise that a 20 megaton bomb dropped over Katoomba would destroy Wollongong, Sydney, Newcastle, Port Stephens, Bathurst and Orange. Some honourable members laugh when these serious things are raised and when one mentions that uranium should be controlled. 
The Opposition was reminded in the discussion this morning that it was the tory Government, the present Opposition, that introduced the Atomic Energy Act. The previous Government made provision in that Act, as was so effectively pointed out by the Minister for Minerals and Energy this morning, that uranium shall remain the property of the Commonwealth. But as I said, the Opposition is under the pressure of big business and the mining companies who want to reef uranium out of the ground and get an exorbitant profit irrespective of what is done with it or what it could be worth after 1980. We know that the price of uranium will treble or quadruple. I believe that it is the proper attitude of the Minister for Minerals and Energy to intend to recommend to Cabinet that we set up a uranium enrichment plant in the Northern Territory. It would be a great thing for the Northern Territory. 
The Minister pointed out that in their search for uranium the mining companies spent a mere $12m and that the success of their search undoubtedly would have depended on the preliminary research done by the Bureau of Mineral Resources of Australia which is controlled by this Parliament and paid for by the Australian taxpayer.But on the other hand the estimated value of the uranium on present world prices is $7,000m. So what is a mere $12m? We know that the mining companies use this argument in the ears of those who are not knowledgeable in politics and they get a very patient hearing when they say that they had spent $12m searching for uranium and that the Government will not let them develop it. That sounds very good but when it is pointed out to them, as some of us do point out when we go to other parts of Australia, it is a mere bagatelle when the value of uranium is$7,000m. 
I would like to have said something tonight on the power of multinationals, as my mind was prompted by the very sincere speech of my friend, the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins).  We have been criticised for our attitude to multinationals but I hope that some day the Australian people will approve an assets tax being introduced in this Parliament. The present British Labour Government intends to do this in the foreseeable future because of the gluttonous wealth still in private hands. 
-I ask the Acting Prime Minister. What are the Minister's proposals for coal hydrogenation in conjunction with Japan? To what extent can he see our bunker fuel needs being met? 
I listened with interest tonight to the debate between the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  and the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter).  The honourable member for Kennedy made a feeble attempt to defend the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder),  but I wish to point out to the Parliament that the honourable member for the Northern Territory has been absent all the week from this Parliament. It is obvious to me, as  Chairman  of the Joint Parliamentary Committee on the Northern Territory, that he has been campaigning throughout the Northern Territory in connection with the election there on Saturday next. I hope that this information gets through to the people of the Northern Territory. 
The honourable member for the Northern Territory has been absent since Tuesday for obvious reasons to attend to campaign duties on behalf of the Australian Country Party. I am grateful for the honourable member's correction, but I allege that for the remainder of the week the honourable member for the Northern Territory has been campaigning in the Northern Territory in connection with the election on Saturday next.  His  bounden duty to his constituents is to represent them in this Parliament when the Parliament is sitting, not to be campaigning in the Northern Territory. That is where his primary duties lie. That is why he receives a lucrative salary, and his duties are in this Parliament, not campaigning in connection with a local election in the Northern Territory. I hope that every fairminded member of this House would agree with me. 
The Labor Party has been criticised for not showing an interest in the affairs of the people of the Northern Territory, but an ultra-modern sewerage system is being installed at Tennant Creek and a super ultra-modern sewerage system is being installed for the people of Darwin. I have not the privilege of having sewerage system at my home in Coal Point which is much more thickly populated than some of the areas of the Northern Territory. The residents of Coal Point are deprived of a sewerage system. The Commonwealth Government is granting, rightly or wrongly, a higher priority to the people of the Northern Territory. It is true, as the Minister for Transport said, that spending by this Government in the Northern Territory exceeds by far the expenditure by private enterprise. Only a few weeks ago I found in the Northern Territory an ordinary home for sale by private enterprise at $47,000. The occupants of the home were a decent Melbourne family who went there recently. They are paying $80 a week in rent and are seriously considering rescinding a contract with a private enterprise firm because of the exploitation by private enterprise of the people of the Northern Territory. Something drastic should be done about the exploitation of the people. In the Northern Territory, which produces probably the largest amount of beef in Australia, the price of beef is dearer than it is elsewhere. I paid 80c a lb for buffalo fillet steak because certain friends asked me to bring them back some buffalo fillet steaks. Yet today one can buy first class beef in New South Wales we know, for 35c to 40c a lb. These are 2 instances- housing and beef as the exploitation. 
I assure the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland),  who has just resumed his seat, that the Labor Party has never thought of replacing the Treasurer  (Mr Crean).  He holds a high and responsible position. He has the admiration of every member of the Labor Party.  His  sincerity and honesty as a man and as a Treasurer are unequalled in this Parliament. In private all members of the Opposition concede that. The Treasurer is handling a sordid mess left to the Labor Party by the Tories who are now in Opposition and who will remain in opposition for many years to come. 
I want to make a brief submission to the Committee. I know that my colleague the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Riordan)  has some important facts to raise in the short time remaining for this debate. This morning several telephone calls of consternation from people in the Hunter electorate and the adjoining electorates of Shortland and Newcastle were made to my home in Toronto. The people who called were concerned about the Government's attitude towards the taxing of compensation payable to the unfortunate thalidomide victims by a German drug company which was warned of the malformation of children which could result from the use of the drug. This free enterprise drug company, which members of the Opposition so passionately favour, boost up and stick up for, produced and distributed this drug to mothers-to-be, despite the fact that it knew of the possible repercussions. Fortunately, not many children in Australia were victims of the hungry profit making of this German drug company. 
After long consultation the thalidomide victims in Australia have been awarded compensation. I hope that the Treasurer can clear the air for my electors. I know that he can. The comment was made this morning, during an open line program on a commercial radio station, that our Government was acting in an unfair way in taxing the compensation awarded by the drug companies to the thalidomide victims. I know that the Treasurer will explain and clarify the Government's attitude towards taxing the compensation that has been made available to these unfortunate children, born without arms and legs as a result of the hungriness of this international drug company. That is all I want to submit in this debate. 
-The honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Hewson),  who has just resumed his seat, made reference in his speech to the Labor Party receiving money in the form of slush funds from margarine manufacturers. He would not have a jot or a tittle of evidence to support his claim. It is virtually a mythical story that he has from a bad-minded man. I wish to return the attack by referring to allegations by a highly respected journalist who, for a considerable time sat in the Press Gallery in this Parliament, He is  Mr Ray  Aitchison who wrote the book which I hold in my hand. It is entitled 'Looking at the Liberals'. 
-Ray Aitchison 's integrity has been highly regarded by all members of this House for a long, long time. On page 256 of his book, this distinguished, forthright, honest Australian journalist, referring to the Liberal Party, states: 
I was told seriously by friends in Washington whilst I was there during the Australian election campaign that with so much at stake from the American viewpoint CIA funds were available to help defeat the Labor government in Australia. They would be made available without anyone in Australia having to ask for the money or even aware of where it was coming from. Such an operation, of course, was in line with the work of the CIA and the American government on a global scale to preserve American interests anywhere in the world. For Australia, it was a simple operation, and 'peanuts ' as far as money was concerned. 
And the honourable member for McMillan has the temerity to talk about the Labor Party receiving money from the margarine manufacturers. He ought to hide his head in shame. I have not finished dealing with him yet. 
This book by this forthright journalist, Ray Aitchison, who, I believe, is still employed by the Australian Broadcasting Commission, continues: 
Anti-socialist political organisations contesting an Australian election under prevailing assessments of the international situation could not be permitted to fail .through a mere shortage of funds. Maybe CIA funds were not used. However, the American Government would have no difficulty in giving anonymous money to Australian anti-socialists . . . and the book goes on.  Mr Aitchison  states further: 
To use an American expression, no one rooted more for Snedden - 
Ray Aitchison goes on to say: 
To use an American expression, no one rooted more for Snedden and his anti-socialist forces in the election campaign than did Government men and top businessmen in the United States. 
-You talk about slush funds. You are copping it and you cannot take it.  Mr Aitchison  goes on to refer to that distinguished, pretty tittle girl who was the former secretary of a former Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton).  He states: 
Ainsley Gotto, John Gorton's former private secretary, who had been working for some years for the American company Drake International, was able to help out in a smaller way. She returned to Australia as the election campaign got started and offered to all thirteen members of the Liberal Parliamentary Executive a skilled secretary to work fulltime for each of them throughout the campaign free of charge.  Her  offer was snapped up. 
And honourable members opposite have the temerity to talk about Labour Party slush funds. We do not deny the fact that we get our funds in the main from trade unionists who know that if honourable members opposite had their way they would drive the working class of this country into the ground. I will resume my seat on that theme as I see that the time for this sitting has almost expired. 
It is a pity the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly)  did not refer to the Cambridge Credit Corporation Ltd and the Mainline Corporation Ltd which forced up the price of land and did not pass the profits on to the young married couples who are being exploited by the land sharks today. However my mission in speaking today is to mention the inadequacies and the deterioration in mineworkers pensions. I know this matter has been of concern to the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  and to the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Kerin)  who have a large contingent of retired mine workers in their electorates. 
Pension legislation affecting coal and oil shale mine workers has operated in New South Wales since January 1942. Similar legislation followed in the other coal producing States. A mine workers' retirement scheme emerged from negotiations between the unions and mining companies to cover mine workers employed in the metalliferous mining industry at Broken Hill. Unlike coal industry schemes, that at Broken Hill is not established by legislation, as you well know,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  through your long experience with the coal mining industry, being a representative of a coal mining area in the Lithgow region. 
When considering the drafts of new schemes we can now assess 32 years experience to measure the actual results against the mine workers' expectations at the time the original legislation was enacted. The first adverse development to prevent basic expectancies being realised was the departure from fixing employers' contributions by a levy on the tonnage of coal produced and its substitution with the present per capita method of fixing both the employers' and employees' contributions. This method, crippling in its effect on the benefits structure, has been maintained despite numerous deputations to Labor and coalition governments. At no time has the correctness of the mine workers' submissions been refuted. They are able to prove that the living standards of retired mine workers and their dependants have been severely worsened. The answers received have been more concerned with legalistic matters and an alleged reluctance to legislate for a small distinct section of the community than with any essential approach to the considerations of human welfare. 
It must be admitted that although the Miners' Federation's efforts to re-establish the levy have been fought without success, nevertheless reestablishment of the levy remains a fundamentally correct plank of the Miners' Federation policy. As such it has to be maintained and advanced with the maximum energy which the current industrial-political situation permits. Since introduction of the per capita method of financing the schemes in all States except Tasmania annual production and output per man-shift have increased enormously. Output per manshift has increased by approximately 500 per cent in the last 7 or 8 years and is near to reaching a world record. The production of coal per man in Australia has attained world standards. The upward movement in production and output per man-shift has not been matched by corresponding gains to retired mine workers. Employers have actually enjoyed a gigantic saving through the method of per capita contributions to the miners' pensions funds. In effect, much of what retired mine workers should have received has been congealed in the funds of coal companies, including the multi-nationals, particularly those well known to all honourable members, Utah Mining Australia Ltd and Clutha Development Proprietary Limited. 
This situation is compounded as fewer mine workers continue to produce at higher levels. Little is left to the imagination with the prospect of a world wide sellers' market developing for coal. Action by the Australian Labor Government has resulted in increased prices for Australian coal, much to the credit of our present Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor),  the honourable member for Cunningham. The coal owners and their 'coalition' spokesmen see this as intended to yield them more profits. Retired mine workers do not even come last in the calculations of the coalition political parties; they do not enter into the calculations at all. The mining unions originally sought compulsory retirement of mine workers at 60 years of age. That was and still remains correct policy. However, it must be seen that while social security legislation provides for retirement on pensions for males at 65, the compulsorily retired mine worker has his working life shortened by 5 years compared with other workers. He is in fact 5 years short in the market of time to prepare for retirement, and in the 5 years between 60 and 65 he and his dependants exist on a level below the Henderson poverty line. 
One of the most corrosive weaknesses in the situation of the mine workers is revealed here. Since commencement of miners' pensions, the Miners' Federation has pressed with varying degrees of vigour for compulsorily retired mine workers to qualify for age pensions as from the date of their compulsory retirement.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  you are well aware of the hazards of the coalmining industry and the resultant effect on the lungs of mine workers working deep in the bowels of the earth commonly referred to in the United States of America as black lung but referred to by you and by me, who represent coal mining constituencies, as miners' silicosis, a lung complaint which causes long and lingering suffering. 
Some Commonwealth action towards providing adequate miners' pension standards was envisaged in the report of the royal commission inquiring into the question of the compulsory retirement of employees in coal and oil shale mines in New South Wales in 1941. After exhaustively setting out legislation for miners' retirement in many overseas countries, as enacted by their national governments, at page 47 under the heading 'Conclusions: General' the report states: 
In this respect the legislation of Australia, including New South Wales, has lagged behind that of Europe where the right of miners to a pension has been recognised in schemes distinct from those which apply now to the community in general as does the Invalid and Old Age Pensions Act. 
I should like to contribute more on this subject in this debate but I am aware that the Parliament is anxious to debate very soon a national compensation scheme in which the overwhelming majority of the population of Australia are interested. But at some later date I shall conclude my remarks on what I consider is the unfair treatment or the lack of proper sympathy by responsible authorities towards building up the mine workers pension to the level at which it was originated and to the level at which it should be today. I am grateful to  Mr Comerford,  a former 

 President of the Northern District Miners Federation, for the information contained in the documents I have before me. He is well known to you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  for his research and his dedication to the welfare of retired miners. 
I am happy to be able to make a contribution to this debate on the estimates for the Department of Defence. As my mind goes back over a considerable period of years I am utterly disgusted by the unjustified criticism by the Opposition of the Government's defence policies. The ' Opposition has made feeble attempts to denigrate the Australian Government in connection with its defence policies and its provision for expenditure, which we are now debating, in the Budget. It is worth repeating that on 'Monday Conference' last Monday night a spokesman for the LiberalCountry Party Opposition, the honourable member for Flinders  (Mr Lynch),  said that the Government should make an 8 per cent slash across the board in Government expenditure, but when he was pinned down as to the departments in which he would slash government expenditure he evaded the question. Obviously he meant, but was not prepared to say, that he would slash defence expenditure. But, on the other hand, we find that the shadow Minister for Defence, the honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes),  purporting to be critical of the Government for not spending sufficient on defence. A direct conflict exists between 2 responsible Opposition shadow Ministers. 
Further, I read criticism of the Australian Government for allowing Australian defence requirements to run down. This is utterly untrue. It is worth reminding the Parliament and the people of Australia that it was the Australian Labor Party to which the Australian nation looked in World War I and World War II to steer it through those critical periods of our history. The Australian people would not trust the tories. But honourable members opposite still follow the same policies. The Australian Labor Party when it came to office during World War II found Australia virtually defenceless. Our Wirraway aircraft were being shot down in New Guinea by Japanese Zeros. We had urgently pressed for more modern equipment from Britain and the United States of America. Britain was unable to fulfil that requirement. 
The Whitlam Administration has rebuilt the bridges of friendship in South East Asia which were originally established by a former member for Hunter,  Dr Evatt.  Australia is more respected in the eyes of those people today than for many years. This is the result of the policies of this Government and of the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard),  for whom I have the utmost respect. The honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  to my disgust- and I hope to his shame- revived the sordidness of the Vietnam War as a result of which 500 Australian boys lost their lives and some 400 Australian lads are now receiving treatment for lost limbs. I intend to place on the Notice Paper a question asking the responsible Minister how much is being paid by Australian taxpayers today in the form of widows' and military pensions in respect of the wounded of Vietnam which was not worth the blood and bones of one Australian boy. To the utter disgust of the world, America and Australia involved themselves in Vietnam. Why is it that today the United Nations will not accept our offer to send 125 troops to Cyprus as part of the United Nations peace keeping force in that country? 
They are available. But our name is still tainted by our involvement in Vietnam. We hope that our troops would be warmly received. But the United Nations think, in my view, that it is too soon after Vietnam for Australian troops to go to Cyprus. 
Yes. We have more troops now. We have a waiting list of people wishing to join the armed forces. There are boys in my electorate who are unable to get into the armed forces because of the waiting list. This situation results from the policies of the Australian Government and the Minister at the table. But, under the former Liberal Government men could not be encouraged to join the armed forces because the armed forces were not attractive enough- and well honourable members opposite know that fact. The former Government took notice of some of the defence chiefs and said that it would need to use conscription. It used conscription. As I have pointed out in this Parliament before, when boys were conscripted to serve in Vietnam there were 17 members of the then Government who were physically capable of meeting the entry standards required to join the forces in Vietnam. And not one of them - 
Look at this pretty boy from Hume who is asking me to remain silent. Why were you not in Vietnam as a supporter of the tories, the Liberals, who were prepared to conscript other boys at 19 and 20 years of age to go to Vietnam. You were not prepared to go yourself. Every time I think of that, I am reminded that your defence policies are so immoral and so filthy that they stink like a Turkish wrestler's jockstrap. You cannot properly defend your situation. The former Government sent a former Minister for Defence,  Mr Athol  Townley, who served under  Sir Robert  Menzies, to America to buy aircraft because it feared that criticism would be levelled at it in the forthcoming election in 1963 on the ground that the defence chiefs -had told the Government that the outmoded Canberra bomber was of no further use in modern warfare. He was sent to America with an open cheque. Like a housewife with expensive tastes he said: 'Yes. A dozen of these, a dozen of these, and 2 dozen of those', and he ordered 2 dozen Fill bombers. I would like to think that you would leave your own wife if she went shopping like that. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)Order!  Is the honourable member for Hume raising a point of order? 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Perhaps the technicians can do something. It is not a matter for the Chair. 
Why don't you go outside? 
You know that this debate is being broadcast. You are afraid that some Australians - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member for Hunter has the call. 
You are afraid that some Australians might be influenced by the factual details that I am giving in connection with the tories' defence policies. 
At 4.27 p.m. today, the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter),  the Opposition's spokesman on the Army had the temerity to say that we had fallen out with our South East Asian neighbours. We have more respect in the eyes of South East Asian people as a result of our policies than Australia has had for many years. I point out that 42,000 Australian boys failed to register to serve in the Vietnam war. Those 42,000 boys thought that the then Government's policies were so immoral that they failed to register. I admired them. I influenced them not to register because I felt so strongly about those defence policies on Vietnam at that time. 
I wish to direct the remainder of my remarks to the unforunate conflict in Cyprus in respect of which the Australian Government, I believe, is following the true path. I am inspired to speak on Cyprus following the worthy remarks of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in this chamber this morning. The existance of Cyprus as a sovereign, independent and territorially united state is in grave danger. The events witnessed by the island in recent months have increased the danger with every passing day. We see the influence of international imperialism within the orbit of NATO which finds great difficulties within itself in recognising the independent nonaligned policy pursued by the former  President  of the democratically elected government, Archbishop Makarios, who in my opinion should be reinstated in his position in Cyprus to lead that country along the path of non-alignment and non-aggression and to follow his peace-loving policies, instead of allowing Cyprus to fall into the hands of warmongering forces within the ranks of NATO so that it can be made a military base and further jeopardise the peace of the world. 
-Tonight I wish to express my appreciation of the valuable information which is supplied to members of Parliament from time to time and which all or most of us never get the time to give recognition, due to the strains of other phases of our political duties. Of course, some honourable members may adopt the attitude that the organisation to which I am about to refer should not exist, but I wish to express my appreciation of the information which it has supplied to me from time to time and which gets very little recognition by way of being mentioned on the floor of the House. I refer to the Divorce Law Reform Association of Queensland. 
I believe that the Association has played some part in bringing about the introduction of progressive legislation such as the Family Law Bill, which I feel rather happy about because it seeks to simplify the method of divorce and to obviate the public washing of dirty linen by marriage partners, which more or less brings about a situation in which the children of that marriage have to bear the stigma of that dirty linen being washed in public. Many sections of the legal profession reap a benefit from a marriage breakdown. That is to cease partially. Newspapers also benefit from sales to that section of society which gloats over some of the sordid details of the breakdown of a marriage. That is to be overcome. The Divorce Law Reform Association of Queensland has pointed out from time to time some of the exorbitant costs which are imposed upon those individuals who have had to go through the divorce courts because of an unfortunate breakdown of their marriage. 
I recall a case in Newcastle some years agosince I have been a member of this Parliament -in which a constituent of mine was in the process of paying out some $300 to have dissolved a marriage which in my view was not a marriage at all because the woman concerned, who was of 
Greek origin, had married in Newcastle a chap who had come to Australia from Greece only 12 months before. She had 2 children to him. When they were about ten or twelve years of age she found out that her husband, or the man whom she believed was her legal husband, had been married in Greece 12 months before he arrived in Australia. She was going through the legal processes to have an illegal marriage dissolved. It was going to cost her $300. My advice to her was that she should not spend a penny on having the form of marriage dissolved because it was an invalid marriage, that virtually she was like a single woman who had had 2 children out of wedlock and that she was free to marry whom she wished. She was astounded by my advice. I rang her lawyer and told him what my advice to her had been. He said: 'I agree that your advice is better than mine, but I have to observe the ethics of the law institute and I have to have this illegal or bigamous marriage untangled by the legal processes in court. I agree that your advice is correct. ' I saved the woman $300. 
The Divorce Law Reform Association of Queensland in its latest correspondence to me brought to my attention a letter concerning a divorce case. The letter gives the names of the people involved, but the Association has not said that they should be withheld from the Parliament. The letter is from W. McL. Smith of 29 Hornsey Road, Moggill, Queensland. It is dated October 1973 and reads: 
A divorce heard on 17 October 1973 involved my ex- wife with 6 firms of solicitors acting for her over 6 years with the ex-wife having to pay her own costs. My solicitor's charges for defending against the ex-wife: 
Custody $470 Interim maintenance $ 35 Maintenance hearing $260 Access enforcement $220 
Then, having no money I then issued my own divorce petition and defended myself for a total of $ 1 .40. 
Although the ex-wife had a criminal history, and, a history of homosexuality, it was ignored by the Court, as well as the late neurotic condition of my ex-wife, and the fact that the children were dirty and neglected at the hands of my ex-wife whilst living apart. 
Although my ex-wife assured the trial Judge that she would not remove our children out of the metropolitan area she immediately did so and took them to Cairns. 
My ex-wife and the children cannot now be traced.  Her  solicitor Mellick of Cairns claims that all access to the children is in his hands. Searches by the Childrens Service Department have been futile and it cannot now be proved that the children are still alive. 
Maintenance cheques to support the children are paid to an address in Brisbane but are being paid into a Bank 1,200 miles away to redeem a debt that has nothing to do with the interest of the children. The  Clerk  of the Court Brisbane has depended on me to keep the Court informed of the ex-wife's whereabouts. I am unable to comply. 
Why is it that in these circumstances children are not made Wards of the Court and their care given to the Childrens Service Department? Surely this aspect of Family Matters should not be in the Legal System. 
Can I depend on your support for humanitarian justice? 
I agree entirely. It is a pity that more of us have not the time to take a greater interest in some of these tragic cases which the Divorce Law Reform Association of Brisbane brings to the notice of members of Parliament here. I do not think the circulation of these letters follows any exclusive pattern. If the Parliament had not concluded its ordinary business for the day as early as it did tonight, I would not have had the opportunity of putting this letter and other matters on the record. I express to the Divorce Law Reform Association of Queensland my appreciation in the main of the wonderful work that it is doing in its own field together with informing members of Parliament of the great shortcomings and some of the hypocrisy to which the courts resort in divorce matters. 
I appreciate the great talents of the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  but it is a pity that he has referred to a matter which is rather trivial compared with the matter that I am going to mention. I would have even greater admiration for the honourable member for Mackellar if he would use the time of this Parliament to bring to the notice of the Australian people gigantic rackets of the type that I want to re-emphasise and which were referred to in three of the major newspapers today. I believe that the honourable member's Liberal colleagues in Sydney and the Liberal Government in New South Wales are responsible for this continued racketeering and for allowing crook companies and crook company directors to operate. This matter hit the headlines in today's 'Financial Review', the 'Australian' and the 'Sydney Morning Herald'. The honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  and I, together with other supporters of the Government, have expressed and shown concern for some time about the urgent need for action to be taken. We have spoken of the Government's intention to put on the statute book of the nation in the immediate future a uniform companies law so that some of the spivs and racketeers in Australia and from overseas will be eliminated for all time. We learned from the daily Press that two former Hungarians who migrated to Australia have been detained by the police in Paraguay. We know that the Liberal Government in New South Wales has not exerted any great vigour or shown any enthusiasm in attempting to bring back - 
I did not mention their names. The honourable member is trying to stop me again. He is Andrew Jones the second, a oncer. 
Apparently other members of the Opposition would like to hear my submissions but the boy from Hume is not interested in having his mind informed. This morning's 'Financial Review' discloses the result of some few years investigation by investigators. According to a report tabled in the New South Wales Parliament yesterday they have established that a 10-man syndicate of highly disciplined and skilled share traders made almost $5m in profits from insider trading, that is getting the information from the inside. The article in the 'Financial Review ' goes on to say: 
The report, tabled by the Attorney-General,  Mr McCaw,  was prepared by 2 special investigators acting for the New South Wales, Victorian and Tasmanian Government. 
Every Australian is aware that quite recently Mainline Corporation, the former gigantic private enterprise company, crashed, bringing about the ruination of many workers who depended on Mainline for their income and thenjob. Many small investors lost the money they had invested in Mainline. But two of the directors of Mainline were also directors of Endurance mining company. They were  Mr Baker  and  Mr O'Neill.  According to the article in today's 'Financial Review' and similar articles in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' and the 'Australian', these people have made virtually hundreds of thousands of dollars out of their crook practices connected with insider trading. They belong to the 10-man syndicate to which I referred a short time ago. 
-Yes, they are. This clique belongs to two of the posh clubs in Sydney- the Royal Sydney Golf Club and the Union Club. 
I would never want to be a member. I would sooner be a member, as I am, of the Toronto Workers Club and the Kurri Workers Club. Anyhow, these spivs netted $200,000 and more from their shady, crook practices in connection with the Attunga Mining Corporation. These people who are in a Hungarian sponsored clique have rented the present police headquarters premises in College Street, Sydney, at a cost of - 
I am really surprised that the honourable member for Gwydir should try to protect the names of people who got away from Australia with $22m. I will use that fact in the honourable member's electorate next time I am there. I did not think he would compel me to do it. 
I will go to the honourable member's electorate. The honourable member is trying to protect these people. I thought that he would have applauded me for raising this matter. 
-It is very difficult. 

 -Mr Speaker, I have not concluded my remarks. I sat down out of respect to you,  Mr Speaker,  because you asked me to resume my seat. Being a disciplined person I did that. 
-I will tell the honourable member about Askin first. 
-Not to my knowledge,  Mr Speaker.  These people are as elusive as a greasy eel, and any law enforcement authority that can get them before a court is a wizard. I do not think they will ever go before a court. 
-Let me go a little further. This same clique, this same body of people, is renting the police headquarters building in Sydney from the New South Wales Government at a cost of $930,000 a year. The premises are rented by - 
-The premises are rented by the New South Wales Government from the Parkes Development Corporation at a cost of $930,000 a year. 
It is my intention in rising in this grievance debate to conclude some of the remarks that time did not permit me to have included in the record of the Parliament last night. I refer to the racketeering taking place in regard to the Sydney Stock Exchange and the further shocking disclosure which must shake the confidence of people throughout Australia and overseas in the character and integrity of the Sydney Stock Exchange. It has been under criticism from the media and parliamentarians for some time now. I think that if an Australian travelled overseas and the question of the Sydney Stock Exchange was raised, that person would have to hide his head in shame. I pointed out yesterday that three of the major newspapers in Australia- the 'Sydney Morning Herald', the Australian 'Financial Review' and the 'Australian' reported that a 10-man syndicate of highly disciplined and skilled share traders has made almost $5m in profits from insider trading. I believe that these types of rackets or scandals should win the attention of every decent member of Parliament, both State and Federal, irrespective of the political flag which that member carries. 
I think it is a pity that it could be said that the actions of the Premier of New South Wales leave him open to criticism of either a lack of integrity or of being involved. I pointed out last night just before my time expired that the New South Wales State Police Department is paying $930,000 a year for the lease of police headquarters in College St, Sydney, from the Parkes Developments Pty Ltd, one of the new big developers that has come to the fore in Sydney in recent times. My information from Sydney this morning is that the Parkes Developments Company, of which  Sir Paul  Strasser is  chairman  of directors, raised a considerable amount of money from the State Government. An amount in the vicinity of $ 15m was raised from the parliamentary superannuation fund in New South Wales. Also on the board of directors are  Mr and Mrs Ryko  and a  Mr John  Charody. These people are the mainstays of the Parkes Developments Company to which the New South Wales Police Department is paying a fabulous amount for the rental of these premises. I understand that the Premier of New South Wales signed a lease for the premises. I believe that he acted improperly and probably somewhat in a shady way in allowing  Mr John  Charody, one of the directors of the Parkes Developments Company, to accompany him overseas on one of his recent trips. Apparently, they were in Hungary together. As honourable members will know, Hungary is the country from which have come some of the shady company directors who have hit the headlines in Australia in recent times. Our Federal Government has had great difficulty in having these people extradited from Latin America. I believe that there is no legislation - 

 - Mr Speaker, my question is directed to you. Following several telephone calls from people in my electorate of Hunter I ask: Is it a fact that a number of the best speeches made from the other side of the House yesterday were made by the older members of the Liberal Party approaching pensionable age, the early termination of whose parliamentary careers is sought by the young turks of the Liberal Party? 
-On behalf of the Joint Committee on the Northern Territory, I present the report of the Committee on constitutional development in the Northern Territory. A dissenting report signed by a member of the Committee is included with the main report. I also present the minutes of proceedings taken in connection with this inquiry. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I ask for leave to make a short statement in connection with the report. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
1 ) What quantity of milk was imported into New South Wales from Victoria in each of the last 5 years. 
What quantity of (a) cheese, (b) powdered milk and (c) curded milk was imported from New Zealand into (i) New South Wales and (ii) Australia in each of the last 5 years. 
What milk products were brought into (a) New South Wales and (b) Australia in each of the last 5 years. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What percentage of Australian parents claimed the full allowable tax deduction for education of children attending primary and secondary public schools during 1970-71, 1971-72 and 1972-73. 
It is not my intention to use the full time allocated to me in this debate simply for the purpose of hearing my own voice. As Chairman of the Joint Committee on the Northern Territory I have shown considerable interest in the Northern Territory and its people. I join with other honourable members in expressing my deep sympathy to the people of Darwin in the tragedy caused by cyclone Tracy. Particularly I express sympathy to those who have suffered and to those who have lost near and dear ones. 
I am proud of my Government's efforts since this tragic cyclone struck the doorway to Australia. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  came back to Australia to visit Darwin from an important visit overseas. The  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  went to Darwin as soon as practicable. The Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson),  who I think was worthy of the praise given to him by members of the Opposition for his enthusiasm and his interest, arrived in Darwin almost before the cyclone had finished. The honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  and the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  referred to this. 
It made me feel very proud, as an Australian, to see the reaction of the Australian people to those who suffered in Darwin. I sometimes am disappointed with the attitude of some Australian people, but the response in this particular instance throughout Australia was magnificent. There was a terriffic response from my area of Newcastle. My telephone was ringing all the time. People were offering their assistance and were offering to go to Darwin. I told them that they would have to wait because transport facilities were not available The Lady Mayor of Newcastle immediately launched an appeal and there was a very good response. The people of Newcastle raised about $200,000. The local television station, Channel 3, gave magnificent help. 
I sometimes regret that the whole matter has been a shade marred in the Parliament in the last 24 hours. Criticism has been levelled at the Government for attempting to pass the Darwin Reconstruction Bill expeditiously. I appeal to honourable member opposite; that criticism was not deserved. We must remember that a state of emergency still exists in Darwin which calls for emergency action to be taken such as the passage of the Darwin Reconstruction Bill. I repeat that I do not think the criticism which has been levelled at the Government is justified. 
The Minister himself has put great thought and concentration into this matter. Apart from his own skill and knowledge he has had the advantage of the knowledge of efficient and senior public servants in Darwin, such as  Mr Alan  O'Brien and  Mr John  Hogan, who have spent many years in public administration. The Minister has had a team of advisers who have examined this Bill from stem to stern, if I may use that phrase, to see that there is nothing undemocratic in the legislation. It is true that the Commission is to be given wide powers. It certainly has to be given wide powers. The powers to be given to the Commission are virtually wartime powers. All honourable members are aware that in wartime the Parliament has emergency powers to deal with emergency situations. It is only to be expected that emergency powers should be given to this Commission to meet an emergency situation. I think all honourable members should realise this and should not try to make political capital out of this matter. 
Clause 17 (l)(d) of the Bill states that the Commission may sue and be sued in its corporate name. I regret that this is the case. I think it should be made more difficult for people to sue a Commission such as this which is acting in the interests of the people as a whole. Whilst I would not say that the Commission should be absolved from being sued I personally would like to have seen in * he Bill a provision that special leave had to be sought to sue the Commission. I think it should be made more difficult for the Commission to be sued. Occasionally we will get a nincompoop in the community who will say that he will sue a commission. 
The honourable member for Kennedy levelled some criticism at the Minister and at clause 45 ( 1 ) which states: 
Members of the Council shall be appointed by the Minister after nominations have been called for in accordance with this section. 
Again I say that those who nominate no doubt would be screened by very efficient public servants, led by  Mr Alan  O'Brien,  Mr Hogan  and others from Darwin. I have met those gentlemen personally and I have been impressed with their efficiency and sincerity. Furthermore, I remind the honourable member for Kennedy that when he was the Minister for the Army he had certain powers which allowed him to appoint members to the Army Board. The honourable member for Kennedy had great powers in that capacity, lt was never suggested in this Parliament that he or any other Minister for the Army had at any time misused these powers. 
It is generally agreed in this Parliament that a Minister should have these powers because he is answerable to the Parliament should he make any foolish appointments. I do not think that the Minister for the Northern Territory would make any foolish appointments. I am sure that he would carefully scrutinise the recommendations made to him. I will be watching with great interest the powers given to the members of the Commission under the Darwin Reconstruction Bill. I think this is appropriate legislation and I think it is a very good Bill. I hope that it is put on the statute book expeditiously. I congratulate the Minister for Northern Development and all those responsible for the drawing up of the Bill. I believe that this Bill will be to the benefit of the people of the Northern Territory as a whole and the people of Australia. 
-I ask the Minister for the Northern Territory: What has become of the vast amounts of money collected tor the Darwin disaster campaign? Has any of this money been received by the Darwin Trust Fund and, if not, where is the money now and when is it anticipated that it will be received? 
I will be very brief. I appreciate the remarks of the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth).  I only want to add a few comments. My speech will be one of the briefest speeches made on this Bill. I frequently drive from Newcastle to Canberra. In view of what the honourable member for Mackellar has said, I want to add that if rail freights were reduced to a minimum it could have a considerable effect on minimising the number of very heavy trucks which on the main highways are causing frightful traffic hazards and risks to motorists. I recall that this week the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  disclosed to the House some astronomical and frightening figures on the increasing number of deaths on the road. I frequently see large semitrailers overturned on the main highway from Sydney to Melbourne. I sometimes think that we should do more as members of Parliament to try to discourage trailers from running along the main highways, monopolising them, creating traffic hazards and in many cases bringing death to motorists. The business world should be encouraged to use the railway systems. If rail freights were reduced, as the honourable member for Mackellar submitted they should be, this would play an important part in reducing the traffic hazard caused by the heavy trailers on our main highways. I know that the Minister would like to see the fatalities on the road decreased. I think that if something were implemented along the lines suggested by the honourable member for Mackellar it would have a terrific effect on making it more pleasant for motorists to travel the highways. There would be fewer big heavy interstate trucks monopolising the use of the highways as they are doing today. 
I rise to make my contribution to this debate on the very controversial Family Law Bill. I hope to reflect the attitude of my electors of Hunter. I think it is the duty of members of Parliament, irrespective of their personal views on issues such as this, to try to gauge the thinking or the people in their electorate and to reflect the opinions of the majority of people they represent. I honestly believe that the majority of the electors of Hunter would like me to support this Bill in its entirety and that is the line that I intend to pursue. I express deep appreciation to all people, both within and outside my electorate, who have expressed opinions and have made borderline threats in relation to what attitude I should take. I am sincere in saying that I appreciate the letters. Many of them in my view were sectarian inspired. Other letters which I received from inside and outside my electorate were very well written. They were sincere and aroused a great interest in my mind. In the mail this morning I received a letter from  Mrs Lois  Welsh, the Secretary of the New South Wales Labor Women's Committee of the Australian Labor Party which sat last weekend. The Women's Committee has appealed to me.  Mrs Welsh,  in her concluding paragraph, states: 
We call on all Labor members of the National Parliament to give their full support to the Family Law Bill so that it may be passed without further delay. 
I add that it should have been passed, in my view, quite a considerable time ago. I have also received correspondence this week which reveals the attitude of the 'Catholic Worker'. It is alleged by many people who read it to be the expression of opinion of the common layman in the Catholic church. It is a monthly journal. The 'Catholic Worker' in its February edition states: 
The Family Law Bill is enlightened legislation which would buttress marriage. The present Act has the opposite effect. Catholics for the Family Law Bill. 
I have many other impressive letters but time will not permit me to read them into the records of the Parliament. In my lifetime I have seen some of the cruellest and most shockingly framed perjured evidence go before the divorce courts so that the situation became ridiculous. I am thrilled to see that the no fault clause has been inserted into this legislation by my government. However, one is forced- no matter how reluctantly- to face the realities of life. I refer to some of the frailities in the antiquated legislation which this modern legislation is intended to replace. I am sure no honourable member in this House, willingly or unwillingly, will commit an act which will violate the sanctity of marriage or destroy the value of the family unit unless under extreme inducement. But when a marriage is wrecked by one or both parties failing to observe their vows it is our obligation as parliamentarians to legislate in a manner that will bring the least harm to all concerned, particularly to the children of that union. 
I want to refer briefly to how heartbreak, suffering and financial loss can be caused by foolish and unscrupulous men- wealthy, of course- in privileged positions who can manipulate the present antiquated laws to further their own nefarious ends. A few years ago in Sydney there was a case that comes to my mind in which a well-known and influential member of the New South Wales Parliament cooked up evidence for a divorce case. I have before me the record of the evidence that was sworn in the divorce court. This man and his lifelong friend, who was also a member of the Parliament, were able to persuade a perfectly innocent woman to go into the witness box and swear false evidence that she had committed adultery with the member of Parliament who wanted a divorce quickly. The legislation before us will put an end to that practice for all time. 
The judge in this case was a most astute and wide awake gentleman. He was none other than one of the leaders of the New South Wales bar and chief justice in divorce- the late Wilfred Dovey. He was far from happy with the evidence. This resulted in the member who was seeking the divorce consulting with his friend about the possibility of contacting the judge behind the scenes, but after consideration they decided not to go on with the scheme. This is contained in the sworn evidence. However, later on in another court case on a completely different matter this member made available the notes and memos relating to the divorce case to a  Mr Alexander  Barton- whose name has been raised in this Parliament so often by me and by othersof Jetair fame, which incident caused considerable embarrassment to the previous Government. This information and the judge's comments in that case were used to expel one of the 2 parties from the Upper House of the Parliament of New South Wales. The member expelled was Alexander Armstrong, MLC. He was expelled because of the framing of divorce evidence. 
The member who gained all the advantages in this divorce case was none other than Stanley Mowbray Eskell, MLC, a top member of the Liberal Party who is still sitting in the Upper House of New South Wales. Not only did this man refuse to defend his mate, Armstrong, but he also used the privilege of Parliament to further denigrate the woman whom he had divorced. He sat in the Upper House of the New South Wales Parliament and it was his vote alone that resulted in the expulsion of his former friend from the Upper House, thus silencing  Mr Armstrong,  the Liberal MLC, forever. However,  Mr Speaker,  you will ask what was the sequel to this divorce carried out under the present law. Modern legislation of the type before us is long overdue and I am grateful to the present Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  and to the previous Attorney-General for bringing down such legislation. 
Let me return to the matter of the 2 members of the Legislative Council in New South Wales. This same gentleman- Stanley Mowbray Eskell,  Chairman  of Committees of a Liberal State Government- who gave false evidence in the New South Wales divorce court to obtain a quick divorce was then able to marry a wealthy woman. He robbed both her and her brother of over $lm in a company scandal which I have previously mentioned in this House- the San.gara Holdings scandal. When this gentleman had milked his then wife- I use the word 'milked' in the vernacular- when he had fleeced his then wife and her brother of their wealth he left her. When the then  Mrs Eskell  wanted to obtain a divorce she had to face a most horrifying and traumatic experience under the present antiquated legislation to gain her freedom from this man. To this day she has never recovered her health. That is why society should welcome the proposed legislation. 
What I am getting at is that, under the present law, men of influence and wealth are able to manipulate the proceedings of the divorce courts for their own ends- evil or otherwise. Some of the advantages that  Mr Eskell  had which came out in the divorce evidence- let me quote from the court records which I have in my possessionwere that he was a personal friend of  Sir Robert  Askin and  Mr Max  Willis, MLC who guaranteed him a loan of $50,000 with the Rural Bank; he was a paid servant of Vam Limited which gave him $33,000 a year to lobby for it; he was a lobbyist for the Swan Brewery in Western Australiathe documents I have prove this and he confessed it in the divorce court when crossexamined by his wife's lawyer,  Mr O'Keeffe-  he had Tom the Cheap, the man who is in financial difficulties now - 
-Can the Minister for Minerals and Energy give the House any examples of the distortion by premier pricing of shares issued to Australian investors wishing to invest in the residual interest available to them in majority foreign owned companies? 
-Every time I hear the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  speaking on this theme I think of the late  Senator Joseph  McCarthy of the United States of America. As honourable members know, McCarthyism swept the United States and ruined the lives of hundreds of thousands of pubhe servants dedicated to their task in the United States.  Senator McCarthy  died hated, despised, friendless and an alcoholic. I know that, despite the shortcomings of the honourable member for Mackellar, that would not happen to him. But the speech that he has just made is so ill-timed because we read in the media today that the world is becoming more friendly, that United States' warships are at present in Leningrad harbour and, similarly, units of the Soviet navy are visiting American ports. 
We also learn from the media that, in the very near future, there is to be a joint space mission by the United States and the Soviet cosmonauts linking up in space. These sorts of things are the things that people of my own political beliefs love and promote- the world becoming one family. It so ill becomes the honourable member for Mackellar to come out with this old communist bogy that has plagued the world for so long, bringing hatreds between one section of the community and another, causing countries to spend billions of dollars on arms when half the world 's population is going to bed of a night hungry. I think it ill becomes the honourable member for Mackellar to get on to a theme of that sort at this time in the twentieth century when I can see the people of the world, despite the differences in political ideology, becoming one family. I have endeavoured during my 1 5 years in this Parliament to promote such a cause. 
I hope that the honourable member will heed what I say because when he leaves the communist bogy alone he makes great contributions to the debates in this Parliament. We know that he is getting old and grey but he still tries to be the greatest flame thrower that the Liberal Party has on the Opposition benches. He is trying to live up to this reputation. I think he should concentrate during the remainder of his political career, which we know will not be very long, on following a theme to try to bring about a greater understanding between the nations of the world because in so doing he would go out of politics much more respected than he would be by trying to kick the communist bucket around this Parliament as he has been trying to do for so many years. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-My reason for speaking tonight is to raise a subject in which I think every member of this House, and in fact every Australian would be interested. I refer to the cost of manufacture of lifesaving and ethical drugs used in this country with particular reference to the system of distribution and price structure, and the profits shown by the companies in their Australian operations. I suggest that a special division of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization be established to investigate the possibility of the manufacture of alternative supplies of these drugs in Australia, and to make an examination of the patent laws to see whether it is advisable to reduce the currency of patents on drugs from 1 6 years to 5 years. I mention also the circumstances surrounding the takeover of Drug Houses of Australia by Slater Walker Securities Ltd. I consider it important to ascertain whether foreign drug companies are engaged in a gigantic rip-off at the expense of Australian taxpayers. The cost of the pharmaceutical benefits scheme in 1972-73, the scheme responsible for the supply of most of the drugs Used in Australia, was $225.3m. The cost of the drugs supplied by the Government to public hospitals was $32m. This is the extent of the rip-off. 
The majority of the firms operating in Australia are foreign owned multinationals. There are 36 companies owned by American interests, 30 by British interests, 3 1 by European multinationals and only 52 Australian manufacturers are in the trade. The Americans have 60 per cent of the Australian market while Aus.tralians have only 6 per cent of the total market, and that includes the volume of drugs supplied by the Serum Laboratories Commission. It is now necessary to examine how these multinationals operate within Australia. When the drug thalidomide was produced by a West German manufacturer it was decided to hand over the distribution of the drug to a British international whisky combine, Distillers Corporation. 
My word. What happened then is a story known to every honourable member. The firm with which I next propose to deal is Hoffman-Roche which has its headquarters in Basle, Switzerland. This firm has a monopoly on the production of the two most used tranquilUsers, valium and librium. The firm was investigated by the British Monopolies Commission which reported to the Government that the firm was making excessive profits on its products. The British Minister for Trade and Consumer Affairs decided to take action on the report and ordered the firm to reduce the price of librium by 40 per cent and the price of valium by 25 per cent. The Australian Minister for Health, that distinguished Minister  Dr Everingham,  has reported to this Parliament that the firm is charging the Australian Government twice the price for these products that it charges the British National Health Scheme. The Canadian Health Scheme is also charged a cheaper rate than Australia. 
The firm Hoffman-Roche has recently been in trouble with the Common Market and has been charged with violating the Treaty of Rome. Instead of observing the principle of uniformity in prices, it has been playing one member country off against the other with differential price structures. One of the principals of the firm which supplied the Common Market with information about the practices employed has been sent to gaol in Switzerland on a charge of espionage. That is how tough they play the game. I believe the Australian people should know these facts. 
One of the largest of the American distributors is the firm of Parke Davis which specialises in ethical drugs and vitamins. As such it is supposed to observe the ethical code of not publicly advertising its products. But it got around that by retaining chemists in the larger cities to hold talk sessions on radio and television recommending the products by name. Lately they have thrown aU discretion to the winds and have now embarked on a $lm television advertising campaign for Myadec and Paladec. Another large American multinational operates in Australia under the name of Nyal Pharmaceuticals, a subsidiary of Sterling Drugs of the United States of America. In a congressional inquiry into the drug industry, it was shown to own a country-wide chain of drug stores under the name of Liggetts and has a close relationship with I. G. Farben Industries, the German dye trust. 
A leading British multinational heavily involved in pharmaceutical, industrial and agricultural chemicals is the firm of Fisons Ltd. Its chairman of directors, Lord Netherthorpe, recently made a world tour to inspect his satellites. He visited practically every country in Europe, and Africa, India, Japan, South-East Asia, Australia and New Zealand. 
I now come to the story of the takeover of Drug Houses of Australia by the British conglomerate of Slater Walker. Drug Houses of Australia was formed in 1934 by a merger of the leading pharmaceutical firms in Australia. It included Elliott Brothers of Sydney, which had started in business in 1855; Felton, Grimwade and Duerdins which started in Melbourne in 1867; Taylor and Elliott in Brisbane back in 1873; Bickfords in Adelaide, as far back as 1840; and Fairhomes in Tasmania in 1846. Slater Walker was formed in Great Britain by its two principals, J. D. Walker, known as Diamond Jim, a former executive of the Leyland Corporation, and E. Patrick Walker, the shadow Minister for Foreign Affairs in the House of Commons. That shows that the major political parties in Britain have no objection to their leading members engaging in big business. 
Slater Walker set out to establish a conglomerate by taking over businesses in financial difficulty and paying for them with shares issued in Slater Walker. Slater Walker opened a branch in Australia headed by a stock broker, J. M. McAlister. It soon made its presence felt by taking over Australian companies. Amongst them were Wallerawang and Lithgow Valley collieries in New South Wales; Thomas Brown and Sons and Beenleigh Rum in Queensland; Bramac Plastalon and Halifax in plastics in Victoria; and later Don Industries, Beau Monde Hosiery, and Herbert Yates. In 1967 Slater Walker decided to go after Drug Houses of Australia and was successful. At the time DHA had assets conservatively valued at $27m. Slater Walker acquired control of the company by issuing 2.5 million Slater Walker shares for the $12-million worth of DHA shares. Once it got its hands on the organisation, it started its re-organisation in line with the basic philosophy that all that the ailing firms needed was good management. 
It dismissed the State branch managers and replaced the board directors with Slater Walker nominees. When the takeover took place the firm had a staff of 6000. By the time they were concluded, the staff had been reduced to 600. They closed down the wholesale operations in Western Australia. Slater Walker changed its name to Slater Walker Securities Ltd, and shortly afterwards to Austmin- Australian Mineral and Mining Corporation Ltd. But things did not work out as promised. DHA instead of making steady profit, started making large losses. In 1967-70, this ran into $10.8m. The British conglomerate also suffered from the liquidity crisis and had to realise on its properties around the world. It sold its Hong Kong subsidiary, Parkes Hawkes, which was tied to its Australian firm. 
Shortly afterwards, Slater Walker made its fourth change in name, and is now known as Oakbridge. In the process of selling off its assets, Slater Walker sold one third of its Australian assets to  Mr Graham  Mapp, who became executive director of DHA and described that firm as a jewel in the crown of Austmin. Now I turn to the way in which the drug trade came to be made independent of overseas control. The way was shown in 1914 at the beginning of World War I. The supply of pain killing drugs was completely controlled by the German Dye Trust, I. G. Farben Industries, which sold its product under the name of Bayer Aspirin. 
While the supply of the drug was cut off, Aus.tralians still had their headaches, so a St Kilda, Melbourne, chemist, George Nicholas approached the then Prime Minister, W. M. Hughes, and told him he was prepared to manufacture a substitute in Australia. Hughes agreed to back him, and Nicholas produced the tablet known as Aspro. The subsequent story is one of the romances of the Australian business world. All we need now is more manufacturers like George Nicholas. The first step is to reduce the term of protection for the patents of foreign drugs in Australia from 16 years to a maximum of 5 years. We should also authorise the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories to go into production of the substitutes for the most commonly used life saving drugs. 
-There are several matters I want to raise in this Grievance debate and shortly I will add to the remarks made by the honourable member for Ryan  (Mr Drury).  However, last night on the adjournment debate time did not permit me to conclude my remarks in connection with a very serious problem that affects all Australian people, a problem that grew up under the present Opposition when it was in power. My Government, I am proud to say, is struggling with this great problem, the monopoly of the drug industry in Australia. I pointed out last night that the international drug combines control the overwhelming proportion of sales of drugs in Australia. I pointed out that the Americans have 60 per cent of the Australian market while Australians have only 6 per cent. I draw to the attention of honourable members the remarks I made in the Parliament last night and which appear in Hansard today. 
I would like to see my Government authorise the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories to go into the production of the substitutes for the most common life saving and ethical drugs in Australia and further assist it by creating a drug research division of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. Professor Gus Nossal, Executive Director of the Walter and Eliza Hall Trust recently publicly stated that Hoffman-Roche, a Swiss-based international drug company, had not made its riches from the sale of the many drugs it manufactured but almost exclusively from its world monopoly of librium and valium. These drugs are used extensively in Australia and are supplied by that international multi-national drug company. If necessary, the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories could purchase the plant of an established Australian drug manufacturer. 
My final suggestion is that the Government, when framing its coming Budget, may consider the introduction of a foreign profits exports tax, imposing a super tax on the profits of foreign owned corporations operating in Australia and exporting to their overseas principals. Such a tax would cover the profits made not only by the drug combines but also by car manufacturers, oil companies and foreign controlled mineral companies such as Utah Development Company, Mt Isa Mines and Hamersley Holdings Ltd. An article in the Newcastle 'Morning Herald' of 9 May states: 
The Commonwealth Serum Laboratories today sought power to manufacture some of the drugs most commonly used in Australia. 
This could bring them into direct competition with major drug manufacturers. 
A CSL spokesman said the organisation was bound by legislation which restricted it to biological manufacture. 
This legislation, implemented by the previous Government, restricted the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories. The article states further: 
It presented a case for an expanded chaner to the Senate standing committee on health and welfare. 

 Senator Townley (Lib, Tas), a member of the Senate committee, said the move could nationalise the drug industry. 
It could damage the pharmaceutical industry by forcing drug companies to leave Australia, he said. 
The CSL Director  (Dr N. J. McCarthy)  said that under an expanded charter CSL would investigate the opportunities available in the manufacture of the top 20 or 30 drugs used in Australia. 'We would examine the value of sales, the feasibility of producing the drugs, and patent restrictions', he said. 
I virtually touched on that matter in another way last night. I hope that the policies of my Government, which is endeavouring to overcome the monopolistic control of the drug industry in Australia by foreign multi-nationals, will eventuate. 
The second matter to which I refer has been mentioned this morning. It relates to violent television programs. I applaud the honourable member for Ryan  (Mr Drury)  for raising this matter. I now deal with the question of crime and, in particular, with the recent legal decision given in Britain by a top legal authority in connection with rape. Before I expand on those questions I applaud the Women's Electoral Lobby which, I understand, demonstrated outside Parliament House yesterday. I understand its members demonstrated in connection with the liberation in Britain of the law relating to rape. 
Crime in Australia, like that in America and in the Western democracies, has reached an all time high today. Crime is increasing in Australia more rapidly than the population. Yet we find that our legal luminaries in Great Britain which establish our precedents for law, have statedthe media has published this- that if an accused person honestly believes that the female he has raped was a consenting party he cannot be convicted. That leaves the gate open, as I see it, for the most hardened criminals. No matter how violently a female struggles to protect her virginity or to prevent the violation of her body, if the criminal says: 'I believed that when she was struggling she was putting on an act and really consenting', the judge- according to my meagre knowledge of the criminal law- must tell the jury that it is dangerous to convict. I think this is an indictment of the interpreters of the British law in the United Kingdom. 
Our very learned Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  this morning at question time said- I interjected several times which I seldom do- that the witnesses in a criminal trial can be crossexamined with all the vigour that a criminal counsel can muster about their background and asked whether they have any criminal convictions. 
A victim can be interrogated with the greatest vigour and humiliation. I recognise, reluctantly, that about 50 per cent of rape cases are not reported to the police today. 
I appreciate the interjection of the honourable member for Hotham. That could well be the case. I accept the honourable member's interjection because he probably has made a deeper study - 
-The estimate in the United Kingdom is that nine out of ten do not report rape because of the vigorous cross-examination they must face by defence counsel in their desire to obtain acquittals for their clients. Yet an accused person, who could have served 2, 3 or 5 sentences for rape cannot have his background probed. He comes before the jury as virtually- to use the vernacular- a 'clean skin '. 
It is time the legal members of Parliament protested at this anomaly in the criminal law. If they do not, we, the backbenchers should protest. I believe that a person's record should be disclosed to a jury in a criminal case. The judge should say to the jury: 'You can only use that as a guide; you cannot convict him of the charge which is laid against him now simply because he has that previous criminal record. You can use that as a guide to determine whether in view of his background you think he is the type of man who would commit the crime with which he is charged'. Some accused persons come before judges and juries in criminal trials and appear to be lily white. Jurors have frequently said to me after a criminal trial: 'I was astonished to sit in that court and listen to 3 pages of criminal record. In fact, I was reluctant to convict the man but I am glad that I finally agreed now that his criminal record has come out'. There are movements in Britain to amend - 
Is the Minister for Minerals and Energy aware of achievements by the East German Government in the production of oil from coal? Is it impracticable for his Department to send samples of South Maitland coal or Hunter Valley coal to East Germany for the purpose of experimenting in the practice of extracting oil from coal, as this product is supposed to have a good reputation for that process? 
-On behalf of the Joint Committee on the Northern Territory I bring up the Committee's report on Constitutional Development in the Northern Territory, Second Inquiry. I also bring up the minutes of the proceedings taken in connection with this inquiry. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I seek the leave of the House to make a short statement in connection with this report. 
It is with some degree of regret that I listened to the honourable member for Ryan  (Mr Drury),  a man who is generally respected by all members of the House, giving what I consider to be a one-sided version of life in the Soviet Union. I think that most members of this House would not like to live in the Soviet Union, but for the past 50 years that country has been pioneering another political system against hes, subterfuge and great position from the rest of the world. I have been to the Soviet Union on 2 occasions and, like members in this House of all political colours I have enjoyed its hospitality. I know, and the Russians admit, that they have made a lot of errors in pioneering the Soviet system, but they have gained things in that system that are being emulated by many people in the Western world. 
I remember that on my first visit to the Soviet Union I was most anxious to see the kindergartens because I had been brainwashed and led to believe that the children there were taken away from their parents, against the parents' wishes, and brought up in and brainwashed to the communist system. I found that that was not true. I found that working couples voluntarily allowed their children to go to the kindergartens because those couples placed a high degree of importance on producing essential goods for the Soviet Union. After being back here for 3 or 4 years I noted a clamour by organisations for assistance from this Federal Parliament to set up kindergartens throughout Australia. Today they are commonplace. 
Conservative organisations, such as Rotary Clubs, in my electorate of Hunter are working feverishly to establish kindergartens so that children will be cared for while the parents are at work because it has become commonplace for both parents to go to work. I remember a friend of mine from the coalfields in the electorate of Hunter went to Raymond Terrace. I think it was in the electorate of Paterson-  Mr O  'Keefe 's electorateto listen to 2 Soviet diplomats give a talk to Rotarians. During question time the diplomats were asked whether it was true that women worked in all types of professions in the Soviet Union, and whether this was necessary. One of the diplomats answered the questions very courteously by saying that more women worked in the Soviet Union that probably in any other country in the world, the reason being that when they were at war as our allies against the tyranny of Nazi Fascism, so many of their men were in the fighting forces that it was necessary for the women to do the men's jobs. He said that they had lost so many of their men in that warapproximately 20 million to 25 million- that the women who had been trained carried on with their professions after the war. Then, the diplomat added in conclusion that women in the Soviet Union worked for the same reasons as women worked in Australia, that is, to get extra money for the household. I do not think any person could say that that was not a fair and honest answer to a pretty straightforward question put by a member of the audience to the Soviet diplomats. Since there has been a change in the cold war attitude of the Unites States of America, I ascertained recently that the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt),  was very happy to have a member of the Soviet diplomatic staff address meetings in his electorate. I suppose that he has been a little self-conscious knowing that the Soviet Union for many years has been buying considerable quantities of Australian wool which the people in his electorate produce. This attitude that has been adopted in recent years by the honourable member for Gwydir would not have been adopted by any member of the Opposition 5 or 6 years ago because of the fear of being branded a communist. 
I believe that we should not refrain from criticising the Soviet Union at times. But let us be fair and honest about the Soviet Union. Prior to the Russian revolution, 80 per cent to 85 per cent of the people were illiterate. We know that the Soviet authorities have introduced harsh laws. We know that in the Stalin era there was a degree of barbarity in the Soviet Union. Some students of Soviet communism say that harsh rule was necessary during the Stalin era. None of us in Australia have liked then or even now to live under oppressive law. But as I observed the position in the Soviet Union, the Russian people have become adopted to their firm laws. They are a disciplined people. They appreciate it. They realise what they have achieved in 50 years, over coming an 85 per cent illiteracy rate, having suffered 2 world wars and having been cut off from the entire world for 7 years after their revolution. I like to hear members of the Parliament make balanced speeches when they talk about the Soviet Union. As well as criticising the Soviet Union, they should point out the things that are praiseworthy in that country. 
I remember an incident that occurred as a small delegation was wishing me goodbye when I was leaving Moscow in 1962. 1 made the faux pas of saying: 'Is the driver coming in to have a drink?' I was frowned upon. A member of the delegation said: 'Oh, no; he is the driver,  Mr James.  Drivers do not drink here '. I said: 'Oh, I understand. In Australia we have a problem in that there are some 1500 deaths on the road each year. I know that we have many more cars than you do, but the 1500 deaths are causing great concern to our State and Federal governments. What evidence do you put before the courts in Russia in cases involving driving under the influence of liquor, and what is the penalty for that offence?' The Russians said: 'It is 3 months gaol or a fine of 500 roubles'. That is equivalent to $500. 1 said: 'We could not introduce laws like that in Australia, because Australia has a much hotter climate than your country has and 80 per cent of our drivers can drive quite safely after drinking five or six schooners of beer. If we introduced laws that were as harsh as yours, we politicians would be put out of office'. The Russians appreciated the point. 
I said: 'What evidence does the militia put before the court in cases involving driving under the influence of liquor?' They said: 'The police arrest people suspected of this offence and require them to breathe on a sheet of blotting paper. That is the only evidence that is presented to the court. If the blotting paper has changed colour, the person concerned is found guilty'. I said: 'Oh, we could not introduce laws like that. Our people would resent such laws'. But what happened? After four or five years breathalysers were being introduced into Australia. So, we are following the Soviet system in the setting up of kindergartens which we once deplored and criticised - 
-Let me tell the honourable member that I would be found to be sober, but that might not be the case with him. That was an untimely interjection by my learned friend. As I was saying, we now find that we are following the Soviet system in respect of kindergartens and breathalysers. I regret that a man as respected as the honourable member for Ryan is should give such a one-sided speech in bitter criticism of the Soviet Union. I have tried to balance the submissions he made to the Parliament by giving something which is favourable to the Soviet Union and of which I believe the Soviet Union is worthy. 
I ask the Minister for Minerals and Energy: What will be the effect of the proposed coal excise tax on such coal producers as Utah Development in Queensland? Will it be excessive? How will it operate in the NewcastleCessnock region of New South Wales? 
-The more I listen to the remarks of honourable members opposite in this debate the more I am convinced that they have been contaminated over the years by funds from the Central Intelligence Agency. When the CIA gets copies of their speeches in this debate tonight it will most proudly say: 'We have not paid out in vain'. I remember the debates in 1963 on this very important issue that affects the Australian people. I remember the then Prime Minister,  Sir Robert  Menzies, playing down the significance of this base. He used almost identical words to those used by the right honourable member for Bruce  (Mr Snedden)  a short while ago. The right honourable member for Bruce used the phrase: 'This is only a communications facility'.  Sir Robert  Menzies played down the base by saying: 'This base is not a base in the sense of a war base. It is none other than a radio station'. 
I say that it is a base to communicate with 15 to 20 nuclear submarines in the Indian Ocean. That is what its original intention was. 
If the honourable member keeps quiet he will learn something. He was not a member of this Parliament when this debate took place, and he probably will not be a member of this Parliament much longer. It is expected that each nuclear submarine would carry from 15 to 20 nuclear warheads, with a striking power at least 10 times greater than that of the bombs which were dropped on Hiroshima and Nagasaki. Recently there was the 30th anniversary of the dropping of those bombs. When  Sir Robert  Menzies endeavoured to play down this communications station by saying that it was merely a radio station, it was pointed out to him that it was more important than one or two nuclear submarines; that it was a radio station that could communicate with 15 to 20 nuclear submarines as a result of the sole decision of one man, without Australia having any say in it whatsoever. That power was invested in the  President  of the United States who could give the submarines the order to fire. 
At the time of this great debate in this Parliament a nuclear submarine was described by a member of the House of Commons as a mobile nuclear base. This is why at the time the Australian people were so concerned, although Australia, like many countries in the Western world, was then still enveloped in the Cold War. There was the abortive Bay of Pigs invasion, the contemplated invasion of Cuba. This caused Cuba to put Russian missiles onto its territory to defend itself against a contemplated invasion. This was the current of international affairs at that time, when the Labor Party had in its ranks the great divisions to which reference has been made tonight. Members of the Labor Party did not know whether or not they should wholly and solely oppose the base. I believe that the base, even more so today, is offensive to our Asian neighbours in view of the political changes that have taken place at our northern doorstep. All this legislation provides is for the Austraiian Government, on behalf of the Australian people, to have a greater say in the use of the base. It provides that the power of the  President  of the United States of America shall be restricted so that without consultation he cannot give orders to the base to contact nuclear submarines and give the order to fire. This has not been stated in the debate tonight. That is all we ask for. 
Most of the other countries that have American bases on their soil have demanded at the time of the installation of those bases some say in their use. But the present Opposition at the time of the setting up of this base was going 'all the way with LBJ' and 'Waltzing Matilda' with the successive Presidents of the United States. The previous Government virtually sold Australia down the drain. We are seeking to restore some of the dignity of this nation which has been adopting a more independent foreign policy under the leadership of Prime Minister Whitlam. I think it is very timely, if not overdue, for this legislation to come before this Parliament, particularly because of the attitude of the Philippines Government which is expressing indignation or resentment about American bases in the Philippines- the naval base at Subic Bay and the giant airfield known as 'Clark Field '. We all should know, but members of the Opposition would not admit, that the Philippines Government at present is expressing an idea as to how they can get America to relinquish control of those bases. If the Philippines Government cannot get America to relinquish control then it wants a greater say in the use of the bases. If members of the Opposition are frank and honest they will admit that this is true. We all knowthis includes members of the Opposition- that at the present time the Thai Government is most urgently desirous without offending the United States of having the United States relinquish its 5 giant air bases in northern Thailand. That was the opinion expressed to me a few weeks ago when I was in Thailand. 
Yes. There has been so much resentment towards American servicemen in Thailand in recent years that when American servicemen went into the cities they said that they were not Americans. They said that they were Australians. There was a growing indignation towards the large number of American servicemen in Thailand. 
It is true. I recently conversed at some length with an American in Thailand. He was a former soldier in Vietnam. He asked me to tie his handkerchief, which had been slipping down, around his arm. He was having a tattoo removed because it signified that he was an American serviceman. He said that he was ashamed of the role that his country was playing in world affairs. He had been to an appropriate place to have the tattoo removed. 
No. It is a pity the honourable member did not have his damn tongue chopped off because he had not made an intelligent comment tonight. 
I glory in the opportunity of making some reply to the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  on the subject he raised of the 'jobs for the boys' policy, which he accused members of the Labor Party of pursuing. If the Labor Party is pursuing a policy along that line it has adopted it from the practices of the Liberal Party over the years it was in office. Obviously one honourable member on the Opposition side, namely the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland),  who is the shadow minister for the Public Service, has chickened out of this debate this morning because of an article which appeared on the front page of this morning's  Australian.  The article which appeared under the heading: 'Liberals pledge to sack friends of Labor' states: 
The Opposition yesterday decided to remove all public service appointments made by the Labor Government which they consider political. 
The shadow minister for the Public Service,  Mr R.  Garland, . . . 
Obviously the honourable member chickened out because he knew that he could not make such an argument stick, having regard to the historical facts. He left it to the second grade body puncher, the honourable member for Griffith, to make allegations. 
I want to remind the House of the fervent and practised policy of the Liberal Party during the years when it was in office of appointing its party hacks and ex-members and senators to high executive positions inside and outside Australia. I would like to quote from a question on notice asked by the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds)  and the reply to that question by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  The question and answer appear on pages 1304 and 1305 of Hansard of 9 April 1974. The honourable member for Barton asked: 
What Liberal and Country Party (a) Ministers or exMinisters, (b) Members or ex-Members, (c) Senators or exSenators and (d) prominent officials or ex-officials were appointed by the Australian Government to (i) judicial positions, (ii) diplomatic or trade posts, (iii) remunerative positions on statutory authorities or (iv) any other office of profit under the Crown . . . 
The Prime Minister in his usual forthright, truthful and frank manner, which all Australians applaud, answered that question. He said that  Mr A.  I. Allan, who is well known to many members who have been in this House for as long as I and who was a former member for Gwydir, was appointed Secretary-General and Director of the Anzac Agency, Commonwealth War Graves Commission, on 1 May 1969 to the age of 65 at a salary of $9,598 a year. 

 Mr Bill Arthur, a party hack and a former member for Barton, whose smiling face we see frequently around this House, relishes the privileges that his Party has extended to him. Immediately after his defeat by the sitting member for Barton he was appointed Research Assistant to Prime Minister John Gorton at a salary of $7,000 a year at that time. Then we have the Right Honourable  Sir Garfield  Barwick who was appointed Chief Justice of the High Court of Australia. This was an appointment for life at a salary of  1 0,000 per year. The next person mentioned in the Prime Minister's answer is the Honourable  Sir Howard  Beale. I remember that in my father's time he was the member for Parramatta.  Sir Howard  was appointed on 25 November 1957 as Ambassador to the United States of America on a salary of 3,700 per annum.  His  smiling face is seen from time to time at official functions at Parliament House. He is still enjoying some privileges. Then there was the Honourable D. A. Cameron, a former Minister for Health who was appointed High Commissioner to New Zealand. 
The honourable member for Griffith is foolish enough to walk in here like an amateur boxer to get slaughtered over something he cannot justify. If he took up the fight game he would be walking on his heels. The Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham),  would immediately outlaw boxing, which he proposes to do in future legislation, because of the tragic state in which the honourable member would be seen walking around this place. Then we have my old friend on the Public Works Committee,  Mr Fred  Chaney, who was defeated for his Western Australian seat and who was immediately appointed as Administrator of the Northern Territory. This was a pretty popular appointment and he did not do a bad job despite the fact that he belonged to the Liberal Party.  Mr Chaney  was appointed on a salary of $16,438 per annum.  Mr J.  F. Davis, who was a member of this place when I first came here in 1960, was appointed by the Liberal tory Government as  Chairman  of the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories on a salary of $4,000 per annum. He is still  Chairman  of that organisation. 
The next person mentioned in the Prime Minister's answer is  Mr Roger  Dean, a former member of this place whose electorate of Robertson adjoins my electorate of Hunter. He could see the writing on the wall and the decline of the Liberals and he got out of the political arena. He was appointed by the Liberal Government as Administrator of the Northern Territory. I believe that he was in Canberra recently lobbying to get an extension of his appointment as ConsulGeneral to San Francisco which the previous Government gave him. 
No, they did not. Then we have the very dignified and, I understand, one of the most wealthy men who has ever pulled on a political boot, who was in this House for many years and who always saw that his tie was correctly adjusted. I refer to  Sir Alex  Downer, the man who had a deer park on his property.  Sir Alex  was the former member for Angas who was followed in this place by the present honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles). Sir Alex  was appointed High Commissioner to the United Kingdom on a salary of 7,209 per annum. He served five or seven years in this capacity, and did not do a bad job. He has now come back and is lobbying and talking about re-entering politics in Australia. Then there was  Sir Josiah  Francis, who was appointed as Consul-General to New York on a salary of 2,850. Gordon Freeth, a former Minister of the Crown in the tory Liberal Government, was defeated for. his electorate in Perth and was immediately appointed by the tories to the senior diplomatic post of Ambassador to Japan. 
-If I thought that you would be entering a mental hospital I would not mind taking an appointment as attendant at the hospital to see that you did not get out. There has been a mental deterioration since you came here. 
The next person mentioned in the Prime Minister's answer is  Mr Gullett,  who I understand passed away recently. He was appointed Trustee, Australian War Memorial, and later he was appointed by the tories as Ambassador to Greece. The late Right Honourable  Sir Eric  Harrison, commonly referred to in his time here as the Bondi miner, was appointed High Commissioner to the United Kingdom.  Sir Eric  was a prominent red hot tory. That dignified gentleman,  Sir Paul  Hasluck, was appointed GovernorGeneral of Australia by the tories at a salary of $20,000 a year. The answer also mentions John Howse, another Liberal hack; Percy Joske who was appointed to the Australian Industrial Court; the late Dame Enid Lyons who was appointed to the Australian Broadcasting Commission; and that dignified old scholar Dan MacKinnon, who was in the Parliament when I came here and who was appointed Ambassador to Argentina, Uruguay and Peru. The list on page 1305 of  Hansard  mentions many more names. 
I am assured that there are certain members of the Liberal Party who are only hanging on in anticipation that their Party may get into power at the next election. I understand that the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  is an aspirant for the Governor-Generalship of Disneyland because of his long and unswerving loyalty to United States imperialism. Then I understand that the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  due to the swinging nature of his seat, is an aspirant if the Liberals get into power to be one of the  Olympic  commissioners and a special adviser on short and long distance running because of his special talents in this regard. I understand that when the Liberals get into power again the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  aspires to be appointed to the International Bank. I understand that the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  is ready, on a change of government, to get out of Parliament to become the Administrator of the Northern Territory. The honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  has already indicated his intention to resign. He is an aspirant for a job on the Wheat Board. I understand that the right honourable member for Bruce  (Mr Snedden),  due to his disappointment over losing the leadership, is first cab off the rank for the first judicial post that becomes vacant should the Liberals get into power. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MartinOrder! The honourable member's time has expired. 

-I am sorry to say that what the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  just said is not the best speech I have heard him make. I appreciate his past commendation of my Government for the manner in which it handled events after cyclone Tracy but I do not believe my Government is deserving of his criticism this evening. My Government is concerned about the rebuilding of the Northern Territory. The honourable member for the Northern Territory is a member of the Joint Parliamentary Committee on the Northern Territory and, if my memory serves me correctly he with other members of that Committee inspected the tragic devastation of the Northern Territory. Many members of that Committee agreed that there well could have been some hankypanky business in the building of some of the houses that were blown down. They believe that the houses, when built, did not conform to the specifications laid down, otherwise they would have resisted to a greater degree the cyclone. 
I agree with my Government that it is better to be patient and have houses properly reconstructed, although there is an unfortunate delay, than to have them jerry built as was the case prior to the cyclone. I believe this is one of the major reasons for the delay in rebuilding. I should like to disclose another reason for the delay. I waited patiently for it to emanate from the lips of the honourable member for the Northern Territory. I thought he would have enlightened the House as to why, if my information is correct, his colleague,  Mr Geoff  Letts, the Leader of the House in the Northern Territory, has resigned from the Darwin Reconstruction Committee. I would like the  Deputy Speaker  to give the honourable member for the Northern Territory time to tell the House why this resignation. My investigators in the Northern Territory are working on this matter now. I believe they may well unearth evidence of some hankypanky business going on with certain contractors who are submitting tenders to rebuild Darwin. My investigators believe that certain shady things are going on. I understand, and it could be a fact, that  Mr Geoff  Letts fears that he could get his fingers burned and he has got out of the Darwin Reconstruction Committee. 
I hope the honourable member will inform the House as to the reason in the forthright manner he assumes to possess when he speaks in this Parliament from time to time. The Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson)  has already disclosed to this House the shocking exploitation that is going on in the Northern Territory by certain people who are renting houses at exorbitant rates. There is exploitation with respect to food and other commodities essential for the maintenance of life. I think the honourable member for the Northern Territory should be raising his voice about certain people he claims to represent but who are exploiting the unfortunate people of Darwin at this moment. The honourable member is afraid of losing votes. He tries to' keep on side with everyone. A medical examination of him would show some splinters in the lower part of his anatomy from fence sitting. He wants to watch out that he does not get blood poisoning too. 
In my opinion this Budget is a blueprint for the times. It has been referred to by many sections of the media. An editorial in the  Sydney Morning Herald  states: 
In political terms the Budget has been carefully framed to put trie Opposition on its mettle. According to  Mr Hayden  the Government faced a potential deficit of about $5,000m  before it began its program of cuts. It has managed to bring that down to $2, 798m and accommodated tax cuts. 
The Melbourne  Age,  a paper not always on the side of the Whitlam administration, stated: 
The Budget brought down by  Mr Hayden  last night is a model of restraint and balance. No longer is the public sector to be the supreme spender. At last encouragement is being offered to the battered private sector and relief to the burdened taxpayer. 
The Budget is unashamedly deflationary in intent, on the unassailable logic that unless the rate of inflation is reduced, Australia's productive capacity will run down. 
Other sections of the media, important sections owned by the newspaper magnates of Australia, have had to succumb to the logic and fairness of this Budget.  (Quorum formed).  Time will not permit me to read to honourable members what has been said by the Press. It is obvious that members of the Opposition do not want me to have those remarks recorded in  Hansard.  However, other sections of the Press have paid tribute to my Government for its Budget. Prior to the presentation of the Budget the Opposition had always asked for cuts in Commonwealth Government expenditure. When we asked whether they would slash defence expenditure, members of the Opposition said: 'Oh, no'. When we asked whether they would slash health expenditure, they said: 'Oh, no'. When we asked whether they would slash expenditure on housing they said: 'Oh, no'. When we asked whether they would slash the Regional Employment Development scheme they said: 'Oh, no '. 
The honourable member for the Northern Territory, who spoke a few moments ago, said that the people of Darwin had been deprived of the opportunity to invest money. I take advantage of the Budget debate to tell the House and the honourable member that the reason why people are reluctant to invest in the stock exchanges of this country is the corruption which has been going on in the free enterprise section of the society and which, in the main, is causing people to put their savings in banking accounts. The entire field of company law in this country needs a complete overhaul. But in the present situation we cannot expect the Liberal-Country Party controlled States to countenance or to cooperate in introducing uniform legislation, particularly because many of their members are in the share rackets themselves. The House will remember that a few years ago many of them accepted shares at par in Conzinc Riotinto of Australia Ltd and in Comalco Ltd and that the notorious Queensland peanut could see no harm in his Ministers taking free shares in multinational companies. 
What is needed is legislation that will protect the investing public, the superannuated teacher, public servant, policeman or soldier and the widow, all of whom are looking for a safe investment for their life 's earnings to protect them during their retirement. The present stock exchanges in the States are closed clubs which make their own laws, particularly in New South Wales. .They are a law unto themselves and have encouraged the flotation of spurious companies. Let me give just a few examples: H. G. Palmer (Consolidated) Ltd and the MLC affair, the Shapowloff inquiry, the Barton fiasco, and the Halls Peak, Castlereagh Securities and Latec companies. The Latec company originated in Newcastle and, unfortunately, caught many of my constituents. Patrick Partners and the archLiberal,  Mr Baume,  and hundreds more in all States have contributed to the destruction of the Australian investors' confidence in Australian companies. 
What is needed- vitally needed in my view- is the establishment of a government controlled and regulated stock exchange operating from Canberra under the Whitlam Administration with agencies in all States. No matter how sound some Australian companies may be they all suffer because of the reputation of a few. Retired school teachers, public servants and defence force personnel will not risk their superannuation because of careless operations in the stock exchanges and loose State laws- laws that have loopholes a pregnant diprotodon could jump through. At present in New South Wales the Corporate Affairs Commission has inspectors investigating the operations of more than 290 companies. The members of the Opposition are always saying that we are a socialist government. They ought to be proud that they are members of free enterprise parties when 290 companies are being investigated because of their activities in New South Wales, at the risk of more than $2 70m of public money going up the spout This represents more than $70 for every man, woman and child in New South Wales. Honourable members should consider even the taxes that have been lost on this money. 
The Corporate Affairs Commission has only 48 inspectors handling these difficult and often intricate and entangled investigations. It has fewer investigators than the New South Wales Liberal-Country Party Government has assigned to the investigation of the petty handed crime of shoplifting. When a person is charged with shoplifting a packet of cigarettes he is immediately arrested and prosecuted. These investigators of the Corporate Affairs Commission in New 
South Wales have, firstly, to recommend prosecution to the Commissioner for Corporate Affairs and then have to seek the approval of the Crown Law Office. Following approval being granted they have to seek further approval from the Minister for Justice and the AttorneyGeneral in New South Wales. This is even before a prosecution can ensue. 
The man who steals a packet of cigarettes is prosecuted immediately and branded for the rest of his life as a criminal if convicted. It reminds us of the way they dug into the murky depths of police records in Brisbane recently to try to besmirch  Mr Colston.  The man who robs the public of millions of dollars is treated like a gentleman while the investigators wend their way through the red tape of approvals. Many of these master criminals are able to escape justice by skipping the country. The law in New South Wales seems to have been enacted to protect the corporate criminals rather than to protect the investing public. In the Barton case, which one never hears mentioned by members of the Liberal and Country parties,  Mr McCaw,  the former AttorneyGeneral in New South Wales, was responsible for authorising the prosecution. He has been a senior partner in the firm of solicitors, McCaw, Johnson and Company, who were advising  Mr Barton.  I produced positive evidential proof of that in this House when I spoke on previous occasions. 
Any policeman on his own account can charge a law breaker but a highly skilled investigator of the Corporate Affairs Commission in New South Wales has to get the Minister's consent to charge these kinds of crooks. That is why most LiberalCountry Party State government company laws provide havens for rogues and spivs of all descriptions. This is why the Liberal-Country Party State government company laws allow these men to fleece the investing public of millions upon millions of dollars. All this was revealed in the Rae Committee's report, which no one can deny. I have a copy of a speech made by the honourable member for Campbelltown in the State Parliament. It refers to Ralph King and Yuill and Patrick Partners. I ask that it be incorporated in  Hansard. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
As approximately 296 companies in New South Wales have collapsed in the last 12 months, involving amounts of shareholders' moneys approximating $270 million, will the Minister, if asked by a responsible Minister of the New South Wales Government, refuse to issue a passport to any director or officer of a company which, at the time of application, is under investigation by the New South Wales Corporate Affairs Commission. 
I address my question to the Minister for Minerals and Energy: Is the Minister aware of the meeting being held today between State Ministers for Mines and/or Energy relative to the forthcoming indigenous oil pricing policy? What is his answer to the criticism of his Western Australian counterpart,  Mr Mensaros? 
I wish to make a personal explanation. I wish to apologise for any inconvenience suffered by  Mr Joe  Gullett, the former member for Henty, or by any of his relatives. As appears on page 1036 of  Hansard  for last Thursday, I was answering what I thought were unfair allegations against my Party by the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  who accused my Party of unfairness in political appointments. I pointed out how in my opinion the previous Government, or the tories, had abused this privilege over the years. I said that  Mr Gullett  was one of many members of the Liberal and Country Parties who had been appointed to overseas posts or important public posts in Australia. I also stated that I thought that  Mr Gullett  had passed away recently. That is where I made a mistake. 
I have never slandered anybody in my life. If I have been tempted to do so it is because of what I have heard from the Liberals since I have been in this place. They are the slanderers. I also want to thank the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  with the utmost sincerity for bringing this matter to my notice. I humbly solicit forgiveness for the error I have made. 
I meant the honourable member for Griffith. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. On page 1063 of  Hansard  of 4 September is reported a reference I made to  Mr Goff  Letts, the Leader of the majority party in the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly in Darwin. My personal belief is that the words I used could not be interpreted as besmirching the character of  Mr Letts.  But apparently some people hold the view that I was trying to denigrate his character. I have complete faith in the honesty and integrity of  Mr Goff  Letts. Should he have interpreted my remarks as being offensive I would like to express my regret as there was no intention in those remarks to cast any aspersions whatsoever on his character. 
-I congratulate the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  on the job he has done, the job that he is doing and the job that he intends to do. 
-I mean the Minister for . Transport. I think my language is quite clearly understood. The honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon),  the shadow Minister who has just sat down, criticised the Minister for not providing funds for this phase of transport and that phase of transport. From time to time in the Parliament we hear criticism of the Government for spending too much of government funds on government instrumentalities. We find a great inconsistency with members of the Opposition on the expenditure of Government money. In one breath they say that not sufficient is being spent and in the other breath they say that too much is being spent. 
I believe that one of the greatest problems confronting this hardworking and honest Minister is the creation of another international airport in the metropolis of Sydney. I have consulted my constituents in the Wyee region and I have had almost unanimous agreement that if the Government intends to site another international airport due to the overloading of the Sydney Airport the Wyee people would welcome it coming to thenregion. It is pretty flat country in the area of Wyee and it is sparsely settled. Therefore the hazard of complaints from householders of aircraft noise would not arise to the extent that is has arisen in the metropolis of Sydney. One of the reasons that Tullamarine Airport was sited where it is was that it was in a farming area and the problem of noise affecting the householders would not be a major problem to the then Department of Civil Aviation. Wyee is almost within an hour's driving time of Sydney. When one takes into consideration the distance from the main cities of other airports around the world that is not a big distance. We know that the siting of airports is a difficult problem for any government due to objections from the public to. aircraft noise that flows from the siting. This was a problem for the previous Government. It had to find a site for another airport. 
The previous Government did have the same problem. Do not let us hide it. At the time the electorates of St George and Barton were represented by supporters of the previous Government it had to meet the same objections as we do now in regard to an airport in the southern suburbs of Sydney. The matter was political at that time and it became a hot political football in the electorate which included Galston Gorge. I understand that the Department of Civil Aviation has considered Wyee as the site for an alternative international airport. I sometimes think that the Tullamarine airport will succeed Mascot airport in importance because of the curfew that is imposed at Mascot, but I believe nevertheless that the curfew at Mascot airport should be continued. Unfortunately the Tullamarine airport has an advantage over the Mascot airport. Tullamarine is increasing its air cargo traffic because there is no curfew at the airport. Planes land at all hours of the night. This is not so at Mascot airport because my Government and the previous Government put the considerations of the people before the convenience of international air carriers. 
Another thing I should like to mention in these Estimates is the rebuilding of the Wyee-Wyong road. I know the Minister is concerned about this matter. From time to time in the Newcastle  Herald  which has wide circulation in Newcastle and the Hunter Valley, we read of the frequent serious accidents on the Pacific Highway in the region of Doyalson which are contributed to by inadequate roads for the volume of traffic carried. I travel frequently from my electorate to Parliament. For  50  per cent of the trips I drive and for the other  50  per cent I fly. The volume of traffic is increasing on the back road from Wyee to Wyong. The back road is called the Hue Hue Road. I know that there is a great deal of public agitation for the upgrading of the Hue Hue Road. If the Minister, among his many other major problems, can find his way clear to allocate some funds for the upgrading of this road the users would be grateful. My colleague the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  is also greatly interested in this matter. I think the upgrading of the road would be too costly to be undertaken by the Wyee Shire Council, in whose shire this road is located. A Commonwealth grant from the Minister's Department is necessary. 
As I say, the increasing amount of traffic is over-burdening the road. People prefer to travel on this road despite its very poor condition. It is a gravel road of about  3V  miles and it is in very poor condition. Motorists prefer to travel it rather than travel the crowded Pacific Highway where there is the possibility of having a smash with one of the many heavy transports that travel the main highway. The Hue Hue Road is a much shorter route for people travelling from Wyong to Toronto, New England and the north coast. I realise the Minister's problem in having to site another international airport. I hope that the 
Minister will, in time, give consideration to the siting of another international airport at Wyee. I believe the people of Wyee would welcome an international airport as it would give a tremendous uplift to this small country town. They are the only submissions that I wish to make on these estimates. 
Is the Minister for Services and Property aware of a report that to make a good showing in marginal seats at any future election an adequate sum for campaign expenditure will be at least $20,000? Will he state whether this expenditure contravenes the Electoral Act, which limits the amount to be expended on behalf of candidates for House of Representatives elections to $500? 
-Time will not permit me to say very much in this debate. I appreciate the manner in which the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar)  has put his case. There was a good deal of merit in much of what he had to say. I personally have been concerned about Australia becoming a dumping ground for refugees from countries that become involved in internal turbulence and revolutions. I have been prompted to attempt to reply to the honourable member for Warringah because he referred to political refugees following the 
Chilean revolution. I would be the first to apologise if I were incorrect in interpreting his remarks as being opposed to the acceptance of Chilean refugees because the ones most likely to defect from Chile were the pro-Allende supporters. 
I want to remind honourable members that what concerns me is the type of refugees that the Government which the honourable member for Warringah supported allowed into this country from Hungary following the uprising in that country in 1958, 1 think it was. 
Not all of it, but there were many whom the Government you supported allowed into this country who claimed they were freedom fighters from Hungary. Admittedly- I make this clear very early in my remarks- we got a lot of decent citizens from Hungary. They have settled here and they have adapted themselves to the Australian way of life. I believe that if we were able to assess the figures we would find that for every decent citizen who has settled here and has been an asset to Australia we got two or three scum, professional criminals who came from Hungary because they knew their chance of survival in Hungary under communist law was nil. We know people in these countries have not got freedom. These people would very quickly have been drawn into the police net in Hungary because of the super powers that the police in countries such as Hungary have. We got a lot of the so-called freedom fighters. I believe that at that time if a person could convince the immigration authorities that he was fleeing from communism he was OK. All he had to say was 'I hate communism' and that was nearly a passport to come to Australia. This happened when the Government which the honourable member for Warringah supported was in office. It involved not only people from Hungary but also people from Hitler's Germany. The honourable member was not in this place at the time one of the major eastem European countries made an application to the then Attorney-General, the present Chief Justice of the High Court, to extradite to the Soviet Union mass murderer- and I name him again in this place- -Evon Vicks. I read a transcript of the evidence from the court in Tartu, in Estonia. He committed shocking atrocities on his own people. The Australian Government, rightly or wrongly- I will not comment on it- refused Soviet authorities permission to extradite him to try him as a war criminal. There are many other fascist war criminals still in Australia. They came here during the term of office of the government formed by the parties that the honourable member supports. They are living in comfort and security in Australia, in the metropolis of Sydney, and some of them have substantial wealth. At an international forum in Brazil at one time I said that I would like to see international extradition treaties with all countries. I would like to ensure also that in the case of a person sought in Australia for a crime in another country, that country shall establish a prima facie case in our courts in accordance with our law before our Government hands over that person. 
What type of refugee has caused great turbulence and trouble in Australia? Have they not been the Croats from the Greek region? The honourable member for Warringah must confess that that is so. Has it not been the Croats that have set off bombs around our cities? 
-Was it not 2 Croats who bombed the Soviet Embassy in this city on the third occasion? Was it not 2 Croats who motored across from Perth to Canberra and committed that crime, or should I be corrected? They were fascist-minded people. When the honourable member raises this question about the Labor Government - 
The honourable members interjecting are trying to turn serious remarks into something of mirth and I do not think it is appropriate to do so. That might be appropriate at some other time when I am speaking. The refugees I was talking about who were allowed into this country by a government formed by the Opposition parties bombed the Soviet Embassy and unfortunately our courts only gave them about 12 months gaol. That was a disgrace to the then government because it was an insult to one of the world's greatest powers. The Whitlam Administration is trying to build Australian goodwill with all countries. I think we should show some concern about Australia being a dumping ground. I agree with that part of the honourable member's speech. I also am concerned about that aspect. I think we should remove ourselves from the emotional atmosphere when there is disturbance in other countries. These people should not be able to flee into Australia; they should be screened properly and thoroughly-more thoroughly than has been done before. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 

 Sitting suspended from 5.58 to 8p.m. 

Department of Health 
Proposed expenditure, $1 19,963,000. 
Department of Repatriation and Compensation 
Proposed expenditure, $260,254,000. 
Department of Social Security 
Proposed expenditure, $ 1 ,706,890,000. 
-Is the Minister for Defence aware of any moves to reinstate the school cadet system. 
I am inspired to speak in this debate by the remarks of the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Conolly).  I wish to direct my remarks in the main to the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation Bill and the Telephonic Communications (Interception) Bill. I want to make it clear that we do not hide the fact that the Chifley Labor Government brought about an Australian security organisation. The reasons for bringing it about were that the Japanese were knocking at our door and Australia could no longer - 
-It was after World War II when Australia was asking America or was dependent upon America for arms. The United States asked what type of security organisation we had and we had to confess that we had virtually no security organisation. So that we could be reassured by the United States that it would be forthcoming with modern arms the United States asked us to set up an Australian security organisation. We did so. We put it under the control of a judge who was trained in the rights and freedoms of the British people under British law. I am speaking off the cuff, but from memory the Australian security organisation was set up under  Mr Justice  Reid. 
When the present Opposition came into power it put the security organisation under the control of a military person- I think it was  Colonel Spry-  who was not trained to the same degree as a member of the judiciary in the freedoms and rights of the British people, which applied also to the Australian people. During the long period of office of the present Liberal-Country Party Opposition it used the security organisation as a political police force. I remember allegations being made in this Parliament by the former Leader of the Opposition, the right honourable member for Bruce  (Mr Snedden),  and it was obvious from what he said that within an hour of a certain debate taking place in this chamber he got in touch with ASIO and asked what it had on its file against the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns).  It is obvious that ASIO was being used as a political police force. 
I appreciate some of the remarks of the honourable member for Bradfield, particularly when he said that no Australians want to see this country become a police state, but is was his Party which was close to developing this country, under ASIO and  Colonel Spry,  as a police state. I know from my previous occupation that many files in ASIO- I have never contributed to the compilation of any of them- could and may have wrecked the promotion prospects and the careers of many decent Australian public servants because of the methods that ASIO was using at the time of the present Opposition's administration. That matter has been lightly treated by the Press and by members of this Parliament, but it amazed me during the last 6 months that it was disclosed by one section of the media and played down considerably when the chief director of the Central Intelligence Agency of the United States had visited Australia and conferred with the administrator of ASIO.  (Quorum formed)  Before the call for the quorum I was informing the House that to the amazement of many Australians the director of the United States CIA was in Australia two or three years ago when the previous Government was in office conferring with the director of ASIO. I think it was  Mr Helms  at the time. If changes had not taken place and the present Opposition had remained in power one could well say the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation was going to follow the same pattern as the American CIA which has brought disgrace to that country all over the world. It has brought the name of that great country into the gutter. That was the way we were drifting, for obvious reasons, when the Director of the American CIA saw fit to come to Australia and confer with the Director-General of ASIO. 
The honourable member for Riverina keeps interjecting. He reminds me of a boy who had an overdose of laxatives but was not aware of it until he took his bicycle clips off. Criticism has been made of my Government for transferring from the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  the powers of telephonic interception. I do not think the transfer is any denigration of the Attorney-General's high office. I think it indicates the importance with which the Prime Minister regards telephone interception when the highest office holder in this country sees fit to bear the responsibility himself. The transfer is no denigration of my colleague. Every member of my party and my Government has the greatest respect for his ability and his sincerity. 
They have been criticising the transfer of the power from the Attorney-General to the Prime Minister. I repeat that the Prime Minister regards telephonic interception as vitally important and an intrusion into one's private affairs. Let me tell a story which is worth reviving in this Parliament. The honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly)  laughs with sarcasm and irony. He is too young to know. He has a hell of a lot to learn. I would have appreciated it if he had told the Parliament in his speech, which immediately preceded mine, that, after  Mr Menzies-  he was not then  Sir Robertthe  Prime Minister of Australia had been given the important task by the British Government of negotiating with  Colonel Nasser  following the Suez Canal crisis, he came back to this Parliament or he had printed in a book that in Egypt  Colonel Nasser-  the honourable member for Bradfield served as a diplomat in Egypt and would be more aware of this fact than any member of the House, but withheld it from his speech- was virtually in charge of a police state. He said there were secret microphones and telephone tappings. Then  Sir Robert  proceeded to introduce telephone tapping laws into this Parliament. This was very effectively pointed out to  Sir Robert  by that forthright and honest politicianone of the most honest that ever pulled on a pair of boots and entered this Parliament- the late member for East Sydney, Eddie Ward. 
I applaud my Government for taking the effective steps that it has taken in connection with the administration of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation and for transferring the responsibility of telephone tapping to the highest man in this land, the Prime Minister. We regard telephone tapping as a serious intrusion and consider that it should be used only on very special occasions in the interests of the nation. The appointment of a judge to administer ASIO is something that the Labor Party for many years said it would do when it came into office so that the lives and careers of decent public servants and Australians shall not be put in jeopardy by scurrilous informers who can ruin careers by putting on an ASIO file something in respect of which a person has no redress. 
Has the AttorneyGeneral seen a statement by  Mr L.  C. Gruzman, Q.C., attacking the Australian Government? As the first law officer of Australia can the AttorneyGeneral inform the House whether there is any substance whatever in  Mr Gruzman's  claims that the Australian Government is acting contrary to the law in refusing to accept the Senate Opposition's blackmail? Is  Mr Gruzman  a recognised authority on the Australian Constitution or is he a distinguished criminal lawyer? Is he the lawyer who defended Alexander Barton and his son against the charge of defrauding Australian shareholders of crook companies that  Mr Barton  formed to the tune of $22m? Is he the Queen's Counsel who flew to Paraguay to give  Mr Barton  advice on how to avoid extradition to Australia? 
-No, but it reads: 
The Government is not concerned with power for itself. It is the servant of the Australian people. Its purpose is to work with the people to create an Australian democracy which will be an example to the world of what a free people can achieve. 
I believe that they are idle, insincere words which an eminent journalist says were written into the speech by  Mr Fraser.  They were his only contribution to this document. If I am permitted to proceed without any further interruptions I will point out that the Government intends to sell down the drain Australia's natural resources, particularly uranium. This frightens me. Some facts were pointed out, I believe correctly, by the former  Chairman  of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission,  Sir Philip  Baxter, in an article in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of last Tuesday about uranium when he said: 
At a present reserve of 300 000 tonnes- though much more will be discovered- and at prices likely in the next decade, they are worth about SI 8,000m and should not cost more than S6,000m to extract. The profit could be around $ 12,000m, a substantial part of which should belong to Australia. 
We are all aware that the National Country Party and the Liberal Party received unlimited funds for their campaigns from the multinationals, particularly the mining companies, so that the legislation which the Labor Party had introduced, could be altered. 
Get up and deny it. I am making the allegation. The honourable member can get up and deny it. 
-They would not tell the honourable member for Maranoa about it. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member for Hunter. 
-What about him? 
My question relates to extravagances, a word used by the Prime Minister a short time ago. Does the Prime Minister recall in his policy speech giving a commitment to end Government extravagances and excesses? Is it a fact that he is holding a series of social functions at the Lodge this week to which more than 500 guests have been invited? Is it a fact that special crockery has been brought over to the Lodge by the caterers and that special champagne at $25 a bottle has been ordered? Does he intend to continue such extravagances whilst other sections of the community are expected to accept his call for national restraint in spending? Will he also disclose the total cost of these functions and how many pensioner funeral benefits could have been paid from that amount? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, my wife asked me to congratulate you on your appointment. 
The last words of the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher)  were: 'Let me get back to where I started '. I was waiting for him to start, because he had not said anything that impressed me during the whole of the 20 minutes that he held the floor. I expected that this boy from Hume would advance considerably in the National Country Party when he came here. I reckon that the speech he made tonight was, by far, not his best. Several times in his speech he said: 'Let us get away from the past'. I can well understand that, because he and many who support his political philosophy are ashamed of the past. But we on this side of the House will never let the members of the Government forget the filthy past and what was resorted to for some time before they captured the Treasury benches in this Parliament. It would do the honourable member for Hume good to read the document that I have in my hand in relation to superphosphate bounties. In the main, superphosphate bounties do not benefit the small farmer. No one on the Government side or in cockies corner immediately on my left can conscientiously say that the superphosphate bounty is fairly distributed between all sections of the rural community. In 1974 the previous Government asked for some figures as to who benefited from the fertiliser bounty and it was supplied with figures and names showing all those who received 400 tonnes or more in 12 months received a subsidy of $5,000 or more. The Australian taxpayer was subsidising fertiliser that contained 19.5 per cent to 20.5 per cent superphosphate to the tune of $12 a ton. Among the names on the list of recipients are great pastoral companies. I believe that most of them would have their own private services that they fly around from-. The honourable member for Kennedy, who is interjecting, should go back west and drive his camel team. He might learn a bit more. He has been conning the people of his electorate too long. They will wake up to him one day. He is taking advantage of a  Deputy Speaker  who is allowing him a lot of latitude. But when members on this side interrupt they are immediately pulled up. Among the names of recipients of fertiliser bounty are R. J. Cornish and Co. Pty Ltd, J. A. Cuthbertson Pty Ltd, F. Fairthorne and Son Pty Ltd, and John M. Fraser, Nareen. I believe that that is the Prime Minister. So if one considers that he received $5,000 in superphosphate bounty in a period of 1 2 months, over 10 years he would have received $50,000 in superphosphate bounty. But now what the Government is doing- and the Australian people should be made well aware of it- is robbing the pensioners. 
I say to the honourable member for Kennedy: My background is cleaner than yours. You have been in every political party in Australia, including the Communist Party and the Democratic Labor Party. Your record is not clean. You are not fit to sit in this Parliament. You are a confidence man. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, you were aware that I could handle the honourable member for Kennedy without your intervention, were you not? 
The honourable member is sitting behind a Prime Minister who came out in the election campaign and promised to cure inflation and unemployment overnight. I described him to the people in my electorate as the great magician of Australian politics- the Franquin of Australian politics. He will cure your dandruff, your lumbago, your sciatica, your headaches and your haemorrhoids if you give him a chance to get into power. I believe he will be the greatest flop of a Prime Minister that has ever occupied the Prime Ministership of this country. He is already embarrassed by what is happening to him and his Party in its ministerial ranks. I have always respected certain journalists, and I wish to pay a tribute to  Mr Cranston,  a forthright journalist, and I wish to pay a tribute to the  Canberra Times  and to a man named Cavanough for disclosing something that attacks the very roots of our democratic system, and that is graft in politics. Graft in politics will bring down people's democracy more rapidly than anything else. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! I suggest the honourable member for Riverina and other honourable members are not assisting the Chair in behaving as they are during the speech of the honourable member for Hunter. If the House does not come to order some honourable members may not be in this chamber when it adjourns. The honourable member for Hunter, because of his vast experience, knows something of the standing order relating to matters that are  sub judice  and I would suggest that he be very careful with his comments in relation to the matter he is now debating. 
-I shall be very careful. The official report of my speech will prove that I am careful because I know that you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  probably have had instructions to curb certain comments. 
I have made no reference to it. 
The public here does not know. You know because your own mind has been informed, and not from what I have said. Comments have appeared in the Press and have been made in this House. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I will endeavour with all my might to accept your guidance. With great respect to your high office I repeat what I said earlier when I used the word 'graft'. Something happened in Australia recently that strikes at the very roots of democracy for the people. If that is an infringement of the Standing Orders I will apologise. I do not believe it is. I congratulated  Mr Cranston  and the  Canberra Times  for exposing a certain graft racket that effects politics in this House. The article in the  Canberra Times  quoted a man who is known to many members of this House as saying: . . . then asked me my opinion of Sue Ryan. I said she should not be under estimated as she was a pretty smart woman who did her homework and knew what she was talking about.  Mr X  - 
I shall refer to him as  Mr X-  asked me did 1 think she was vulnerable. I asked him in what respect. 
At this stage  Mr XI  - 
I shall refer to this man as  Mr X  1 - said, 'We are talking about her attitudes on abortion, incest, homosexuality, etc. 
The article then refers to this man's name and  Mr XI  saying that it was a Catholic-sounding name and asking: 'Are you a Catholic?' The man replied yes and  Mr XI  said: 'Well that is terrific'. The article continued: 
-Thank you for your graciousness,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  in giving me the call. The honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher)  has indulged in a traditional and typical union bashing speech. He has tried to tell this Parliament that 300 or more workers at the Cootamundra meat works are so irresponsible that they have plunged their near and dear ones into household debts over a triviality- virtually nothing. This is never the case with most trade unions. I can recall some years ago being at Bowen in Queensland campaigning in connection with a State election. I wish to draw to the attention of the House a meat industry strike in relation to a man who had been employed for 25 years at the meat works at Bowen. This calmnatured man was dismissed, allegedly for smoking on the butchers' stand. He had collected his clothing and was walking out without provoking his fellow employees when the shop foreman said to him: 'What are you going home for?' The man said: 'I have been sacked.' The shop foreman asked the reason. The man said that he was being sacked for allegedly smoking on his stand. The shop foreman said: 'You know that is the rule here. Were you doing that ?' The man said: 'No, I was not. I was through the swing doors waiting on the next beast to come down on the chain system. That sometimes takes half a minute. He continued: The Assistant Manager came around and said that I should not be smoking on my stand. He said that I knew that this was against the rules and that I was dismissed'. But this man was not smoking on the stand at all. 
All the men who were employed at the abattoirsthey were not militants- came out on strike in sympathy with the dismissed man, although he did not want them to take strike action. As I have said, he had been employed at the works for 25 years. The strike extended over a period of some 3 weeks. The real issue in that strike was the issue that I am told has provoked the Cootamundra workers to strike, namely, a triviality. The management of the abattoirs at Cootamundra at the moment is waiting for a higher price which is expected for meat on the world market. It would prefer to put the meat in the chillers and provoke the men to strike when the chillers will hold no more meat. I understand that this is the true reason - 
They are agitating for higher prices. They do not want to kill any more cattle until they get the higher prices. This is the real issue. But the honourable member for Hume comes into this chamber and misleads the Parliament by suggesting that the meat workers are totally irresponsible, that they are prepared to deprive their wives and families of the necessities of life and risk incurring greater debts in their individual homes because of a triviality. I do not believe that the true issues have been put to this Parliament by the honourable member for Hume. The honourable member probably had to make this speech tonight because of some financial donation that the abattoirs gave towards his election campaign. We know of the great contribution of illicit money that has occurred and that members of the Government will resort to bribery to try to get their particular Party into power. They are prepared even to run the risk of gaol in trying to get their Party into power. 
I rose principally to plead the case for and to bring to the notice of this Parliament the awful cruelties that are being perpetrated on the Jehovah's Witnesses of the Commonwealth country of Malawi. The Jehovah's Witnesses have held an Australia-wide protest in the hope that they can bring to the notice of fair-minded Australians the persecution, murder, torture and rape of their people of Malawi. This issue has arisen because Jehovah's Witnesses do not believe in involving themselves in politics and in Malawi they have refused to take out membership cards of the National Party led by  Dr Banda,  which is the only political party of that country. As a result they have suffered for some yean murder, rape, persecution and bashing in the most cruel form. Honourable members opposite laugh about the cruelty that is being meted out to these Christian people who do not want to become involved in politics and who do not resort to the employment of political consultants or lobby in the parliaments of the various Commonwealth countries. 
They have me because I am a man of free speech and I hate murder and rape. The honourable member as a responsible former member of the Army ought to be ashamed of himself, interjecting in such a frivolous manner. Jehovah 's Witnesses have suffered persecution in Malawi, which is still a Commonwealth country. I would hope that the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock),  for whom most of us on this side of the House have considerable respect, will see fit to use his good offices with the other countries of the Commonwealth in an endeavour to remove or eliminate the persecution of Jehovah 's Witnesses in accordance with the principles of the United Nations in respect of freedom of religion. I intend to raise this matter again in this Parliament in the hope that the murder, torture, rape and barbarity that is being perpetrated on Jehovah's Witnesses in the Commonwealth country of Malawi might be terminated. 

 Mr LUSHER (Hume)-Mr  Deputy Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I address my question to the Attorney-General. Will the honourable gentleman say whether he has any suspicion of breaches of the banking foreign exchange regulations by  Mr Alexander  Barton involving tens of millions of dollars? If he has, why has he not initiated police investigations such as those he initiated against the Labor Party's advertising agency, based on his own suspicions? 
-I want to speak about nosey parkers in my brief remarks. I would have hoped and would have been happier had the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  condemned the use of nosey parkers in the financial affairs of the Australian Labor Party. I think the Australian community would have been more interested and would have applauded the honourable member for Griffith more for speaking on that subject than on the subject on which he has just spoken. I think it is unfortunate and tragic that the good name of the Commonwealth Police should be denigrated by giving them the unsavoury, dirty work of the Liberal-National Country Party coalition and having them do such distasteful work as has been bestowed upon them by a man whom I held in high respect until very recently. I refer to the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott),  who directed the Commonwealth Police to carry out the unsavoury work of the Government. What appals and disgusts me with the actions of the Government is that it has made very little effort to bring to book the company directors of Alexander Barton &amp; Son. This matter has been given little publicity. Twenty-nine companies in this group crashed and small shareholders were put into financial ruin as a result of this vulture Barton having skipped out of the country with $33m unaccounted for. Some years ago the H. G. Palmer company defrauded its shareholders of considerable millions, but the amount was insignificant compared with the amount of money that the Barton companies got away with. All the directors of H. G. Palmer were charged, but because of  Mr Barton's  self-declared allegiance to the Liberal Party and his membership of that Party very little publicity has been given by the media of this country to his criminal- I am conscious of the meaning of that word- activities.  Mr Bovill  still freely struts the streets of Sydney. I understand he has never been interviewed by the police. He was managing director of one of the Barton companies that crashed and went into liquidation and screwed the small shareholders who had invested their money in the company. The whole reason for this state of affairs is that the crooked stock exchange in this country, particularly in New South Wales, does not want to be cleaned up. Company directors, who are usually supporters of the Liberal Party, do not want the company law amended. 
I will be a bit personal with the honourable member in a minute. I will deal with him. I will stop him in his stride. I will tell on him. I know something about him. I say to him: 'You just be quiet. I will deal with you'. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The House will come to order. I suggest to the honourable member for Hunter that the Chair might stop honourable members in their stride if they answer interjections. 
I am not used to interjections in the cultural life in which I walk. 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. In view of the magistrate's decision in the Garland-Branson affair, does the Attorney-General intend - 
I direct a question to you,  Mr Speaker,  concerning the facilities in Parliament House. I ask: Is consideration being given to providing an office in Parliament House for the wife of an honourable member? If so, what is the anticipated cost and why is this accommodation being provided? 
I was impressed with some of the remarks of the honourable member for Cook  (Mr Dobie),  particularly when he said that he came to this Parliament with a social conscience. I do not know how he reconciles his social conscience with that of the Government when it contemplated and was close to removing the $40 funeral benefit paid to unfortunate pensioners burdened with the cost of the funeral of their near and dear ones. I hope that the honourable member will do all in his power to see that that funeral benefit is not removed. I support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  to the motion for the adoption of the AddressinReply to the Governor-General's Speech. The amendment deals with 3 aspects which the Opposition considers to be very important. The Governor-General's Speech in our view neglected to emphasise or to point out these 3 important matters which are of great moment to the Opposition and, I believe, millions of Australian electors. 
The first part of our amendment stresses the importance of this House in financial matters. Even today the overwhelming majority of Australians who supported the Whitlam-led Labor Government prior to 13 December are stunned and dumbfounded at the role of the people's House in financial matters being usurped by the other chamber. I believe deeply that this must cause some concern privately to many of the decent conscience-affected members, even of the Government. What happened in relation to these matters prior to 13 December has destroyed the confidence of millions of Australian electors in the people's House and the people's system of government as it is now. 
The basic power and the singular power of this House, and similarly of the House of Commons, as we know, is that it has always had total control over the appropriation of money from the Treasury or the Consolidated Revenue Fund. Now it appears that that singular power held by this House can be sidetracked and subverted by a hostile Senate which has no power to initiate money bills or to amend them. So now we must reluctantly admit that the people's House, or the House of Representatives, only has these powers relating to money Bills on the basis of good faith between the Governor-General and the Parliament. Now a precedent has been created by the Governor-General and the Senate that the Senate is able to refuse to consider the appropriation of funds by this House. That is the greatest departure from the long established precedence of this, the people's Parliament. The other chamber, which refused to consider the allocation of funds referred to in our amendment, and requested by this House, we must admit if we have an ounce of sincerity in our make-up, was an illegitimately constituted Senate. 
Let me now refer to the balance of power in the Senate. The Senate was elected by the people in 1974. We know that it consisted of 58 senators elected by the people and 2 senators who were appointed. Yet neither of the 2 senators appointed was a representative of the Party in which the vacancies occurred. The vacancies were created by the departure from the Senate of former  Senator Murphy  and by the death of the late  Senator Milliner.  Yet the antiquated Constitution does not cover that sort of serious discrepancy. Did the framers of the Constitution, I ask myself, overlook this or did they, in the Australian vernacular, leave a sliprail down in the hope that someone might take advantage of it one day. I would be inclined to think that the latter was in the minds of the framers of the Constitution. Se we find that the new senators were of a political faith different from that of those they were replacing, who were chosen by the people. How does the Governor-General, I ask myself, and the electors of Hunter ask, support or uphold a Senate so set up by manipulation? Am I not entitled to say,  Mr Speaker,  that it was an illegitimate and not a properly constituted Senate? I think I am entitled to use those strong words. 
The downfall of the Whitlam Government was formulated, I believe, by a long range conspiracy of international proportions because we were not obeying the money masters of this country and the Western world. The Premier of Queensland, who is commonly referred to as holy Joh, played a major part in the downfall of the people's elected Government. How can millions of Australians who supported the Whitlam Administration have the faith that they once held in the people's Parliament. How can the millions of new Australians who have migrated here since the war understand this sort of thing when they were told before leaving their native lands that they were going to a country where the people ruled, where the people chose the government, where the people dismissed the government, a country which was governed by a majority of the people. Many new Australians in the Newcastle region of the Hunter electorate cannot understand how one man can dismiss the popularly elected people's government; they cannot understand how it can be destroyed by one man. 
A lot of people have lost confidence in the people's democracy in this country following the events of late last year. Because of the actions of that person in not carrying out the wishes and requests of his Prime Minister and of his Ministers, as is the obligation of the Queen tinder the Westminster system, the dignified position of Governor-General is no longer as dignified as I would like to see it. Today in the House of Commons the Prime Minister of the mother country, Great Britain, from which we get our tradition, is defeated by a vote of no confidence on the floor of the Parliament. Members of the Government will have to live down the events of last year. I believe that those skilled in semantics will have some difficulty, in the years to come, in explaining to their constituents and to the people of Australia the valid reasons- if there are any- for the dismissal of the Government. Members of the Government overlook the point that one day the same thing may happen to them. 
The second aspect of the Australian Labor Party's amendment deals with the neglect of the Governor-General's Speech to overcome the serious consequences which result from the actions taken late last year. No reference is made to avoiding or averting a repetition of the events which shook to its very foundations the people's form of government in this country. One would have expected some proposal to set up an inquiry or to alter the Constitution to prevent a repetition of the sad events of last year. The GovernorGeneral's Speech failed to foreshadow any efforts to overcome any repetition of what happened. Does that mean that we are to continue with a system whereby the events of last year can be repeated. If it continues- I hope it does notone day the streets of Australia may be flowing with blood. It well could happen and it probably has happened in some other countries. But I hope that there is never a repetition of what happened last year. I hope that nothing of the nature of what I think one day could happen does happen. 
The powers of the people's House in relation to money matters has been usurped. The powers of the House of Representatives are so flimsy that the Senate can refuse to consider Appropriation Bills. The people's parliament has virtually become non-existent. An honourable senator can die and a State government of a different political faith from that of the government in the Federal Parliament has only to appoint an honourable senator of a different political faith to upset the balance in the Senate and a repeat performance of what happened in 1 975 can take place. The Governor-General's Speech made no reference to a suggestion or to a method to overcome this serious situation. Last year the Senate virtually went on strike. It refused to work. It tried to blackmail Australia's Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam.  It failed in that endeavour. It then cajoled the Governor-General into dissolving both Houses of Parliament. The GovernorGeneral chose to stay with the strong. He is astute. He was made aware that if the Whitlam Government went to the people during that period of its term of office it would be defeated. 
So now the Governor-General has more power than the people's parliament. This is a serious situation which honourable members on the Government side refuse to admit. But one day it may be the lot of such honourable members to suffer as the Whitlam Administration suffered late last year when it was endeavouring to build a better and happier Australia. Goverment speakers referred to unemployment and inflation but they know that they are problems of the Western world and that the orthodox Western world capitalist system has not been able readily to overcome them from time to time. 
The third aspect of the Labor Party's amendment deals with the transfer of funds from the low income group to those on higher incomes, the people in the better off section of society. I repeat that to contemplate removing the $40 funeral allowance for unfortunate pensioners is scraping the bottom of the barrel. We know that this allowance is for dependent pensioners who face the burden of meeting the cost of a funeral. I received a deputation of pensioners in my electorate a few weeks ago. It was led by  Mr Bill  Black,  Mr Bromage  and another outstanding, honest and trustworthy citizen in my electorate. They pointed out that the pensioners were determined to use all in their power to resist the removal of the funeral benefit. 
We know that pensioners cannot withhold their labour and that they do not have access to powerful bodies like chambers of manufactures, chambers of commerce, sectarian bodies or trade unions. However in the Hunter electorate at least the pensioners are pretty well organised because of the great training they had in the mining unions when they were employed. They cannot withhold their labour and they have no products to withhold but they are sincere in doing all they can to get the strong unions in the region to press the Government not to remove the $40 funeral benefit. Its removal would reduce the $4,000m deficit by only about $700,000-less than $lm. It must be embarrassing to many members of the Government and its supporters to be associated with a political machine that seeks to take $40 from pensioners in the most worrying time of their lives, when they have to suffer the departure of their near and dear, such as wives who have reared their children. I hope that the Government will not remove the $40 funeral allowance but will double it or at least increase it. The pensioner delegation to me at Kurri Kurri a few weeks ago pointed out that the average cost of a funeral is between $500 and $600. 
The next point I wish to mention is the fertiliser bounty which the Government reintroduced. I think it is worth while - 
-The National Country Party member for Hume says 'Hear, hear'. I think this should be properly explained to farmers. I know some very worthwhile farmers in the Hunter electorate who agree with me that only the wealthy farmers get the benefit of the superphosphate bounty. A question on this matter was asked in the South Australian Parliament and I want to quote the answer given as reported in  The Advertiser  of South Australia on 12 February this year. The newspaper report stated: 
Two S.A. farmers received $59,050 in superphosphate bounty assistance during 1973-74. 
The Minister of Agriculture  (Mr Chatterton)  gave the figure in the Legislative Council yesterday. 
He told  Mr Foster  (Lab.) that during 1973-74, 18 500 of the 25 000 farmers in S.A. used less than 12 tonnes of superphosphate and received less than $ 1 50 in assistance. 
On the old prices for cattle, that would be about the price of a good vealer. That is all that the overwhelming number of farmers in Australia receive from the superphosphate bounty. The article says: 
Ten farmers or companies who used more than 1500 tonnes received more than $18,000. 'There are much better ways of providing assistance to primary producers when assistance is required,'  Mr Chatterton  said. 
I believe that the Australian Labor Party's policy on superphosphate was true, real and sincere. I am proud to belong to a party that would not contemplate removing the $40 funeral benefit, would not cut off money for child minding centres and would not substantially cut back the moneys provided for legal aid. I know from my own experience that most of the unfortunate people- some of them are unfortunate-who go to gaol are those who could not afford or could not get legal aid. If a person is able to afford good counsel, often he is saved the embarrassment of a court conviction, as was achieved recently by a member of the Government Parties and an exsenator who followed the same political faith as that of the Government. I hope that the Government will not be so ruthless or will not continue to be so ruthless in its prosecution of the unfortunate section of the community. 
In their maiden speeches unfortunately, four or five Government supporters made bitter and unfair criticism of the Soviet Union, a friendly country, over its build-up.of forces in the Indian Ocean. Honourable members opposite all laugh, but it is a pity that some of them have not read a speech made by  Senator Eugene  McCarthy in the United States Congress. If time had permitted I would have referred to that speech. I would like to have it incorporated in  Hansard,  Mr Speaker. 
-I ask the Attorney-General: Have any investigations been taking place at his instigation against Alexander Barton and his son for breaches of the foreign exchange regulations with a view to having them extradited to Australia on such a charge? 
I desire to raise a matter tonight which I think will balance what has been said in the House in recent weeks, particularly during the Address-in-Reply debate, when approximately 6 members of the coalition Government denounced the presence of components of the Soviet navy in the Indian Ocean, which was commonly referred to by members of the Government as the build-up of Soviet submarines in the Indian Ocean. We know that the Government wholeheartedly supports the build-up of the United States leased base at Diego Garcia, which does not have the unanimous approval of the United States Senate. I fear what might eventuate in years to come as a result of the build-up. 
Getting back to the Russian presence in the Indian Ocean, I feel that members of the Government who have used this political gimmickry are endeavouring to re-introduce into this Parliament the McCarthy era of the late 1950s and early 1960s. Some Australian journalists have expressed in a fairer way the presence of the Soviet navy in the Indian Ocean than have our political opponents, including the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen).  In the  Australian Financial Review  of 29 January last John McIlwraith wrote an article headed 'Laying some myths about Russians in the Indian Ocean'. The article stated: 
There is little possibility of the Indian Ocean becoming a Russian lake' in the foreseeable future, says  Mr Geoffrey  Jukes, senior fellow in the Department of International Relations at the Australian National University. 
The article also stated: 

 Mr Jukes said that at most times there were no more than four minor units of the Soviet Navy in the Indian Ocean, which covers 28 million square miles. 
This was increased to ten or more during rare periods of tension in the area (the Bangladesh war, the 1973 Middle East conflict). 
The article also stated: 
In fact the Russians had not used the canal . . . 
That was referring to the re-opening of the Suez Canal- to move warships since it had been re-opened 6 months ago (although the U.S. and British navies had). 
The article continued: 
There was strong evidence to suggest that the Black Sea fleet did not have the numbers to contribute many ships to the Indian Ocean. 
In the  Sydney Morning Herald  of 15 February last Michael Richardson wrote an article headed Soviet Navy spends less time in Indian Ocean'. The article stated: 
The time spent by Soviet warships in the Indian Ocean dropped last year . . . 
That means 1975- to 3000 ship-days from 4600 the year before. 
The same article also stated: 
The 1974 total is artificially inflated by the inclusion of about 1000 ship-days involving Soviet mine clearing operations in Bangladesh waters. 
But even excluding the mine clearing ship-days, the decrease in recorded sailing time by the Soviet navy in the Indian Ocean last year is more that 20 per cent. 
The real reason for honourable members opposite raising this matter is to justify the United States build-up in the Indian Ocean. These scares are thrown out to condition the taxpayers of the United States and Australia into permitting the expenditure on defence in the Indian Ocean of greater sums than would ordinarily be spent. The Soviet Union is a country whose friendship we enjoy. We exchange diplomatic relations with it. I return to the article in the  Australian Financial Review.  It stated: 
The diplomatic restraints imposed on submarines . . . 
That was referring to Soviet submarinesusing the Turkish Straits would provide further problems in building up Indian Ocean strength from the Black Sea. 
The article also stated: 
In the cycle of naval power the West had scrapped many old vessels in post-war years, just as the Soviet navy was being built up with modern ships. 
I think members of the Government have been unfair in their criticism of the build-up by the Soviet navy in the Indian Ocean. It is not to their credit, because they have only to go back a few years to remember that allied soldiers were fighting shoulder to shoulder with Russians against the threat of world domination by Nazism. We know that Diego Garcia was used by the British in World War II as a fueling base and that the United States Government entered into a long term agreement as far back as 1966 to take over Diego Garcia and to build up its defence forces there. 
The multinationals have been reaping millions of dollars in profits from countries surrounding the Indian Ocean for some years. The build-up of the United States forces is in the interest of United States based multinationals which are causing so much controversy in the world today. The total capital assets of countries bordering the Indian Ocean show that Britain has great interests in the countries of southern Africa. The governments of Iran, Somalia, India, Yemen and Bangladesh have repeatedly denied that they have any Soviet bases on their soil. The Foreign Minister of India recently refuted on the floor of the Indian Parliament an allegation that the Soviet Union had any bases in India or elsewhere in the Indian Ocean. The Acting Permanent Representative of Yemen to the United Nations, in a letter to the Secretary-General in May 1974, said: 
The position of my Government, which emanates from its strict adherence to the principle of non-alignment opposes the presence of any foreign naval equipment in our area, more emphatically in my country. We categorically reject as false and unfounded the implication that the access to the port of  Hodeidah  (Yemen) is discriminatory as 'favouring only the Soviet navy'. 
The Acting Permanent Representative of Yemen to the United Nations. The point is that most of the countries bordering the Indian Ocean want it turned into a zone of peace. That was the policy of the Whitlam Administration. I believe it was the correct policy, in the interests of peace throughout the world. Even William Colby, head of the United States Central Intelligence Agency is on record as saying: 
The movement of Soviet ships in the Indian Ocean, which has been so much publicised by Western countries and which is being used as a pretense for the military expansion of the imperialist powers in the Indian Ocean, has been discounted. 
It has been discounted by no less a person than the Chief of the CIA, William Colby. He considered the movement of the Soviet ships in the Indian Ocean as 'miniscule' and 'no real threat to Western interests '. I wanted to put to rest these criticisms of the U.S.S.R. and of the presence of the Soviet navy in the Indian Ocean. 
I am on the side of truth and justice, not hooliganism and barbarity as you are always advocating. I believe that Government members should take a more realistic and truthful view of. the presence of Soviet ships in the Indian Ocean and give away this war-mongering for which they have known for many years. 
-On 25 February last, a petition was read by the  Clerk  concerning a matter of Crown privilege. This is contained on pages 251 and 252 of  Hansard.  It was lodged for presentation by the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Ellicott).  I do not think the petitioner was one of his relatives, so the AttorneyGeneral would not mind my mentioning the person's name in this House. The petition was from a man called Sankey who apparently is a part owner of a girlie bar in Sydney. At the time no one paid any attention to it. Then on 16 March the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly)  asked the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  a question about the petition. This is on pages 632 and 633 of  Hansard.  The honourable member for Bradfield seemed to be a favoured Dorothy, but then, as we in this House know, his uses are limited. It seemed extraordinary at the time that any Minister, let alone the Prime Minister, should intervene in this matter by arranging a Dorothy Dix question. 
Why this relationship between the Prime Minister and the honourable member for Bradfield? I suggest that perhaps they became friends when the honourable member for Bradfield was a minor figure in the diplomatic service and the Prime Minister was seeking an outlet for his energies abroad. Perhaps it was because the Attorney-General was not prepared, as we know, to dirty his hands carrying buckets. Whatever the reason, the Prime Minister took and answered the question and pointed out that it related to a curious action in the Queanbeyan Court of Petty Sessions. It seems that this  Mr Sankey  has brought a citizen's information against the former Prime Minister, my Leader, and 2 former Ministers of the Labor Government and a judge of the High Court, alleging conspiracy. The Prime Minister obviously knows a great deal about the action. In the  National Times  of 22 March 1976  Mr Sankey  asked the Government to help him out with his legal costs because he was poor. I suggest that he must be the only man in Sydney to own a girlie bar and remain poor; but then his tax has not yet been indexed. 
There are a number of very curious things about this action and its sponsors. There seems to be a fairly incestuous relationship between some of the principal figures engaged in prosecuting the action. When  Mr Sankey  was a young man, he got into trouble in Sydney, as I recall, by giving a false alibi to one of his unsavoury clients. He was implicated in the case of  R. v. Stuart Daren and Stuart Harold Tange  which was heard in the Court of Quarter Sessions in New South Wales in June 1971. Tange was Sankey 's client and Sankey gave detailed evidence as to the time and place of meeting with Tange. Unfortunately Tange was committing an armed robbery at the same time. The police believedand they were decent police officers- that the proceeds of the robbery found their way to Sankey, but they were harassed in their attempt to pursue the matter. Questions are now being placed on the notice paper in the New South Wales Legislative Assembly which may shed more light on the Tange affair. 
The barrister acting for  Mr Sankey  in Queanbeyan was also involved in the Tange case and apparently shared chambers with  Mr Sankey  during the latter's brief, ill-fated career as a barrister. Oddly enough, the barrister is also a friend, I regret to say, of  Mr Leo,  S.M., the magistrate hearing the conspiracy case. It seems they have worked together before. That was in the inquiry into the tragic bus disaster in Cooma in 1973. I would be the last one to criticise 
Cooma- it has worthy people of all types- but it has been alleged to me that there is not a great deal of night life there and as a result  Mr Rofe,  Sankey 's barrister, and  Mr Leo  were able to see a lot of each other. That may explain the second curious aspect- the fact that the case is being heard in Queanbeyan. 
-I should like to register the strongest protest on behalf of the electors of Hunter at the Government's attitude in removing the funeral benefit for the aged and infirm. These people at the present time -  (Government members interjecting) 
Government members may laugh at aged people in poor circumstances, but they will not do it on 27 May when those people come here from all over Australia - 
That the question be now put. 
Question put: 
That the question be now put. 

 -Mr Speaker, I have written to you today on a question of privilege involving remarks made in the Queanbeyan Court of Petty Sessions last Monday by  Mr David  Rofe, Q.C. I am ready to speak to you,  Sir, on  that point of privilege as soon as I have your indulgence. However, first I wish to draw your attention to a related matter involving the question of privilege. I ask you,  Mr Speaker:  Have you read the speech made during the adjournment debate last night by the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)?  In brief I submit that the honourable member's speech contained grave reflections against me which should have been the subject of a substantive motion on notice. Further, I submit that the honourable member imputes improper conduct to the Chair, first, by implying repeatedly that  Mr Deputy Speaker  should have ruled me out of order on the point of  sub judice  and other grounds when I spoke during a Grievance Debate on 1 April. Secondly, the honourable member reflected on the competence of the Chair with his repeated and intemperate assertions that my remarks themselves should be considered as a breach of privilege. I urge you,  Mr Speaker,  to examine the honourable member's speech to satisfy yourself as to whether his remarks constitute a gross contempt of the forms of this House.  His  remarks commence on page 1399 and continue on 1400 of yesterday 's  Hansard. 
My point of privilege relates to remarks made in the Queanbeyan Court of Petty Sessions on Monday, 5 April, by  Mr David  Rofe, Q.C.  Mr Rofe  made extensive reference to a speech by me during the Grievance Debate in this House last Thursday, 1 April.  Mr Rofe  said the honourable member's assertions were scurrilously and grossly false, disgraceful, and a misguided design to intimidate the court and the prosecution. He went on to say that the honourable member should withdraw his comments or have them considered by the Privileges Committee. These remarks are referred to on page 8 of the Canberra Times, of which I present a copy. In other words, he canvassed at some length a debate in this House. My argument is that a  prima facie  case of a breach of privilege exists against this Queen's Counsel. I rely on the following authorities: First,  Halsbury's Laws of England,  Volume 28, paragraph 899 at page 457- 

 -Mr Speaker, with your guidance and assistance I should like to give notice of my intention to move: 
That the comments made in the Queanbeyan Court of Petty Sessions on Monday 5 April by  Mr David  Rofe, Q.C, be referred to the Committee of Privileges. 

 -Mr Speaker, I would like to move: 
That the comments made in the Queanbeyan Court of Petty Sessions on Monday, 5 April, by  Mr David  Rofe, Q.C. be referred to the Committee of Privileges. 
-Well, I will give notice of it. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Did he hold official parties at the Lodge on the evenings of 9, 10, 11 and 12 March 1976 inclusive. 
If so, (a) how many guests attended on each occasion, (b) were the parties arranged by professional caterers from the Lakeside and Canberra Rex Hotels, (c) did he, during one of the parties, despatch a Commonwealth driver to the Lakeside Hotel to obtain four additional bottles of French champagne, (d) is the cost of this entertainment being borne by the taxpayer; if so, what was the cost and (e) is hospitality on this scale consistent with the Government's belttightening and cost-cutting program. 
-In the House last Thursday I referred to the curious story of  Mr Danny  Sankey,  Mr David  Rofe, Q.C. and  Mr D'Arcy  Leo, S.M.- the plaintiff, his counsel and the magistrate respectively in a vexatious political action being pursued in the Queanbeyan Court of Petty Sessions against the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam),  2 former Ministers and a Judge of the High Court. It seems that my remarks touched a sensitive nerve.  Mr Rofe,  Q.C. was quick to respond. So moved was he that he recklessly disregarded our parliamentary traditions. 

 -Mr Speaker, I move: 
That the question be now put. 
That the Minister be not further heard.  Mr SPEAKER-  The question is:  That the Minister be not further heard. 
Those of that opinion say aye, to the contrary no. I think the noes have it. Is a division required? 
Honourable members- Yes. 

 Mr Speaker, I should have thought that the object of moving these 3 motions has been to obstruct private members' business on the adjournment debate of this honourable House. 
Every Member of the House, when he comes into the Chamber shall take his seat, and shall not at any time stand in any of the passages or gangways. 
The motion was moved by the Opposition Whip whose seat at the time was being taken up by the rather large honourable member for Hunter. The motion was moved from the corridor. Does that not make the moving of the motion invalid. 
Question put- 
-My speaking time of 5 minutes will not permit me to develop fully the point that I would like to make in connection with a very important and impressive letter that I received from a constituent in this morning's mail. 
You remind me of a donkey's neck in that you are big when you are out, if you know what I mean. The constituent who wrote the letter to me is a responsible and senior executive officer of the Morisset psychiatric centre. He has expressed great concern about the unemployment figures in the Newcastle region, particularly in Morisset itself. I would like to quote to the House in the very limited time available to me some of the suggestions that he has put forward and that I hope the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  will give some sympathetic consideration to implementing. This very worthy Australian, who is an eminent psychiatrist, made certain suggestions in his letter. He wrote: 
Because of the discouragement, which could affect a young person for quite a long time, of failing to be thought valuable enough to employ I feel that the following suggestion would be well worth the investment. 
I feel that the Federal government should finance the provision of positions called 'interim assistants'. These would be created in those situations where if finance were available they would be filled in any case. An example would be at a place like a hospital, extra outside staff such as gardeners, car park attendant, hall porter, or office assistants, or at schools as assistants to teachers. The wage for these positions would be half way between the present unemployment benefit and the minimum adult wage. The positions would be created in each locality as close to the employees' home as possible so that travelling time and cost would be minimised. The number of positions created would be the difference between the present number of unemployed in that locality and the number of unemployed there when the unemployed level was 1 .5 per cent of the work force. 
The Federal government would pay the whole of this sum and the nominal employer none of it. The money for this should come from a special government loan offered to the public at a competitive interest rate. 
The person accepting a position of 'interim assistant' would not regard it as a permanent position, but would not be able to leave the job to go to seek other employment. He would instead have visits from an Employment Officer from time to time to discuss what employment he would want and be told if such was available or whether there was an 'interim assistant' position in that type of work nearby into which he could be transferred. In the meantime he would be contributing productively to total output and may move into a normal job with that employer should one arise. 
Some of the advantages of this scheme would be a feeling of usefulness in the employee. An increase in his self-esteem. More money than the unemployment benefit and the advantage that he could say he was not receiving unemployment benefits. 
I believe that that suggestion is worthy of some sympathetic consideration by the House. It would remove the stigma that has crept into society by the use of the term 'dole bludger', which is a reprehensible way of describing the people who are genuinely out of work. I hope that the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations will give some sympathetic consideration to this proposal, which has been put to me by a very dedicated Australian who is an executive officer of the Morisset mental hospital. I believe that it would be a worthwhile move by the Government and would be welcomed by the overwhelming majority of the people of Australia. 
I sincerely thank the House and I thank the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  for his great courtesy. 
The evidence  Mr Rofe  tendered in the action against  Mr Wran  for defamation was nothing less than a  Hansard  reference from the New South Wales Legislative Assembly, covering comments made by  Mr Wran  about the plaintiff. As any schoolboy lawyer would know, they were covered by parliamentary privilege. Naturally, the case was swiftly dismissed. Who were the instructing solicitors in this ill-fated litigation? None other than - 
Debate interrupted. 
I was saying that  Mr Coleman's  article called the group 'off beat' and that it went on to justify that tag with details of its objectives, which were described variously as neo-fascist, war-mongering and ratbag. I was fascinated to discover that the New Guinea Party's  president  and its candidate for the seat of West Sydney in the 1963 election is now a magistrate in the Australian Capital Territory. This magistrate, too, was recently involved in an interesting case- one in which he gave a most unusual ruling concerning the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland).  If the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  wants some background on the magistrate he should consult his electoral neighbour, the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Birney),  who, it turns out, was the New Guinea Party's vice  president.  What we are witnessing in the Queanbeyan Court are 2 scheming and unprincipled criminal lawyers who are pursuing not for the first time a case which has as its sole aim the vilification of leading Australian Labor Party politicians. They are being aided, abetted and - 
-On Thursday, 8 April, the last day of the last period of sittings, I rose during the debate on the adjournment to discuss a matter of grave concern to all parliamentarians. You will recall,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that I was thwarted by a series of points of order designed deliberately to obstruct me. I must excuse from that charge the Minister sitting at the table, the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard),  who, to his credit, was prepared to do the right thing and give me a fair hearing. Unfortunately he was trampled by his own backbench and finally had to be rescued from his embarrassment by his senior and more hardened colleague, the Minister for Primary 
Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  It was an extraordinary situation. As the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  observed at that time, it was the first time in his very considerable experience that a member of the front bench had said something contrary to the wishes of honourable members behind him. In any case, with your leave,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I shall now say what I was prevented from saying then. 
You will recall that on Thursday, 1 April, I referred in the House to the curious story of Danny Sankey and  Mr David  Rofe, Q.C., the plaintiff and his counsel respectively, in a vexatious political action being pursued in the Queanbeyan court of petty sessions against the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam),  2 former Ministers and a judge of the High Court. It seems that my remarks touched a sensitive nerve.  Mr Rofe,  Q.C., was quick to respond. So moved was he that he recklessly disregarded our parliamentary traditions and touched the boundaries of contempt of Parliament. Perhaps he should have considered taking libel action against me instead. 
-I do not intend to debate that issue. I will keep away from it. I doubt that the Government will ever bring that matter on for debate, but I will avoid canvassing or debating that issue. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, when the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  allowed me an extension of time, you agreed to allow me to proceed. After I had spoken about 20 or 30 words not touching on the case at Queanbeyan, I was asked to resume my seat. I was referring to the nefarious action of  Mr Rofe  against  Mr Wran  for defamation. The case for the plaintiff depends wholly and solely upon the transcript of proceedings in the New South Wales Parliament. It was after I said that that you,  Sir, ruled  me out of order. I fail to understand how I was transgressing the Standing Orders. I was not referring to the case in the Queanbeyan Court. I had used words appertaining to the action in relation to the New South Wales Parliament when you ruled me out of order. With respect, you seemed to have made up your mind that I should not be allowed to proceed in this free institution- the people's free institution. Men of this country have lost their lives in 2 world wars fighting for freedom of speech which I have been denied here today. I would like you to explain to me what caused you to prevent me proceeding when I was not making any reference to the proceedings in the Queanbeyan Court. I would be grateful for your explanation why you stopped me speaking. 
-Before my time expired in the grievance debate today I was pointing out to the Parliament the ill-fated action taken by  Mr Rofe,  Q.C. against  Mr Wran,  the Leader of the Opposition in the State Parliament, for defamation. It was an unsuccessful action because  Mr Rofe  based his evidence wholly and solely on the New South Wales Par.liamentary Hansard. He was not aware, apparently, of parliamentary privilege.  His  instructing solicitors were none other than Norbett Lipton and Sankey, solicitors attorneys at law, and specialists in the litigious harassment of Labor parliamentarians.  Mr John  Giles Bourke, incidentally, was a building, real estate and land shark who duped hundreds of unsuspecting home seekers. This was the man who  Mr Wran  exposed in the New South Wales Parliament. He was charged on 9 counts of forgery and uttering valueless certificates for properties in Balmain, Glebe and Birchgrove.  Mr Rofe's  rough record is not limited to the case I have mentioned. In December 1974 the New South Wales Court of Appeal was critical of his behaviour as counsel for the respondent in the appeal case of Steele v. Mirror Newspapers. More surprising than  Mr Rofe's  response to my speech were those of the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Birney)  and the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  on Tuesday night, 30 March. The honourable member for Phillip described my remarks in this chamber as an unjust, miserable, false and vitriolic attack on a colleague of his at the New South Wales Bar. I repeat the accusations and throw them back in his own face.  His  defence of the man Sankey and his accusations against me were equally as unjust, miserable, false and vitriolic. 
I alleged in my speech on 1 April that Danny Sankey entered the witness box at the trial of Steward Harold Tange in the Sydney Criminal Court before Judge Hicks on 29 June 1971. Sankey gave sworn evidence that the accused Tange was in his solicitor's office in Pitt Street, Sydney, about an hour after a bank hold-up at Mascot by 2 masked robbers on 25 August 1970 at about 1.50 p.m. The honourable member for Phillip suggested that this was in no sense alibi evidence. I suggest to the contrary. I ask you,  Mr Speaker  Would not any person of moderate common sense conclude that evidence to this effect given by  Mr Sankey  was deliberately designed to invite the court to infer that the accused Tange, who casually dropped in on his solicitor at 2.50 p.m., was not likely to have been committing a robbery an hour earlier at the other end of the city of Sydney?  Mr Sankey  lent himself to this attempted deception. 
The honourable member for Phillip also explained that all but $132 of the $9,411, proceeds of the Mascot robbery, was recovered. He made this point to make light of police suspicions that  Mr Sankey  was being paid from the proceeds of Tange 's robberies. What the honourable member for Phillip neglected to mention was that at the time of the Mascot felony Tange was already on bail on 4 other armed hold-up charges, one of which involved the Clovelly branch of the Bank of New South Wales, when thousands of dollars were stolen and only $50 recovered. What happened to the proceeds of those robberies? In connection with the Clovelly bank robbery Tange was ultimately sentenced to 10 years penal servitude.  (Honourable members interjecting)- 
I notice that the honourable member for Phillip made no mention of  Mr Sankey  's nightclub interests. He did not confirm, as I can, that  Mr Sankey  has a substantial share in the Caprice Restaurant at Rose Bay, where, for a price, he provides wealthy clientele not only with expensive fare but also with expensive telephone numbers. 
I said that I was surprised by the honourable member's intervention on behalf of his legal brethren. I was surprised, that is, until I happened by chance to be reading in the  Bulletin  of 12 May 1962 an article by  Mr Peter  Coleman, who is now the Chief Secretary in New South 
Wales. It was about a strange right wing organisation known first as the United Australia Movement and then as the New Guinea Party, which fielded candidates in the Federal election in 1963.  Mr Coleman's  article called the group 'off beat' and went on to justify that tag with details of its objectives, which were described variously as neo-fascist, war-mongering and ratbag. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Did the Treasurer travel by VIP aircraft between Melbourne and Canberra on 29 March 1976. 
2) If so, who else travelled on the flight with him. 
At what time did the aircraft leave Melbourne and at what time did it arrive in Canberra. 
At what times were commercial flights covering the same journey available on that day. 
I address my question to the Minister for Transport. Is it a fact that the Commonwealth Department of Transport is cooperating and working with the New South Wales Government with a view to establishing a second major airport in the metropolis of Sydney? Is it a fact that 4 sites are under consideration, namely, the Holsworthy Army area east of Glenfield and Ingleburn; an area west of Liverpool in the Rossmore-Borengeli area; the Rouse Hill region east of Riverstone; and Marsden Park, west of Riverstone? Is it a fact that the site east of Glenfield and Ingleburn is on the shortlist? 
-The 2 Bills before the House are Appropriation Bill (No. 3) 1975-76, which is intended to appropriate through the Treasury $344m, and Appropriation Bill (No. 4) 1975-76 which provides for the expenditure from Consolidated Revenue of $16 1.7m. The Bills provide for a total expenditure of approximately $505m. A week or so ago the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  referred in his second reading speeches on the Bills to a Treasury information paper and said something about the statement of savings expected in the annual appropriation. He suggested that under the 2 Appropriation Bills there would be savings of some $478.2m. I do not know how members of the public understand that. The Treasurer said that savings on both Bills will exceed the original amount of $344m which the Appropriation Bills are to appropriate- an increase, he says, of $28m. Many people would regard this as a lot of political mumbo-jumbo and wonder why the Treasurer cannot spell it out more clearly. We can be assured, though, that neither of these Bills will be held up in this House or in the Senate. 
During the recent election campaign the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  frequently referred to the economy as being on its knees. He and other Government members have urged the community to spend more and to invest more in private ventures. When in power the Labor 
Government tried to clean up the crook stock exchanges and get a uniform company law. A member of the previous Government moved for the establishment of the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange. This Committee revealed some shocking scandals regarding the nefarious practices of the stock exchanges and companies in Australia. The small investor has very little or no confidence in the stock exchanges in Australia. The Barton affair, the affairs of the Cambridge Credit Corporation Ltd and H. G. Palmer Ltd and the Latec scandals, involving top company directors who usually give patronage to the Liberal Party philosophy, are some of the reasons why the personal savings bank accounts are soaring and people will not invest. I want to say something more about the Rae report, the report of the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange. It made reference to Patrick Partners and Ralph W. King and Yuill 
The honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume)  was supposed to be a director. These 2 stock exchange giants were strongly condemned in the report for their practices. Time will not permit me to deal fully with the Rae report. I shall deal with a couple of scandals that surfaced during the Committee's investigations. Senior members of the 2 firms were members of the Stock Exchange. This is what the Labor Party was endeavouring to legislate upon to have corrected, but the legislation was held up in the Senate when we were in power. We legislated in this House to prevent the directors of any companies registered on the Stock Exchange from becoming members of that Exchange. 
At the time of the debate on that legislation I remember that the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  with other Government supporters, condemned this provision of the legislation saying that  Sir so-and-so,  a man of impeccable character, would have to resign from the Stock Exchange because he is a director of so-and-so. The Labor Party was not concerned about the individual; we thought it was wrong for people to be members of the Stock Exchange and also company directors because when the Stock Exchange Committee is called upon to punish company directors or companies for nefarious practices the members virtually sit in judgment upon themselves. I cannot imagine any honourable member believing sincerely that he should sit on a jury in his own trial. That is virtually what the practice meant. The present 
Government rejected this legislation introduced by the Whitlam administration. 
In evidence before the Rae Committee the  Chairman  of the Stock Exchange,  Mr J.  H. Cooper, as recorded in Volume 2 of the Rae Committee report, admitted that it is possible for members of the Committee of the Stock Exchange to sit in judgment of themselves although the rule requires that they do not exercise a vote on such matters. So, as I see it, the Committee of the Stock Exchange can sit in judgment and handle charges levelled against its members. More publicity should be given to this. I shall try to develop the argument about why more publicity was not given to this by the Australian media. As I said, members of the Stock Exchange Committee can sit in judgment on charges made by the Senate Committee against the 2 firms mentioned. Patrick Partners and King and Yuill were the two in question. Can the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  tell me or this Parliament whether this is not a fact? This is why the small investor will not risk his money, because the Liberals cannot afford to clean up the Stock Exchange and pass a uniform company law. 
I regret that the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  in his speech a little while ago implied that the Whitlam administration was trying to centralise everything and to run the whole of the country from Canberra, denying to the States any power at all. A uniform company law is urgently needed in Australia. Grave charges are made in the Rae Committee report.  Senator Rae  has shown commendable honesty in this regard. I believe, as one newspaper stated, that  Senator Rae's  forthrightness and honesty as  Chairman  of this investigating committee has militated against him getting into the Cabinet in the Fraser Government because big business has warned the Prime Minister and told him that big business does not want  Senator Rae  because he was so forthright and honest in his searching out of the nefarious practices of some of the big companies when he was  Chairman  of the Rae Committee. Let me deal further with Patrick Partners and its association with a man called  Major Douglas. 
-I am sorry. The honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan),  a former Army officer, would undoubtedly know  Major Douglas.  He may be a personal friend, hence the name shocked the honourable member for Riverina. But if he was a personal friend of the honourable member for Riverina, I have serious doubts whether the honourable member will claim him as a friend when I finish dealing with him in the next few minutes. He will not want to know him.  Major Douglas,  or Brian Gerard Douglas, was once employed with the Melbourne  Age.  He worked, not in the physical sense, under the financial editor,  Mr F.  N. Course, who later became Patrick Partners' representative in Melbourne. In 1969  Major Douglas  formed Australian Investment Counsellors with a paid-up capital of $2. Shortly after he was given a loan of $5,000 by Patrick Partners and of this amount $4,990 was entered in the name of Travinto Nominees, a Patrick Partners subsidiary firm, formed by the solicitors Dawson Waldron of Martin Place, Sydney. The remaining $10 was credited as snares in Australian Investment Counsellors in the name of Patrick Partners. This made Patrick Partners the largest shareholder in Australian Investment Counsellors. 
The firm published a stock market tipping sheet called  Investograph.  The firm also published another tipping sheet known as  Investors Guide.  In evidence before the Senate Committee  Major Douglas  admitted that most of the tips contained in his sheets were obtained by him in a daily telephone call to Patrick Partners. He has been known to say that he was a personal friend of the now honourable member for Macarthur. 

 - Mr Baume who we know was a director of Patrick Partners. These tipping sheets, put out by Douglas on information from Patrick Partners, consistently recommended stock being pushed and promoted by Patrick Partners and were advertised by the  Australian Financial Review  as being based on inside information. In other words, it was straight from the horse's mouth. 
There is no chance in the world of that. Stockbrokers subscribed to these sheets and used the tips to pass information on to their clients, thus achieving Patrick Partners' objective of bulling- if I may use the vernacular- the market. People have lost confidence in investment in free enterprise which Government supporters so passionately push and advocate. That is why savings bank deposits are soaring and why the economy is stagnant. Small investors have lost confidence. Hawk Liberal financiers control crook companies and the stock exchanges. One of 

 Major Douglas's tipping sheets was called  Hawklet.  These sheets depicted information coming from under the little bird Nellie's hat. Patricks were the little bird used by  Major Douglas.  Words are not strong enough to denigrate these spivs, urgers and arch confidence men who prey on innocent members of society, many trying to augment their pensions or poor superannuation benefits which have been so affected by inflation. If the evil actions of these men were connected with horse racing they would be warned off the course for life. With Patrick Partners as underwriters  Major Douglas  then proceeded to float a $2m mining company called Select Mining Holdings Limited. He knows as much about mining as my posterior knows about snipe shooting. He encouraged people to invest in mining. He has never been down a mine and would not know what a mine was. 
He must have been a mate of the honourable member for Riverina who seems to be defending him strongly.  Major Douglas  appointed Patricks to manage the undertaking for him after he formed this mining venture. He admitted before the Senate Committee that he knew nothing about mining. It could have been a Chinese gambling game as far as he was concerned. Select Mining Holdings Limited reciprocated for his assistance by placing $1.5m on deposit with Patrick Partners and purchased another 100 000 shares in Castlereagh Securities of which  Mr B.  R. Dowling, senior partner of Patrick Partners and a friend of the honourable member for Macarthur, was managing director. 
The next venture by  Major Douglas  was a stock tipping program on television. It was called  The Money Show.  In conjunction with Bryan Frith, whom he engaged as a part time journalist for  Investograph,  he conducted a weekly mining tipping column in the  Australian  newspaper under the title of  The Fossicker. The Money Show  invited viewers to participate in its tips on recommendations of  Investograph  and Patricks. The Senate Select Committee found that the Australian Investment Counsellors spread tips and rumours without checking their authenticity. I repeat that I believe that  Senator Rae,  an honest Liberal, was the victim of his forthrightness and honesty in bringing out the evidence he did during this Committee's research at the time of the Whitlam Administration. 
That is true and well known. I understand that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  wanted  Senator Rae  as a Minister but big business said: 'No. You will obey or you will leave the Prime Ministership', and the Prime Minister had to salute. I propose now to deal with the methods employed by another leading stockbroking firm, Ralph W. King and Yuill. King and Yuill were acting on behalf of Vam Limited which had assets estimated at $35m. In 1969 King and Yuill were given a private issue of 100 000 Vam shares to be sold on the open market. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
In continuing my submissions to this Parliament on the Appropriation Bills I propose to deal now with the methods employed by another leading stockbroking firm- W. Ralph King and Yuill. King and Yuill was acting on behalf of Vam Ltd, which had assets estimated at being worth $35m. In 1969, King and Yuill was given a private issue of 100 000 Vam shares to be sold on the open market to raise capital for Vam. There was no registration of a prospectus with a stock exchange and no general meeting of the company to approve the increase in the issued capital; so the capital was watered without the consent of the shareholders. King and Yuill did not disclose on the contract notes that it was acting as principal in the sale; so the client was justified in believing that he was dealing with it as agent and that the shares were part of the original issue. King and Yuill paid the proceeds of the sale less brokerage and stamp duty to Vam- an amount of $676,000. Commenting on this and similar operations the Senate Committee reported: 
Judging from the evidence we have seen markets have been distorted and investors misled as a result of brokers not disclosing their financial interest in substantial blocks of shares taken up in new issues and systematically sold on the market. 
The Rae Committee's report stated that 6 financial writers were given shares at par for boosting in their newspapers shares floated by Patrick Partners. Those writers sold their shares and made thousands of dollars. One of those financial writers is now a member of this House. He is the honourable member for Macarthur. When the directors of Patrick Partners were proceeded against under the bankruptcy laws of New South Wales the honourable member for Macarthur was excluded from those proceedings. He was able to buy himself out of bankruptcy. If he had been convicted of bankruptcy, under the Electoral Act he would have lost his seat in this Parliament. The same honourable member is a director of Tancred Brothers, a Brisbane meat firm which paid money to  Mr Todd,  a New York banker, for and on behalf of  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  to investigate what is known as the loans affair. It is no wonder he is known in his electorate as 'Hallelujah'. The last issue of the  Nation Review  states at page 75 1: - For instance, Todd was paid his advance by the Brisbane meat firm Tancred Brothers, of which the Liberal member for Macarthur, Michael . Baume, is a director. BjelkePetersen 's right-hand man, Wiley Fancher (Fancher the rancher), who with Todd and Queensland Agent-General Wally Rae carried out the inquiry, is a buddy of Doug Anthony's. Other names in the documents- Gould, Bracey, Hamilton- had gone to ground. Phones had been disconnected, companies liquidated, whereabouts unknown.  Mr Bracey  emerged to appear in court in Sydney on Thursday on. a charge of conspiracy to defraud. The word was that Bracey 's connections were indeed interesting, including the former N.S.W. Attorney-General, John Maddison, and a certain Sydney solicitor - 
I was criticised for mentioning his name in this Parliament a few weeks ago- named Sankey who is currently pursuing Whitlam, Connor and Murphy through the Queanbeyan courts on a conspiracy charge. The name of a certain sick senator has also been mentioned as an associate of Bracey 's. 
Those are the real reasons why there is redundancy in the economy today. The small investor will not invest in the Sydney Stock Exchange, knowing that it is run by a bunch of crooks and that has been allowed because the Liberal Party would not agree to the amendments to the Companies Act which the Whitlam Government tried to make but which were obstructed in the Senate. During our administration we tried to prevent company directors from being members of the Stock Exchange. The Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  is sitting at the table. He is a man who is regarded with a great deal of respect by all honourable members on this side of the House and who has not yet allowed himself to be fully contaminated by the skullduggery of Liberal Party politics. I hope that one day he will be able to influence his party to amend the Companies Act in such a way as to encourage the small investor to invest in the stock market and thereby stimulate the economy in such a way that many decent Australians will be able to find successful and lucrative employment. 
I refer to the allegations against me tonight by the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil).  I hardly thought that his accusations were worthy of reply. He suggested that I had received information from a solicitor named Landa.  Mr Speaker,  I tell this House, I tell the Australian people, I do not know  Mr Landa,  I have never spoken to  Mr Landa  in my life personally or on the telephone and I would not know him if he walked into this Parliament now. 
He probably knows you too. The honourable member for St George also said that I made a wrong accusation, that I said that the case was dismissed. He said that the case was withdrawn. I suggest that he is trying to escape a suggestion of mine that the case was thrown out. If he wants me to alter my words as to whether the case was dismissed or withdrawn I will say that the case was thrown out. It was a weak attempt by a weak member, a weak barrister who is showing his allegiance to his legal fraternity in a way that some legal men usually do. He is doing this in anticipation because he is a oncer in this Parliament. He will probably have to depend on other members of the legal profession to throw him a brief occasionally to get a livelihood. 
-He reflected on me. I withdraw,  Mr Speaker,  out of courtesy to you and the House. 
-I withdraw,  Mr Speaker.  But the honourable member made allegations against me of entering into a conspiracy which you did not ask him to withdraw. I ask him to withdraw his remarks, in connection with the statements I made in your presence,  Mr Speaker,  some weeks ago, that I was informed apparently by a solicitor named Landa. I ask turn to withdraw the remarks. I do not know  Mr Landa  and have never spoken to him in my life. I ask that he withdraw those remarks that he used in his speech earlier tonight before you,  Mr Speaker.  I believe that your impartiality will see, as you insisted that I withdraw my remarks, that he withdraw those remarks against me. Otherwise, I did not consider his remarks tonight worthy of any reply. 

 Mr NEIL (St George)-Mr  Speaker,  the honourable member for Hunter stated that I had said that the case was dismissed. I cannot remember the exact words. If I did say that, what I should have said was that the proceedings were dismissed by consent. The fact is that the proceedings were dismissed by consent, which is entirely different from being thrown out. As far as the other matter is concerned, reflections relating to something to do with briefs, all I would refer - 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Is it a fart that the honourable member for Macarthur has been commissioned by the Prime Minister to assist in the urgent preparation of a pamphlet to promote the new Medibank arrangements? Is the Department of Health objecting to the hasty preparation of the pamphlet because it does not want to be held to the figures it produced for the statement made by the Minister for Health last Thursday? Is the honourable member for Macarthur to be associated with yet another faulty prospectus? 
My question, directed to the Minister for Defence, has a bit of a kick in it. The Minister will recall his answer to my question on Tuesday of last week which showed that the Treasurer, accompanied by 5 members of his personal staff, arrived by VIP aircraft from Melbourne in Canberra on 29 March at 1.05 p.m. when there was a commercial flight arriving at 1.10 p.m., 5 minutes later. 
I said that my question had a kick in it. I ask the Minister why the Treasurer was not required to abide by the rule that VIP aircraft will not normally be provided to Ministers when commercial flights are available at or near the same time. Will he in future eliminate such waste, duplication and extravagance? 
It was very noticeable that the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly)  did not endeavour in any way to defend his Government's action in reducing Medibank to a shell. He kept wide of it. In my view he made some untrue statements to the House. He spoke of land prices rising to an all time high under the Labor Government. Any honourable member, in all decency, would well know that land prices were soaring under the previous Tory Government prior to the Whitlam Government coming to power. It was the Labor Government which stabilised land prices and prevented them from soaring by suppressing and tightening up credit for buying land. The honourable member said also that inflation had risen to 17 per cent. Inflation was a world-wide problem for Western world countries. I should repeat that Britain, America, Japan, West Germany and Canada all had the problems which any Australian Government would have faced, irrespective of its political colour. They faced world wide inflation. The honourable member for Bradfield used to make some good speeches when he came into the Parliament. Usually the speeches of an honourable member improve but his are deteriorating as the years go by. Whether he is starting to interest himself in the stock exchanges or Patrick and Partners I do not know, but obviously he has diverse interests and is not applying the full limit of his mental capacity to his speeches as he did when he first came to the Parliament. 
It is not due to any assistance from the honourable member. In the limited time available to me tonight I want to follow the example set by the honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry)  who pointed out the redundancies in the building industry in Canberra and the grievous shortage of homes. In the last week 3 carpenters have approached me and asked me when the new power station is going to be built in the Hunter electorate at Eraring. They hope to get employment there. I would be most anxious to aid them to get employment if possible. However this is not possible due to the slashing of funds for education and so many other things, as was pointed out so effectively by the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson). 
I want to refer to some of the problems in my electorate which were brought to my notice very forcibly when the delegation of educationists and teachers visited Canberra a week or so ago. I have here a document which points out that the roofs of the Toronto West Public School are leaking, that the classrooms are far too small and that landscaping is required to make the playground attractive for children so that they can get mental refreshment and enthusiasm to go to school and to study. There is a large flat area in the school grounds at Toronto West that needs filling in order to make it suitable for the children to use for healthy sporting activities. It is pointed out that the staff toilet facilities should be upgraded to meet the council's health standards. The toilet facilities at this public school are below the health standards required by the local council. Teachers have to wash their hands at a drinking trough or in a kitchen sink. It is pointed out that a covered area for assemblies would help mould school discipline and settle children down. There should be a covered area where students can be addressed without having to stand in the open unprotected from the sun and the rain. There should be more teaching aids for individual, class and group teaching, especially high interest and low vocabulary type readers. There should be a weather shed in which children can take their lunch so that they do not have to go into the classrooms during wet weather. The school urgently needs a properly equipped library and a separate craft room as having these 2 activities in the one room is not conducive to good library tone. They are some of the problems at the Toronto West Public School. 
The Wallsend High School-Wallsend is an old coal mining centre- is urgently in need of improvements but its grant has been cut from $9,700 to $300. This represents 12c per pupil per term. The primary and infants schools at Wallsend are to receive nothing. The school authorities point out that it is impossible for the high school to function efficiently on this amount of money. The authorities there wrote to me as follows: 
The following represents some of the pressing needs of our schools. Some buildings mentioned below have been promised for the future but others have been promised in years past and have not yet been started. 
There is little likelihood of these works being started due to the Fraser Government's economic policies and its slashing of finance for education. The Fraser Government would sooner look after the squatocracy and improve the lot of some people who are not in need by giving handouts such as the fertiliser bounty. The Wallsend High School authorities I mentioned earlier stated: 
Finance in the way of grants is desperately needed for the following: 
Hardware. 
Software. 
Money for Special Education Programs, especially in the areas of remedial mathematics and English. 
Increased moneys for library and text books. 
Money for essential school maintenance- repairs and preparation of sporting fields. 
Money for new buildings and alterations to existing buildings. 
The writer then goes on to refer specifically to Wallsend High School and says that alterations to A block are urgently needed and were promised some years ago. The work was never started. Increased facilities are required in the physical education change rooms. Adequate library facilities and increased staff accommodation are also required. I would give these things higher priority than the honourable member for Moreton, the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen),  gives to defence. 
The Minmi Primary School has an inadequate library and no canteen. The Wallsend South Public School requires extra classroom accommodation for next year and grants to equip the new library. The Wallsend Primary School is also urgently in need of increased staff accommodation, a new administration block and a wire fence to protect neighbouring houses adjoining the playing area. The Jubilee Road Primary School at Wallsend urgently needs a new library, increased staff accommodation, a work preparation room for the teachers aide and security lighting. At the Plattsburg Primary School the lighting is inadequate in the classrooms and it urgently needs money to equip the library and improve the playground which has to be filled in and levelled so that pupils can indulge in healthy recreation. 
I have a personal interest in the Toronto High School because my 3 children were educated there. It urgently needs finance and it has little hope of getting it now that the Fraser Administration is in power. The money is needed to build an assembly hall. It is one of the few high schools in the region which does not have an assembly hall and on important days the pupils have to be addressed out in the open. If it rains the children have to scatter for shelter, and in the sun sometimes some of the pupils collapse because of the heat. The gymnastics area is inadequate. At present gymnastics lessons are taken in a concrete playground where it is unsafe and where children could suffer serious injury. The drama room at present is inadequate. The only stage area in the school is used as a storage space. This is at Toronto High School. The provision of storage space for large equipment is inadequate. Parallel bars are stored in the change room. 
The Toronto High School is urgently in need of proper library facilities. At present the use of the library is limited due to the size of rooms being used. Two converted classrooms do not make for suitable library facilities for a school of over 1000 students. Only one class at a time can use the library effectively. There are no quiet work areas in the library. There are no facilities for the use of audio-visual resources. Senior study facilities are located in the library but are inadequate for the number of students needing to use them. Senior students are disturbed by other students looking for information. Up to 3 science classes are taken in ordinary classrooms and the provision for science teaching is inadequate. These are some of the problems affecting the schools in my area. I tell the people at these schools that I fear there is little chance of these problems being overcome in the light of the cutback in the economy by the Fraser Administration which gives a high priority to subsidising fertiliser costs and introducing the school cadet system. In my personal view the latter is virtually warmongering, rattling the sabre again. The Government has increased defence expenditure to an all-time high, which the overwhelming majority of my constituents believe should not have that high priority at this time when Australia is not threatened by any enemy and is not likely to be involved in war for many years. 
The Government has virtually reduced  Medibank to a shell, after promising the Australian people that it would not interfere with it in any way. The honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass),  the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  and the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  I believe have effectively pointed out the Government's betrayal of the Australian people. During the election campaign the Government, no doubt for the purpose of a financial handout, promised the private insurance institutions that once it got into power it would look after their interests. I give the Government credit, if I can, in that regard. It has honoured its promise to the private financial institutions which have made exorbitant profits out of people's health care. Toryism has not differed much in principle down through the centuries. In conclusion, I should like to read a passage from an interesting book I picked out of the Library this afternoon. It is written by Huberman and Sweezy and is on the anatomy of a revolution. It quotes the remarks of Major-General Smedley D. Butler, who was in a position to know and who leaves no doubt on this score. He said: 
I spent 33 years and 4 months in active service as a member of our country's most agile military force- the Marine Corps. I served in all commissioned ranks from a second lieutenant to major-general and during that period I spent most of my time being a high-class muscle man for Big Business, for Wall Street and for the bankers. In short, I was a racketeer for capitalism . . . 
Thus I helped make Mexico and especially Tampico safe for American oil interests in 1914. 1 helped make Haiti and Cuba a decent place for the National City Bank boys to collect revenues in ... I helped purify Nicaragua for the international banking house of Brown Brothers in 1909-1912. I brought light to the Dominican Republic for American sugar interests in 1916. 1 helped make Honduras 'right' for American fruit companies in 1903. In China in 1927 I helped see to it that Standard Oil went its way unmolested. 
During those years I had, as the boys in the back room would say, a swell racket. I was rewarded with honours, medals, promotion. Looking back on it, I feel I might have given Al Capone a few hints. The best  he  could do was to operate his racket in 3 city districts. We Marines operated on 3  continents. 
That is the political philosophy that the Tories opposite uphold today. They are looking after big business instead of the under-privileged section of Australian society. But they will not last forever. At the next election they will be tipped out of power, disgraced and dishonoured as people who supported wealth and privilege and not the true aspect of Australian thinking and idealism. 
-The Prime Minister will recall that on 27 May in this House he stated that the legal advisings he had received from the Attorney-General and Solicitor-General were so clear and firm that the invalidity of the hospitals agreements with the States was beyond question. Will the Prime Minister again assert that the invalidity of the hospitals agreements with States is beyond question, despite the advising received by  Mr Hamer? 
-An old Labor politician told me when I first became a member of this place that you never praise your political opponents, but I have departed from that advice on several occasions and I depart from it again today. I want to congratulate the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Macphee)  on his expression of interest on behalf of back benchers in this grievance debate today. I want to congratulate the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  on his deep interest - 
I have congratulated him before both inside and outside the Parliament and also personally, but never when he has gone on with communist can-kicking, which I am going to deal with shortly. I congratulate the honourable member for Mackellar on his efforts to abolish the means test. He fought passionately and fervently in his own Party to achieve this when it was in office prior to the Whitlam Administration taking over. He was a strong and sincere advocate of the abolition of the means test. Unfortunately, his proposal to abolish it was not implemented during the term of office of his party. The Labor Party under the Whitlam leadership did take positive steps. The honourable member for Mackellar would concede that the means test has been abolished on age pensions for all people over 69 years of age. Had we remained in office I believe we would have carried out the wishes of the honourable member for Mackellar and we would have abolished the means test by the end of 1975 or by early this year for all persons over 65 years of age. It is true as the honourable member for Mackellar says that the means test is very embarrassing to people, it is confusing to people and it makes decent people tell untruths to the Department of Social Security, which results in investigations and increases the overhead costs of administering the means test. I hope that the honourable member for Mackellar will be able to persuade his Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  to abolish the means test for all people over 65 years, for which he has fought for many years. I hope he achieves this in this year's Budget. 
I feel somewhat grieved at what I personally consider to be the unfair criticism of one of the world's greatest powers and a friendly nation to Australia, a nation with which we exchange diplomatic relations. I refer to the Soviet Union. I agree entirely with the brilliant speech of my Leader on 1 June 1976 in his reply to the ministerial statement on foreign affairs by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  In his very worthy and intellectual remarks, as recorded at page 2745 of  Hansard,  the Leader of the Opposition said: 
This phobia about Russian ships is presumably the justification for defence expenditure of $ 12,000m over the next 5 years- 
He went on to say: 
It is . . . resurgence of cold-war rhetoric and Communist can-kicking typified by the speech this evening. 
There have already been 2 speakers- I understand there is to be another one- from the Government benches who have placed emphasis on the plight of the rural industry. Every member of this House is saddened by the plight of the rural industry. I want to interlock the plight of the rural industry with the Communist cankicking. I shall cite some figures of exports from Australia to the Soviet Union in recent years and the exports to Australia from the Soviet Unionthe country that was unjustifiably kicked about in the statement made to the Parliament by the Prime Minister. In 1970-71 Australia exported to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics $62.3m worth of goods and imported from the U.S.S.R. in the same year $2.2m worth of goods- a balance of trade in our favour of $60. lm. In 1971-72 the Soviet Union imported from Australia $82.8m worth of goods and we imported from the Soviet Union $1.8m worth of goods- a balance in our favour of $81m. I am pleased to see a prominent Newcastle businessman in the Parliament today. Although he is learned in politics he is somewhat astonished as I reveal the figures. In 1972-73 Australia exported to the Soviet Union $ 123.6m worth of goods and imported from the Soviet Union $2.9m worth of goods- a balance of trade in Australia's favour of $ 120.7m. In 1973-74 Australia sold or exported to the Soviet Union $ 154.2m worth of goods and imported from the Soviet Union $5.8m worth of goods- a balance of trade in our favour of $148.4m. In 1974-75 $243m worth of Australian goods were exported to the Soviet Union and we imported from the Soviet Union $6.3 m worth of goods- a balance of trade in our favour of $236.7m. 
I ask the Parliament and I ask honourable members: Is it fair to start this warmongering and unfair criticisms of the Soviet Union because she has put naval vessels in the international waters of the Indian Ocean? As I said earlier, we all agree that rural industry is in a tragic plight. I do not know how members of the National Country Party can join in this criticism. They must have felt embasrrassed to listen to the speech of the Prime Minister censuring the Soviet Union and its role in world affairs today. If the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King)  listens he may learn something. Only a few months ago the rural people of Australia and the beef producers who are in a tragic plight sold 40 000 tons of Australian frozen beef to the Soviet Union. 
This is how grateful honourable members opposite are. The Soviet Union paid for it but not at the price they wanted for it. It is better to give it away than to shoot the cattle, which farmers are doing in Victoria today. 
-They were glad to get the trade, under the former Minister for Overseas Trade as he reminds the House. The farmers were glad to get this purchase of 40 000 tonnes of beef by the Soviet Union. They were disappointed when they did not get a follow-up order from the Soviet Union. These are facts which no honourable member can properly deny. It sincerely hurts me to hear unfair criticism of any country. At present the Soviet Union has one of its naval vessels in Portsmouth Harbour on a goodwill mission to our mother country, Great Britain. On the other hand the Prime Minister of Australia has launched this vicious and unfair criticism of the Soviet Union and has accused it of warmongering. That brings to my mind the tragic embarrassment that Anthony Eden- and the Soviet Union- in the late 1960s when 2 Russian naval vessels were visiting Britain on a goodwill mission with the Premier of the Soviet Union,  Mr Bulganin,  and a British skindiver was detected obviously interfering with the bottom of these Soviet warships. The late Commander - 
Government supporters-  Ha, ha. 
Honourable members opposite identified their own frailties when I mentioned 'bottom'. I set that as a trap to see whether they would come in on it. The honourable members opposite look like three of them, too. The late Commander Buster Crabbe was involved.  Sir Anthony  Eden said- he did not support the action when it was disclosed- that it was virtually searching the pockets of one's guests after inviting them to one's home to a party. The Soviet Union is subjected to undue embarrassment by the West. Honourable members refrain from defending that country in this Parliament because they are afraid that they may be accused of being pro-communist or communist. 1 have never failed to defend any country here when I have heard unfair criticism of it. I am not a tide swimmer. I am not a fence sitter. I have said these things and it has never affected me in my electorate of Hunter because the people there like honesty and straight speaking. Apparently in the electorates of some honourable members the people do not like that. I will continue to say this. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I do not want to detain the House. I am aroused by the statement made by the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  who said we have an obligation to aid private industry in development. I do not know exactly what he means by that, but on the front page of last Wednesday's Sydney  Sun  an article headed 'Millions From State Super Funds "Cheap Loans Charge" ' reads: 
The State Superannuation Fund has lent millions of dollars to private developers at lower interest rates than could come from investing in Government loans. 
I was anxious to ask the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  a question this morning. I intended to ask: Has he seen Press reports to the effect that large sums of money were lent during the tenure of office of the previous New South Wales Government by the New South Wales Superannuation Fund to private developers at low interest rates? Did he note that an important beneficiary of these loans was Parkes Developments Pty Ltd? What steps will be taken to obtain the passports of the controllers of Parkes Developments so as to avoid a repetition of the problems experienced in bringing the Bartons to justice? 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! I point out to the honourable member for Hunter that we are at present on the Homes Savings Grant Amendment Bill. I allowed the honourable member time to proceed, perhaps in anticipation that he was going to mention that certain loan money should be directed towards the homes savings grant scheme and the building of homes. I am afraid I must uphold the point of order which has been taken. What the honourable member has said so far has no relevance to the Bill that the House is discussing at this point in time. 
I was going to link it up but the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Newman)  interrupted. I did not think any honourable member would object if low interest loans had been made available for the building of houses but when it comes to using money obtained from superannuation funds at low interest rates- which is what Parkes Developments has been doing- to spend on rented office space, that is something that every decent member of Parliament should abhor along with the wickedness or the frailties of the previous New South Wales Government. If I am out of order now, I would think that the honourable member for Darling Downs also would have been out of order because the matter is akin to the subject matter before the House insofar as money was made available by the New South Wales Government to private developers to construct office buildings when it should have been used to build low cost homes for people which are so urgently needed. That was my purpose in mentioning this matter, but I was not able to link it up because of the objection taken by the Minister. However, having mentioned the question that I had intended to ask the Attorney-General, if it is your desire,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  to say that I am still out of order I am prepared to abide by your ruling. 
I must admit I had never taken a deep interest in this legislation until a short time ago. I was pleased to hear, and I agree with in part, some of the submissions put by a former eminent criminal counsel, and one who was fairly well respected by all quarters of the community, the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Birney).  I do not suggest for one moment that part of the legal fee when he appeared for  Mr Brown  was paid out of the $500,000 Qantas Airways Ltd robbery. He never had that kind of reputation. I agree with the honourable member's appeal to the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  to give consideration to implementing what is commonly regarded by the honourable member for Phillip and people of my type as the intention of section 5lA of the Justices Act of New South Wales. That section of the Act expedites committal proceedings without witnesses having to be dragged from different corners of the State or even from overseas. I regret that that provision is not available for similar procedures, particularly in connection with this Crimes (Aircraft) Act, because in cases involving this legislation it is more likely that the witnesses would not be local and would have to come from interstate to attend committal proceedings. No doubt the Attorney-General will consider implementing this at the appropriate time. As the honourable member for Phillip pointed out, the statements of evidence are prepared and handed to the magistrate. If the defendant wishes to plead guilty the statements go forward as if they were evidence typed by a deposition clerk, as was done under the old proceedings. 
I speak personally when I say that I think the penalty in this case, a maximum of 7 years imprisonment, is not harsh enough. Probably the honourable member for Phillip would not agree with me because he may have to go back to the criminal Bar to continue his profession after the next election, and I do not say that to him offensively. 
-I do not think that is likely. If the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier)  goes up to the Hunter electorate he will find it a bit difficult. I do not think that 7 years imprisonment is long enough. Actually, today, under the present system, whatever the maximum sentence is, if an accused person or offender receives the maximum sentence he only serves about half of it, sometimes one-third of it, before being released on parole. I would like to see this Parliament, and Australia, set an example to people who are inclined to commit serious crimes on aircraft. This Parliament should give a lesson to the world. 
I am going to go a lot further. I might astonish all members of the Parliament when I say that a 7-year sentence is not long enough. The person gets out in 2 or 3 years on parole. I should like to see a provision made whereby the AttorneyGeneral has to set when a person is to be paroled. The Attorney-General would be answerable to this Parliament; he would be answerable to the people of Australia. He would have to be more careful than a few sentimentalists on a parole board or some judges not answerable to the public and not answerable to Parliament who recommend parole in 18 months when the maximum sentence for a serious crime is 7 years. This is happening every day. Aircraft crime is stunning people throughout the world. It will become more prevalent throughout the world and in this country. We should lead off, not wait until it becomes more prevalent and then say that we will increase the maximum sentence. We should strike out and do so now. 
I raise another point. I do not want to try to astonish anyone, but I have seen cases where big money is involved and juries that obviously have been tampered with. I have said this before in this Parliament. In the not too distant future I want to see the situation whereby a majority of ten out of twelve jurors can return a verdict of guilty or not guilty. It should not have to be a unanimous decision. One juror may hang out through evil influence or even sectarianism as referred to in Clarence Darrow's books, and as referred to by Quentin Reynolds in his book  Court Room  which no doubt the AttorneyGeneral and other lawyers in the place have read. With regard to sectarianism, one of the jurors may happen to be of a certain faith and the accused in the dock is of a certain faith and a juror may stick out for a certain verdict and abort the trial. Either there has to be a retrial or the Attorney-General does not file a second indictment. 
In my view these are things that should have been looked at a long time ago. The AttorneyGeneral and the honourable member for Phillip might even concede me this: These things have been looked at by the mother country in connection with criminal law reform. The Home Secretary in the House of Commons is looking at these things. There is no longer an insistence on a unanimous decision by jurors. I would be happy if the amendment went further than this and said that in connection with a crime on an aircraft where the penalty is 7 years or more a majority decision of ten in a jury of twelve shall be accepted. The Attorney-General looks at his watch. I have the message. It is said that when you are boring and your opponent looks at his watch it is time to consider winding up, but when he shakes it and puts it up to hear whether it is still going, you are positive you should sit down. 
However, I wish to raise another matter. It relates to a recidivist criminal perpetrating a serious crime on an aircraft. When we used to ask a villainous criminal lawyer what was going to be bis defence at a trial, he always used to say, off the record: 'I will hear what you say in the low court and I will cut my cloth to suit'. In the criminal courts in England in recent years there have been only 42 per cent of convictions for serious crimes. It has the English law enforcement authorities worried. My point is that I should like to see the Attorney-General if not now, then at some future date giving serious consideration to the proposal that an accused person in a magistrates court, after the Crown evidence is given, should have to give some indication of his defence which he will tender at the superior court sitting. I think that would only be fair and in the interest of Australia as a whole and would deter the recidivist criminals from becoming involved in serious crimes on aircraft. Those are my submissions. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1) Is it a fact that the Australian Government placed an order with Oberon Shire Council to build a road to Bindook Road Beacon near Yerranderie 
If so, was the cost of the road borne by the Australian Government. 
Was part of this road built on private property, owned by the contractor who constructed the road. 
Can he say whether the contractor charges $5 for each motor car that goes over the road to enter Yerranderie 
-This debate which is deeply involved with social questions in which the community is interested, has been dominated, and probably rightly so, by members of the legal profession. It has been a legal debate. My contribution shall be from a layman's point of view. The honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Birney)  expressed amazement at the soaring number of divorces. This was expected when legal costs for divorces were reduced by the Labor Government. The honourable member was formerly an eminent criminal lawyer, a Queen's Counsel, from Sydney. To members of this House he appeared to be a very frank and outspoken member of the Parliament, but he did not make any reference to the money the legal profession had been making out of the divorces of unfortunate people whose marriages had broken up. In the electorate of Hunter it was quite common for certain members of the legal profession- and there were many- to reef, if I may use the vernacular, $800 off an unfortunate working man in receipt of a minimum or average wage to put a simple undefended divorce through the court. 
Yes, it is about $1,000 now. This was causing many people who could not afford divorces to live separately from their wives, to live under a cloud of mental anguish and torture, and to be social outcasts because they may have had other girl friends. 
Yes, they sometimes lived in sin. Of course, this does not happen to the Mickey Rooneys or the Elizabeth Taylors. I think Mickey Rooney has had 7 wives, and Liz Taylor has married about four times. I think Eddie Fisher has married five or six times. King Henry VIII, too, had about 6 wives. But they are of the upper crust and it does not matter what they do. But the poor old battler could not afford to get a divorce until the Labor Government introduced more progressive and common sense legislation under the Prime Ministership of  Mr Whitlam;  we had this matter quickly rectified. 
I point out also the astuteness of the AttorneyGeneral. I have looked through this legislation to see whether it contains anything which will solve some of the problems, when they occur, associated with mixed marriages. Oh God, what politician will touch that subject! He will get his fingers burnt and lose votes in his electorate. Oh no! I want to relate to the House a case in point. It comes within the scope of the amendments proposed by the Bill. It is an illustration of the law of the land sometimes conflicting with the law of the Vatican and how sometimes the law is interpreted by the courts. The amendments contained in the Bill remind me of something that happened very soon after I entered this Parliament in 1962. A young couple came to my office in Newcastle. The boy was 1 years old and the girl was 17 years old. They were of different faiths. The girl was from a Roman Catholic family very strong in its faith and the boy was from a family of practising Anglicans. The girl's parents who were Dutch said to the boy: 'You are not going to marry our daughter'. They told him straight that he was not to be their son-in-law because he was a Protestant. The young couple decided that they should break away and get married because the girl was pregnant. They sought some advice. They applied to the court for permission to marry. Unfortunately, they went to a solicitor who was of the same faith as the girl and they appeared before a magistrate who was of the same faith as the girl. The case was heard in closed court. I would like the Attorney-General to provide in this legislation for young couples to have the power to decide whether they want their case heard in closed court or in open court, because if that case had been heard in open court I do not think the decision which was reached would have been reached. 
The magistrate deferred the case. He said that he wanted some evidence put before him as to whether the boy would be able to maintain his intended wife if they were given permission to marry by the court. The boy produced to the court evidence from his employer that he was a junior signalman in the railways, that he was studying for his examination, that it was anticipated that he would have no trouble in passing those examinations, and that if he married he would go on to the adult wage of a 21 -year-old. Then he was asked by the magistrate: 'Where will you live?' He said: 'My wife and I will live with my grandmother who is living alone in a 5- bedroom house'. So the obstacles put up by the magistrate in relation to income and accommodation were overcome. Then the boy was asked: 'If the court gives you permission to many, in what church do you intend to get married?' He said: 'We have agreed to get married in the Church of England'. The couple never received permission to marry. 
I spent 3 hours obtaining statutory declarations from the couple, and I took them to see the State Minister for Justice. I said: 'This wicked decision by the court is loaded with sectarianism. Can you do something about it? ' This young couple could not appeal against the magistrate's decision. I hope that the Attorney-General, as Australia's No. 1 legal man, will inform me whether there is provision in this Bill to allow a couple to appeal. Can they appeal? Can they go to a higher tribunal? I understand that if the magistrate rejects the application for permission to marry, that is final and binding. I was able as a layman- not as James, Q.C., but as James the layman- to guide this young couple and advise them that they could obtain another hearing. The hearing is not an appeal but is a reapplication. They applied to a judge to obtain permission to marry. 
If I told you, you would not know. After the way you have been interjecting tonight I do not think you have a brain in your head. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! I would suggest that honourable members on my right cease interjecting. 
The young couple got a rehearing before a judge, and honourable members can imagine the legal expense to which they were put. The parents of the girl engaged an eminent Queen's Counsel to block the marriage. The Queen's Counsel raised the point that neither of the girl's parents had signed the appropriate form necessary to enable the re-application for marriage to be heard. The judge's hands were tied because of that legal point and he could not give a decision. He was sympathetic and wanted to give them permission to marry but legally he could not do it. So he simply deferred the case and the couple were married within a fortnight of the girl 's having the child. 
With all the legal humble-bumble that the young couple had to go through, if the girl had not been strong mentally one could imagine her committing suicide rather than having a child out of wedlock. Despite the promiscuity which goes on today in the community, a lot of women suffer great embarrassment at bearing an illegitimate child, and that could have been brought about by the legal humble-bumble the young couple had to go through. For that and many other reasons I am opposing the provision in this legislation for the extension of notice from 7 days to one month. This would prolong the agony that a young couple have to suffer when they are in love, they are going to have a child and they want to get married as soon as possible. This provision would just prolong the agony, and it has been included in spite of the multitude of letters the Attorney-General has received- probably from extremely prudish people- to which he referred in his second reading speech. 
When this Bill was first introduced- I am sure the Attorney-General will correct me if I am wrong- it compelled a marriage celebrant to sight the birth certificates of young couples before a marriage could be performed. I had another case in my electorate of a young couple who were arranging their marriage because the girl was pregnant. The hall was engaged, the orchestra was engaged, relatives and friends had come from near and far. The young couple visited the marriage celebrant who said that because a birth certificate was not available he could not marry them. I arrived home in my electorate from Parliament on Friday night and the father of the boy rang me and said: 'We have got everything ready. Come over.' He told me that his boy was getting married but that there was an obstacle and the parson would not marry them because one of them did not have a birth certificate. I asked him where his son was born and he told me that it was in Mount Isa. Had the marriage not been taking place the next day I could have phoned Mount Isa and arranged for the police to send the birth certificate by airmail, but it was 4 o'clock on Friday afternoon and the marriage was to take place on the Saturday. I rang the minister of religion and was able to persuade him. 
I asked him whether it would be sufficient if the mother of the girl to be married signed a statutory declaration to the fact that she bore this child on a certain date and in a certain hospital. He deliberated and said: 'I will ring you back'. To my mind that statutory declaration would be more positive evidence than a birth certificate which could be typed up by a junior typist who could make a typing error in regard to the date of birth. To have the mother make a statutory declaration is a more positive step than requiring a birth certificate. But no such provision was included in the legislation when it was passed in this House. With all the eminent lawyers of this Parliament able to make a contribution in the framing of the legislation no provision was made to the effect that in the absence of a birth certificate a mother could sign a statutory declaration as to the date of birth of the person to be married. I believe that in this latter part of the twentieth century society is looking towards and expecting parliamentarians to act to ensure that as few obstacles as possible are placed in the way of young people wanting to get married and as few obstacles as possible are placed in the way of people wanting to get a divorce. But, as I understand the situation, members of the Liberal Party and the National Country Party will vote on Party lines on this matter. 
As the honourable member says, they are directed. Is it because the AttorneyGeneral and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  have been downed on previous occasions when matters have come before this 
Parliament in which members of the Liberal Party and the National Country Party have been given a free vote? On those occasions they did not have the numbers. I believe that that is why they have tied the hands of Government supporters on this occasion. They have said: 'No, the Government Parties have made a decision'. The honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  made reference- I believe rightly so; he got no pleasure out of it, just as I get no pleasure out of doing so- to the way in which the law can be twisted and stretched to suit the parties involved if they are people of influence. I cite the Robson case as an example. The then  Mrs Robson  now Lady Kerr, applied for a divorce on 18 April 1975 and was granted a divorce on 29 April 1975. Such celerity is practically unprecedented. 
I do not think religion entered into the matter. Convenience did, and influence. 
I would not know; perhaps convenience. I believe and I hope that some honourable members on the Government side will see fit to vote independently and in accordance with the wishes of the majority of the electors they represent. I believe that in voting against a delay of one month for young couples applying to be married I shall be reflecting the wishes of the majority of the electors of Hunter. 
I am not wrong. I believe that the Government is making another error in its Budget by increasing divorce costs. Apparently the Government thinks that the working class and the poorer section of the community on low wages are not worthy of the concession provided for them. Of course the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Birney)  has had some experience in this regard. I think he has been at the marriage barrier two or three times. 
Three times. I do not think his divorces would have cost him as much as divorces have cost some of my unfortunate constituents. In the light of the case in Newcastle to which I referred, I would like the AttorneyGeneral to make provision in the Marriage Amendment Bill for young couples to have the right of appeal against the decision of a magistrate. It upset me to learn that a person's religious beliefs would not allow him to administer the law in accordance with the oath he took. I understand that a magistrate or judge takes an oath to administer the law without favour or affection, malice or ill-will. That is the true meaning of the interpretation of our judicial system. I respect our judicial system. It has its faults but no judicial system is perfect. I believe that our judicial system is pretty clean, compared to what goes on in other countries. But there is still injustice in our courts. For example, recently, bail was granted to a man accused of murdering a bank manager. I hope that the truth comes out in that case. 
The honourable member can have the legal people on his side of the House tell him about that case. They know more about it. I hope that the judicial system will be purified of the shortcomings it has. I believe that straight, honest speaking by politicians in this Parliament can make a great contribution to do this than anything else. 
-In the few minutes remaining before the House adjourns, let me condense what has been said in this House in the last 10 minutes. The honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  alleged- and it was confessed to by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)-  that in the mid-1960s the honourable member for Mackellar suggested to this House that nuclear bombs should be dropped on certain factories in mainland China. 
Yes, when China did not have nuclear bombs. 
That is what he advocated in 1 965. He is correcting you, and he is man enough tonight to admit that he did say it. But the honourable member for Chifley was prevented from informing the House of what the honourable member for Mackellar had said prior to the departure of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  accompanied by the Minister for Foreign Affairs the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock),  to be the guests of the Chinese. The Prime Minister was so concerned about the debate that has taken place in the last 10 minutes that he walked into the House and looked at the honourable member for Mackellar as if to say: 'Be careful what you say'. But the honourable member for Mackellar is a man who is not easily frightened, and in his concluding remarks he said that he did say it. I believe that in his heart he regrets that he ever said it. He did not repeat it after he said it in this House. I was sitting in the Parliament on that night and I was appalled that the honourable member for Mackellar should suggest dropping nuclear weapons on certain factories in the People's Republic of China. As far as I am concerned, the People's Republic of China has vehemently declared to the world time and time again that she will never be the first to use nuclear weapons; that if nuclear weapons are used against her, she will retaliate, but she will never be the first to use them. If China were not sincere in that regard, she could have given nuclear weapons to North Vietnam - 
-I want to bring to the notice of the House facts with which I do not think any fair minded Australian would agree. A prominent member of the Liberal Party was before the Central Court of Petty Sessions in Sydney on Thursday 29 July on conspiracy charges involving $344,362 - 
An amount of $344,362, allegedly milked from a mining company. The person was Ann Elaine Kent, 37, of Glendalough, Perth, a secretary to a Federal member of Parliament who is not a bad fellow, as far as I know; he is only politically misguided. The woman charged was a Liberal Party candidate in the Western Australian State elections in 1 974. 
Here he goes again. He hates the truth, this young lawyer. He likes to suppress the truth. 
-! was galloping before you could girth me,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I was really very happy to read in the newspapers and to hear the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Birney)  this morning revive the matter of Alexander Barton, the greatest spiv in Australia's history, who misappropriated or embezzled about $33m from Australian shareholders and who is now living in extreme luxury in Paraguay. Despite the fact that I have been criticised in this Parliament before by honourable members opposite for using my parliamentary privilege, on no occasion have I abused parliamentary privilege and regretted it- and I do have a conscience. Information has come to me this morning that Alexander Barton has told certain people in Paraguay that $300,000 in cash was transferred from the Bartons in Paraguay to Australia in recent times. I am wondering whether the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott),  with the mighty resources at his disposal per medium of the Commonwealth Police and other avenues could find out who received that $300,000 which I believe was sent from Paraguay to Australia. 
I wonder whether it was received by  Mr Gruzman,  the barrister who showed unprecedented interest for an eminent criminal lawyer and left this country and went to Latin America to give advice to the Bartons soon after they were detected there. The Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen),  who is sitting in the chamber, is a trained and, I understand, successful criminal lawyer. One could not imagine him leaving the country and going overseas to give advice. There are lawyers in other countries through whom the business is usually done. 
I regret to learn that the man, Bela Csidei, who was mentioned in a derogatory fashion in today's  Sydney Morning Herald  and yesterday's Sydney  Sun,  was possibly a front man for certain prominent businessmen in Sydney. One whose name is mentioned- I hope that it is not true but it was mentioned in one of the newspapers and I understand that the information is pretty authenticwas  Sir Peter  Abeles, a man who has gained the respect of all sections of society. Now that this matter has boiled over his name is being tarnished by his association with the Bartons. I understand that the name of  Sir Arthur  George, the man who became prominent for promoting in Australia my favourite sport- soccer- is being bandied about in Sydney as being associated with some of these crook companies by which the Bartons got away with millions of dollars. I hope that  Sir Arthur  George and  Sir Peter  Abeles will clear their names if they can because they are men who enjoy the respect of all sections of the community. 
In conclusion, I repeat that I hope that the Attorney-General can find out who received the $300,000. If  Mr Gruzman  received it I hope that he will be frank and honest and will come forward because the man who always admits his errors or shortcomings gains more respect from society than by hiding and ultimately being found out. Time will not permit me to say anything further as I understand that the time for this debate has expired. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-I listened intently to the speech of the honourable member for Swan  (Mr Martyr).  He followed a theme similar to that followed by other honourable members on the Government side of the House. Lang Hancock, who is responsible for his induction into this Parliament, undoubtedly would have been very proud of the honourable member if he had listened to his speech tonight. I have no doubt that the honourable member is an honourable man as far as being loyal to those who put him here is concerned, and that he will always be honourable to Lang Hancock and Lang Hancock will never be able to find any fault with what he says in this Parliament. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)There is no substance to the point of order. 
I have exposed a weakness that I did not know the honourable member had. The truth hurts. However, he is a personable fellow and I look forward to enjoying his company here until the next election. He will suffer his demise at that election only because he is politically misguided. 
I come to my contribution to the debate on this obnoxious document called the Budget. In my view, and in the view of honourable members of this side of the House, it is a document that has been cunningly conceived. It is a deceptive document. It purports to ease and, in some cases, to rectify Australia's economic ills, to reduce the rate of inflation, to lower the level of unemployment and, overall, to bring about greater stability in the economy. The honourable member for Swan, in his unknowledgeable fairness, said something about inflation and chaotic unemployment in West Germany. I thought he would have attributed that to  Mr E.  G. Whitlam too, but he was not so foolish. 
We on this side of the House believe that this document will not achieve the objectives that the Fraser Government pretends that it will. On the contrary, it will contribute to greater unemployment and further industrial chaos. The Government wants to curb wages and allow the manufacturer to sell his goods at the highest procurable price. The Tories in this Parliament, led by  Mr Fraser  and  Mr Anthony,  have opposed any endeavours by the Labor Party to introduce effective national price control laws. Therefore, the worker today, who is not illiterate, as are the workers in many of the banana republics in Brazil, Latin America and some parts of Asia, is insisting on the highest price for his labour, just as the manufacturer insists on the highest price for his goods. 
The Budget will retard economic recovery. According to what we have been told in the Budget, total outlays will increase by 11 per cent, whereas an increase of 12 per cent is expected in the rate of inflation. Real government spending will fall. Yet honourable members opposite say: 'Turn on the lights'. The lights have been turned out completely since they achieved office in December by falsity and subterfuge. Total receipts are expected to increase by 19 per cent, compared with a growth in the economy of about 4 per cent. Receipts from personal income tax are expected to increase by 25 per cent, compared with an increase of 12 per cent in average weekly earnings. Rather than reducing income tax, the Fraser-Lynch administration is sharply increasing the proportion of income which people will pay in tax. Total spending by governments will be curbed below possible and desirable levels. How will that stimulate the economy? Honourable members opposite constantly blame the Whitlam administration for the present state of the economy, but the public is no longer falling for that argument. That is why a Labor Government was elected to power in New South Wales. Business confidence will be undermined. The States have to bear the brunt of Commonwealth expenditure cuts. Grants, in many areas, have been slashed. State income taxes are now inevitable. Labor provided for substantial payments to the States in the 3 years that it was in office. It increased its payments to the States by 20 per cent in 1973-74, by 50 per cent in 1974-75 and by 30 per cent in 1975-76. 
What does the Lynch Budget mean to the States? The Budget will have disastrous consequences for the States. Payments to the States will be less than 90 per cent of what was provided previously, which will cause a combination of unemployment, increased rates and charges, and a reduction in services. Most States will be in trouble before the end of this financial year. The Government has made savage slashes in this area because of its attitude towards reducing inflation and unemployment. In my personal view the Budget Speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  was misleading. Payments to State and local governments, after repayments of loans have been deducted, amount to $9,077m, which is a net increase of 7 per cent The Treasurer's claim about a higher percentage is based on his treating previous unemployment relief schemes, for which the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  and the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  were principally responsible- I refer to unemployment relief schemes such as the Regional Employment Development scheme which the Australian people have applauded so much- as if they did not exist. 
The Government has made adjustments to the earlier figures in relation to hospital payments. The Commonwealth has broken the Medibank hospital agreement and will reduce payments for the operation of hospitals. There is no provision to increase those funds which go to build hospitals. Funds for tuberculosis control will cease at the end of this year. Unemployment grants to the extent of $30m have ceased. Funds for Aborigines- mainly for Aboriginal housinghave been reduced by $10m, or $52m overall. Yet the Australian people voted approximately 9 to 1 in favour of uplifting the conditions of Aborigines. That vote was taken prior to 1970, before many honourable members now on the Government side were in this House. The Government is revoking the overwhelming opinion of the Australian people. It is cutting back on finance made available to Aborigines. 
There is to be no increase in funds for welfare housing. Growth centres, such as those at Albury-Wodonga, Bathurst-Orange and Campbelltown, will run out of funds in a few months. The payment of funds for area improvement programs in 13 local government areas has ceased. 
-I understand the honourable member still has his play lunch money. He is getting a reputation for meanness among honourable members around the House. Funds for sewerage have been reduced by $63m. Funds for the National Estate have ceased. There is no increase in funds for roads. No new programs for urban public transport have been approved. Funds for dairy adjustment have been reduced by $5m. I do not know how the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  will sell that phase of the Budget to his cow-cocky friends in the New England area. 
The honourable member knows all about that. That is why he is advocating the promotion of the dung beetle. You know what the dung beetle lives on, do you not? 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! It might be an idea if the honourable member for Wimmera ceases interjecting and if the honourable member for Hunter continues his speech, using the notes which he has in front of him. 
Funds for local government have been reduced by approximately $80m. Expenditure in education has been maintained in most areas but this has not allowed for any growth cuts which have been made to student assistance or to Aboriginal and migrant education. The Whitlam Government doubled expenditure on education in its first year, it doubled it again in the second year and maintained the amount in real terms in its third year. These are some of the things which the present Government has undone because it is on the side of powerful monopolies, big business and multi-national companies. I shall say something shortly about multi-national companies. An honourable member on the Government side of the House, I think the honourable member for Capricornia  (Mr Carige),  praised the development of the coal industry in central Queensland. But he gave a one-sided version of the situation. In this Budget the Government has introduced measures to reduce the coal levy. I believe that in many cases it could have been justifiably maintained. 
I shall prove to the honourable member that I do not believe in the abolition of the coal levy if he will listen to me and be fair to me. I do not want to be discourteous and insult him because he is only a young man in the place. But if he keeps on he will ask for it and he will get it. The Government has robbed Medibank to subsidise the likes of Utah Development Co., a multi-national company, to the extent that from 31 October 1974 to 31 October 1975 Utah earned a clear-cut profit of $100m. Thiess Peabody Mitsui Coal Pty Ltd has had taken off the levy which the Labor Party imposed of $6 a ton for export coal. The Government has imposed medical costs on the unfortunate pensioners who get a bit of superannuation in order to subsidise the likes of Utah. 
If I am permitted to develop my argument I shall prove to everyone in the House the unfairness of the Government in this way and also in relation to the fertiliser subsidy. The Government has deprived the pensioners of rights they had under the Whitlam Labor administration. The Government has been taking off the poor and giving to the rich. This is in conflict with every tenet of religious belief to which one may subscribe. In the calendar year ending December 197S the Thiess Peabody Mitsui company earnt $9.6m in clear-cut profit. To a lesser extent the Bellambi Coal Co. Ltd, Kembla Coal and Coke Pty Ltd, Huntley Colliery Pty Ltd, and Clutha Development Ltd are more modest in their profits. It is anticipated that they will earn $500,000 in the calendar year. In reducing the coal levy the Government is giving millions of dollars to these rich multi-national coal exporters. It is giving them the benefit of $33m and allowing small wage earners or pensioners with small superannuation payments to pay a minimum of $5 as the Medibank levy which this Government is imposing. 
In a full year the Government will save $37m for the rich multi-nationals. We know what the multi-nationals have done in Latin America. I have been there. We know what they have done in Chile and we know what they are about to do in Brazil as Brazilian minerals are developed. The coal levy would have cost $1 12m in a full year and that is what the Government has returned to the rich coal owners. Two very intelligent research officers have investigated the effects in Queensland of the multi-nationals and of their long time pal Joh Bjelke-Petersen, the peanut king from Kingaroy. I quote from a report by these 2 research officers which cites some views of  Mr Lang  Hancock, the man who sponsored the candidature of the honourable member for Swan for this Parliament, in connection with Theiss Peabody Mitsui which is now taking some of our coal and has been doing so for some years. The report states: 
The increasing appetite of Japan now for control of our raw materials prompted millionaire Western Australia minerals tycoon, Lang Hancock to say in October 1971: 'Japan wants increasing equity in Australian mining operations, a captive source of supply. They want to own some of the minerals, and they'll use anything to get it . . .' 
Those are the remarks of an out and out antiLabor man who I understand is a very loyal friend of the honourable member for Swan. One time it was the practice of certain countries to invade with its troops a country with rich resources, like Australia, and take it over, but no longer is that practice followed. They now raid the target country with their money and take it over economically. I can remember my dear old father telling me at one time- and this quotation has been given previously in this Parliamentthat Baron Rothschild, one of the early international bankers said approximately 50 years ago: 'Give me control of a country's economy and I care not who makes its laws'. That is as relevant today as it was 50 years ago when uttered by Baron Rothschild. 
No, we tried to curb the power of the multi-nationals. We have been accused in this debate today of persecuting private enterprise. We never persecuted private enterprise. We were trying to get justice for the Australian people, to ensure that they got a proper equity out of God-given assets like bauxite, coal and iron ore. That is what we were after. Neither Lang Hancock nor the multi-nationals ever created bauxite or iron ore. If there is a man above- and you believe there is,  Mr Deputy Speaker-  then these assets are God-given. No individual should reap rich profits and be able to have mink coats, servants and Mercedes and Rolls Royce cars at the expense of the worker who helps him produce that wealth. 
-Is Barton a mate of yours? I would not be surprised. Barton said at one time that he was an out-and-out Liberal. He said he was being persecuted. Let me tell the Parliament what is going on in central Queensland. So much for the applause this afternoon by the honourable member for Capricornia.  Mr Justice  Gallagher investigated the living conditions of the working class people, the miners, at Blackwater. The report to which I referred earlier states: 
In 1963, evidence of the living conditions for Theiss Peabody Mitsui mineworkers and their families at Moura appalled Judge Gallagher. He described the conditions as being 'nauseating, revolting and degrading. ' That exposure, which followed a strike by the Moura workers, forced some action to rectify the worst of the conditions. 
Moura Homes have been built by the Housing Commission, with the company paying for some of them and contributing towards the cost of sewerage and other services. 
Let me quote what the Miners' Federation and  Mr Justice  Gallagher went on to say.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  you as a man of God and a Christian must appreciate the words, even though you support a political party that invariably allows these conditions to continue. The report states: 
In the case taken in April 1963 by the Miners' Federation against Thiess-Peabody-Mitsui over living and other conditions at Moura, the Coal Industry Tribunal (Judge Gallagher) paid a warm tribute to the miners' women folk there. 
Evidence in the case, which followed a strike by the Moura workers, had revealed that workers and their families were subjected by the company to conditions which Judge Gallagher described as 'nauseating, revolting and degrading'. 

 Mr Justice Gallagher went on to refer to 2 miners wives who had given evidence. They were  Mrs Judith  Martin who had 6 children and  Mrs Rosemary  Window who had 5 children.  Mr Justice  Gallagher said: 
Despite the conditions under which they had to live, the 2 women have not lost their dignity and they have not lost any element of femine refinement. They are a tribute to what an Australian woman will do in bringing up her family. 
This is the opinion of a non-political man. I notice that the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Yates)  is in the chamber. He knows the conditions in which the British miners lived. I had hoped that time would permit me to develop my argument a little further. Next week I am going back to Wales where my grandfather was born. I am going back to Tredegar. This is where the Welsh miners developed their religion and thenunions. 
Yes. It is a pity that the honourable member would not go there also. I would not inflict him on Wales. He has not an ounce of decency or political ideology in him. I am going back to Wales to revere the principles I was brought up to believe in and on which I will never rat. 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. Would there be any advantage in introducing a new public security on a limited basis with an inflation-adjusted capital value or floating interest rate? If so, what would the advantages be to the Government and to the public? If not, what would be the disadvantages? 
-I thank the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  for his courtesy. The purpose of the States Grants (Capital Assistance) Bill (No. 2), as we know, is to authorise payment of capital grants totalling $452m to the States in 1976-77. 1 was elated to hear the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  say in his second reading speech, at the second paragraph on page 2: 
The grants were introduced to help the States finance works such as schools, police buildings and the like from which debt charges are not normally recovered. 
The Treasurer then went on to the details. I intend to submit in this debate that this Parliament is entitled to have a look at the States, how they run their affairs and how they operate their laws, particularly their company laws. I submitted to the Parliament some time ago that a shadowy company in Sydney called Parkes Developments Pty Ltd had obtained money from the New South Wales Police Superannuation- the New South Wales State Superannuation Board - 
I do not know how the honourable member would know that. Parkes Developments Pty Ltd obtained from the New South Wales Superannuation Board, at a minimum interest rate, money to build the new police headquarters in College Street, Sydney. The Police Department occupied the building and the company rented it to the Department at a charge of approximately $1,000 a week- after obtaining the money from the New South Wales Government at a very low rate of interest. 
The matters that I intend to submit to the Parliament are financial matters of grave importance to the investing public in Australia. There is evidence that in the past the New South Wales Government manipulated things in favour of Mafia-type organisations that have been able, through our present company laws, to fleece the Australian public of millions of dollars. This organisation has been controlled mainly by a set of gentlemen who migrated to this country from Hungary. One of them started out as a septic tank salesman and could be described as the largest sewer rat of them all. He is none other than the infamous Alexander Barton, who is in Paraguay as an absconder from justice. These gentlemen were able to obtain millions of dollars by way of loans from the New South Wales State Superannuation Board to build office buildings in Sydney and then rent them or sell them back to the New South Wales Government, which was controlled at the time by the Premier,  Sir Robert  Askin. Many of these gentlemen were knighted by  Sir Robert.  He is now on the board of a company, by favour of one of them, but certainly not for his expertise. 
One of these gentlemen, namely a  Mr Charody,  accompanied  Sir Robert  on an overseas journey, and while behind the Iron Curtain in Budapest these gentlemen quartered  Sir Robert  in a luxury hotel used as the headquarters of the Shah of Iran when he visits the country. They gave  Sir Robert  Askin, the top New South Wales Liberal, top drawer treatment. This Mafia empire was apparently started by the flotation of mining companies, mostly set up in the office which was once controlled by the New South Wales Attorney-General,  Sir Kenneth  McCaw and which is still known as McCaw, Johnson and Co. These gentlemen even gave 5000 shares at par, at 10c a share, to the New South Wales Premier and 10 000 shares to his lieutenant,  Mr Waddy,  M.L.A., in a company called Gem Exploration. What a gem! It is reported in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of Wednesday, 8 April 1970, that both these gentlemen did very well out of the deal. 
The honourable member would not say that if he knew my financial position. In fact, they made a monster of a killing on the Sydney Stock Exchange. The firm of McCaw, Johnson and Co. was employed almost exclusively in forming dozens of companies for these gentlemen.  Sir Peter  Abeles, featured in today's Press as returning to Australia from Italy, was able to cop a fortune out of a worthless mining company known as Halls Peak. Another of these gentlemen, described by his friend,  Mr Abeles,  as ' my son ', to which he replied ' I am your stupid son', a Mafia term, was a close associate of 
Alexander Barton and is now before the courts in Sydney. This same gentleman was reported in the Sydney Press as having been arrested in Norfolk Island with 1.8 million - 

 Mr Sullivan What? 
-Australian dollars. This gentleman was arrested with $1.8m stacked on their sides. I understand that the police fingers got tired counting the dollars. They locked the money in a cell and could not sleep during the night in case someone got away with the money. This gentleman had in his possession on Norfolk Island $ 1.8m in a suitcase. This same gentleman was described by his close friend,  Mr Abeles,  in 1972 as a beachcomber. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, I am asking the Government to make sure that these gentlemen are not allowed to leave the country until the taxation authorities are satisfied that they have met all their obligations to them and the charges that have been brought against them by the New South Wales Corporate Affairs Commission are completed. There is mounting evidence that these gentlemen are preparing to flee the country. We learnt from the Press the other day that one of the persons to whom I have referred,  Mr Csidei,  was granted bail of $10,000 by a magistrate because he wants to go overseas. He is the man who was on Norfolk Island with $1.8m in a suitcase. He was on his way to New Zealand to an untold destination. 
This is the State in respect of which I have asked questions in the past concerning the way in which it runs its affairs. The New South Wales Corporate Affairs Commission has not completed its inquiries and there is mounting evidence that these gentlemen are preparing to leave Australia. One is facing no less than 67 charges by the Corporate Affairs Commission. Alexander Barton is starting to sing. He has said he will talk if he is brought back to Australia. I believe if he is encouraged to come back now he will reach heights unprecedented by the Great Caruso. He will sing about some of the top Liberals in the State of New South Wales and in the Commonwealth. He will fill the Sydney Opera House if he is allowed to talk. He will fill the docks of the Criminal Court in Sydney and the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Birney)  will not be short of a brief for many years to appear before the courts and defend these people. 
This Parliament has been denigrated by men like you. 
You go back to where you came from, out there. 
Is the Prime Minister aware of public reports which allege that Fretilin broadcasts monitored in Darwin by Telecom Australia were sent by the radio seized by the Government early last week? Can he confirm or deny the accuracy of these reports? Is he aware that since the Australian based Fretilin radio was seized 2 messages have been received in Darwin by Telecom, one on 1 October and the other on 4 October? Is the Prime Minister aware that Radio Maubere broadcasts can be picked up in Darwin on the 3804 kilohertz 75-metre band at 7 p.m. tonight? Can he assure the Parliament that no attempts will be made to terminate the service provided by Telecom in receiving and conveying messages from East Timor to the Australian people? 
-Last weekend I returned from the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association's conference which was held in Mauritius. I was most impressed by the interest shown by delegates from all over the Commonwealth in the East Timor takeover by Indonesia. The honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry)  and  Mr John  Middleton of Papua New Guinea greatly impressed delegates when they spoke on this matter. One could gauge the attitude of delegates. There is growing indignation by millions of Australians now they are learning more about the barbaric takeover of East Timor by our friends, Indonesia. 
I want to applaud the submissions made by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  because I do not think that anyone in this Parliament is more qualified to speak of the loyalty of the Timorese natives to Australian troops in the last World War than the honourable member who served in Timor and was taken prisoner of war from East Timor by the Japanese. I understand that the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  is to be the next Opposition  speaker  in the debate. The honourable member, although not taken a prisoner of war, effectively discharged his duty to Australia in driving the Japanese out of Indonesian Borneo. 
In the events that have occurred in Portuguese Timor since August of last year Australia has witnessed perhaps the worst example of decolonisation since the process began in its modern context after the Second World War. According to some accounts these events have cost more than 50 000 lives. Although these figures may not be substantiated the extraordinary measures taken by Indonesia to prevent outsiders from gaining access to East Timor suggest that the figure of 50 000 lives might well be accurate. The grim tragedy of Timor constitutes a denial of basic human rights as well as a brutal act of annexation of the type carried out by Hitler when he seized Czechoslovakia. Here one might point out that Hitler used 'volunteers'- the Frie Corpsand contended that the people of Czechoslovakia wanted to integrate with the Third Reich, as Indonesia has alleged in respect of East Timor. It is also interesting to note that the mood in which the German aggression was carried out is not so different from the mood prevailing in the governments of the countries adjacent to Indonesia today. 
It could be argued that the Australian Government, despite a few statements critical of Indonesia's aggression against East Timor, has been negative in its approach to this problem. The honourable member for Fraser, who as I have mentioned was a delegate with me to the Australian Parliamentary Association's conference in Mauritius, reported that during the United Nations Security Council debate the Australian mission played a low key role and sought not to embarrass Indonesia. The honourable member reported that several Western diplomatic missions in New York indicated that they would have adopted a firmer stand on the Timor question if Australia had given them some leadership. But Australia, which other missions accepted as having an intimate knowledge of the Timor issue, did not seek to provide the kind of leadership that might have led to effective United Nations action in support of the right of self-determination of the peoples of East Timor. In short, it might be argued that although certain statements critical of Indonesia's aggression were made within the Australian Parliament, Australia did nothing to prevent what is perhaps the worst act of aggression to have occurred in South East Asia since the end of World War II. 
After its  invasion on  7 December last year the Indonesian Government treated the angry reaction of the UN, and in particular the resolutions of the Security Council, with scant regard. In 2 separate resolutions the Security Council called on Indonesia to withdraw her troops and to provide for an acceptable act of self-determination. Indonesia's response was to sabotage the efforts of  Mr Winspeare,  the UN special envoy, to make an impartial assessment of the situation in East Timor. Indonesia has consistently claimed that the people of East Timor wanted to integrate with their country, a claim that has been denied by all Australian observers who visited Timor prior to the invasion. That includes persons of all political persuasions- from Labor parliamentarians to  Mr Michael  Darby who has been a constant foe of the Labor Party. The Indonesians then went on to organise hurriedly a complete sham act of free choice, cynically exploiting petty kings and chiefs who had been the pillars of the old colonial system. 
The Timor episode raises many questions about Indonesia's integrity and, it might be argued, about the conduct of Australian foreign policy. Many observers of Indonesian political behaviour have contended that Indonesia is a peace loving country, without territorial ambitions. Perhaps this is so, but it should be noted that this is the third occasion within a period of some 16 years that Indonesia has used force against neighbouring territories. It used force in West Irian in 1961. 1 had the pleasure of accompanying the honourable member for Wills to the Indonesian border of West Irian. There we spoke to 150 West Irians who had advocated independence in West Irian and as a result were subjected to maltreatment. One of the people to whom we spoke had been shot through the shoulder. These people had fled from West Irian and had sought refuge in what was known then as Australian New Guinea. Indonesia also used force during the period of confrontation with Malaysia. Has the kind of behaviour really ended? 
Events in Timor have caused considerable anxiety in Papua New Guinea which shares a common border with Indonesia. As I said in my opening remarks an impressive speech was made by John Middleton of the Parliament of Papua New Guinea at the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association's conference. We might ask ourselves whether Australia, by accepting Indonesian agression against East Timor, has not given encouragement to Indonesian leaders like General Moertopo and General Moerdani, who appear to have been the architects of the seizure of East Timor. Might these generals not be tempted to repeat their operation against East Timor at a time when Papua New Guinea is still facing serious problems in establishing national unity? On the basis of our performance in the Timor affair it would not be surprising if the Government in Port Moresby has grave misgivings about how Australia would respond if certain Indonesian generals decided to launch another 'integration' operation. It could be argued that Australia not only did nothing to prevent the seizure of East Timor but also it now seems ready to brush aside a brutal act of aggression costing thousands of lives in the name of establishing good relations with a regime whose main attraction is its relentless hostility towards communism. 
Whenever the Opposition has raised the Timor affair the Government has responded by attacking my leader,  Mr Whitlam,  for the way in which he handled the Timor policy when he was in office. However, it might be argued that the main invasion occurred while the Fraser Government was in office and that the time for a forceful response to that act of aggression was last December. It might also be argued that the Indonesian Government was not convinced that Australia was seriously concerned about the denial of self-determination to East Timor and simply chose to ignore the few statements emanating from Canberra. The Indonesians would have realised, however, that the reaction from the Labor Government to such a naked act of aggression would have been more forceful and less compromising. I understand from private sources that the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock),  for whom I have great respect, quite apart from his political views, was subjected on one of his visits to Indonesia to great humiliation and indignity by one of the generals. We should not appease Indonesia any longer but should speak out strongly and say what our attitude is, for which millions of Australians would applaud us. 
-I ask the Prime Minister As the Government's stated policy towards the situation in Timor had 4 parts, and as the part relating to humanitarian aid has been altered, will the Prime Minister tell the House what are the remaining elements of the present policies towards Timor? Will he also say whether in recent talks with the Indonesian President he raised the question of the murders of 5 Australian newsmen at Balibo and the present whereabouts of the missing Australian journalist Roger East? 
I should like to join with the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  in condemnation of the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Birney)  in his remarks and criticism of a friendly and world power in the forum of this House last night. He is only too ready to criticise me from time to time when he says that I abuse Parliamentary privilege. I have never abused Parliamentary privilege as the honourable member for Phillip did last night. A backbencher who is unable to get his name in the Press has got to resort to one of the lowest acts that a member of this House has resorted to for some time. I call on every member of this House - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! Considering that the hour is late and we have been delayed a little I ask the honourable member for Hunter to rephrase his remarks and to continue in a slightly different vein. 
-I will endeavour to do that. The remarks of the honourable member for Phillip were completely unjustified against a friendly and world power whose balance of trade with Australia has been about six to one in our favour over a period of 10 years. I call for support from every member of this House, particularly the members of the National Country Party whose leader was in the Soviet Union quite recently to negotiate further trade for the country people of Australia. The honourable member for Phillip last night launched an attack which is unbecoming of a former eminent Queen's Counsel of the Sydney Bar. He used the words 'the Russian ripoff'. One would expect- and I strongly suspect- that he has been retained by the Conference Shipping Lines overseas to try to destroy the popularity of the Russian tourist ships in this country. The Russian tourist ships are hired by agents of the Shaw Savill Line, a reputable shipping company for more than 80 years. They are the agents of some of the Russian ships that operate tourist activities outside the Australian ports. They are responsible for the conduct and the tours. All the Russians do is to supply the ships. 
The honourable member for Phillip should be praising the induction of Russian tourist ships to Australian ports which provide cheap holidays for Australian workers. Apparently some of his inebriated constituents who admit that visibility was bad and who probably overindulged in vodka and intoxication- getting rid of some of their ill-gotten gains around the gambling clubs at Bondi- are responsible for this furphy which the honourable member for Phillip took, hook line and sinker. He should be ashamed of himself. I ask him to apologise to the Soviet Ambassador tomorrow for his completely unfounded allegation. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Is the Prime Minister concerned that reports of the personal behaviour of certain of his Ministers may place them in the position where the conduct of their official duties may be impaired or national security compromised? In particular, has he recently expressed his concern about these matters to the Minister for Defence? 
I wish to speak briefly on the estimates of the Department of Science and I express my thanks to the Committee for allowing me to do so. I have noted some criticism in magazines that I have read of the inadequacy of scientific research into the fishing industry off the coast of Australia and in Antarctica. I learned today that Russian scientific authorities have offered to allow our scientists to go on their modernly equipped oceanographic ships to explore the fishing resources in this part of the world around the Australian coast. I hope that if this invitation is acceptable to the Government, we will take it up. This would relieve our Government, our country and our taxpayers of the burden of obtaining their own expensive oceanography ships to carry out the research. I think we must admit that the Soviet Government is far more advanced in this field than we are, and possibly more advanced than many countries are. I should like to think that the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  will take an appreciative view of the invitation to the Government, if it has been officially forthcoming, and would take up the offer if it has been made to allow our scientists to accompany the Russians on their modern scientific ships. 
I read recently that the Soviet Embassy had extended an invitation to the Australian Antarctic Division to use all the Russian facilities in the Antarctic, including refuelling and maintenance for our helicopters carrying out scientific surveys in the Antarctic region. I think it would probably be unfair of all of us not to express our thanks in this regard in the national Parliament to the Soviet Government for offering its facilities at its Antarctic base to our scientists at our base in Antarctica. I have no hesitancy in expressing my personal gratitude to the Soviet Government for this very kind offer of which I understand the Australian Antarctic Division availed itself. 
-Yesterday the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  sanctimoniously and perfunctorily - 
The Prime Minister dismissed my question without notice concerning the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen). 
It is apparent that the Prime Minister has a very short memory. 

 - Mr Speaker, are you going to permit that? 
Apparently the Prime Minister has a very short memory. It is like his promises to the electorate. There is one code of behaviour when he is in opposition and another when he is in government. He has so quickly forgotten his question of 4 June 1975 to the then Prime Minister,  Mr E.  G. Whitlam, concerning the then Treasurer. I quote from page 3095 of the  Hansard  at which  Mr Fraser  said: 
I ask the Prime Minister if he would be good enough to put an end to speculation that he is about to replace  Dr Cairns  as Treasurer, will the Prime Minister give an assurance that  Dr Cairns,  if he is replaced as Treasurer, will not be named as Minister for Defence? 
Was the Prime Minister on that occasion concerned with the great issue of national defence. as I have been for some years, or was he concerned with and alluding to other issues?  His  pompus reply to my question yesterday suggests that he seeks to ascribe his motives and thoughts to my question. I dwell on this matter not to allude to the personal lives of members on either side of the House but to draw to the attention of the House the Janus-like behaviour of the Prime Minister in this place. 
I now turn to another matter- a matter that the Prime Minister, unlike  Mr Hamer,  cannot deny any knowledge of. It concerns a company known as Vapold Pty Ltd and the secretary of that company. The Premier of Victoria,  Mr Hamer,  and the Public Works Minister,  Mr Dunstan,  both denied any knowledge of this company and its scurrilous activities. This is the company that acted on behalf of the Liberal Party of Australia when it purchased a building from the Victorian State Government- a building that is designed to be developed as a policy research centre for the State and Federal branches of the Liberal Party of Australia, that august body which is never involved in intrigue, conspiracy or malpractice. Will the Prime Minister now deny that the husband of a Minister of his Government is the company secretary - 
I never mentioned the other chamber,  Mr Speaker. 
Well, this is the same Vapold Pty Ltd, a Liberal Party trustee company, that owns buildings by abusing privilege and power. It seems that the secretary's contributions to the Liberal Party of Australia do not rest there. The secretary is also the executive director of 3XY Pty Ltd, a company which operates a commercial radio station in Melbourne- a company which he admits is controlled by the Liberal Party of Australia. The Liberal Party of Victoria not only acquires buildings in dubious circumstances, but it also seeks to make sure that the public is exposed only to suitably vetted political advertising. I quote from today's Melbourne  Age  which states that the secretary of the company said:  ... the vetting of political advertising material provided an opportunity to see what political opponents  of the  Liberal Party were saying. 
The report went on to say that the secretary said that to the best of his knowledge 3XY Pty Ltd had never agreed to Labor Party advertisements on 3XY. 
I think you have been more than fair to them,  Mr Speaker.  I repeat that the secretary of the company said that to the best of his knowledge 3XY Pty Ltd had never agreed to Labor Party advertisements on 3XY. The community of Australia is interested in these affairs and in this democratic institution. I believe these matters should be raised. 
I cannot speak with more vehemence on a subject before the Parliament than on this matter. This is a total deception, a betrayal of the Australian people. In my view, it is the most wicked piece of legislation that has ever come before the Parliament. It is a payoff to those who contributed to the finances of the National Country Party and the Liberal Party at the last election. There is a significant aspect about this legislation: A man who came to this Parliament with a very clean background and who is respected by all members on this side of the chamber, the honourable member for Farrer(MrFife) - 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  proposed: 
That the question be now put 
Look, there they go - 
-On 6 September 1936 a bouncing baby boy was born into a well-established Victorian family with a name prominent and well known in that State. The child grew up normally. He was long spined. He therefore had a two-fold privilege. He was able to carry his head high and when he grew to adulthood the top portion of his body was far removed from the lower part of the anatomy. This was some deal of an advantage. The child was a little slow in walking but he showed great skill in crawling. I believe he still has those qualities. The child was named Marshall Baillieu. 
-I ask the Prime Minister whether he proposes to provide any further assistance to one of the three major automobile manufacturers in the marketing of its new saloon? He has already taken it on a road test, posed for photographs with it and given an interview about it for a motoring magazine. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes, I do. 

 -Mr Speaker, you will recall that you prevented me from explaining my case on certain grounds in allegations against the honourable member. In my speech in the adjournment debate I was allowed to say only that he opened certain documents. I intended to correct that, if I have been allowed, by saying that he unfolded certain documents. The documents were folded in this manner on my seat here. 
-I repeat, they were folded. They were opened by the honourable member. 
I will endeavour to conform with your request. I have been misrepresented in that the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Baillieu)  said that he never opened the documents. He did unfold the documents. He was personally observed by the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  who is a man of integrity in this House. He was seen to copy from the document. 
I do not accept his explanation. He has misled the House. 

 - Mr Speaker, will you guide me as to how to bring this matter before the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Privileges so that the honourable member for Maribyrnong might be interviewed? 
I have before me a note which tells me that an honourable member wishes to make a personal explanation. I inform the honourable gentleman that it is not sufficient when wishing to make a personal explanation to send me a note in the 
House. Anybody wishing to make a personal explanation should approach me and inform me that he intends to do so. If the honourable gentleman pursues that course I shall consider whether I will give him the opportunity. 
I seek to make a personal explanation. 
I refer to an article written by  Mr Alan  Reid in the  Bulletin  of 13 November. This is the second article by  Mr Alan  Reid, who is a senior member of the Press Gallery, in which he has made attempts to silence me in the House of Representatives, which is the people's House. He will not succeed in doing so as long as there is breath in my body and my vocal chords will ring out.  His  first attack on me was some years ago when I raised a matter in this Parliament concerning the biggest illegal abortion clinic that ever operated in this countrythe Heather Brae abortion clinic at Bondi. Some 18 months after my mentioning and disclosing this matter in this Parliament- he accused me of doing so under parliamentary privilege- three to five people from this clinic were charged before the criminal court in Sydney and three or four of those people whom I named in my speech in the adjournment debate for which  Mr Alan  Reid criticised me were named in the annual reports of the Commissioner of Taxation for underestimating their illicit income of well over $200,000. That is the type of thing that I have disclosed in this House. 
In his recent article Alan Reid criticised me for bringing up a particular series of matters. He tabbed me as the portrait of a bucket-dropper. He accused me of making unfair allegations about  Mr Gorton.  On my recollection of my allegations about  Mr Gorton  or the questions that I put to  Mr Gorton-  Hansard  will prove me right-  Mr Gorton  would thank me for bringing the matter forward. I believe that that man was threatened with blackmail. That is one of the main reasons why I mentioned the incident concerning him. 
Alan Reid has accused me of making unfair criticism of a solicitor who, in my view, is unscrupulous. Time will tell as to that, if honourable members are not satisfied now. I am referring to a  Mr Danny  Sankey, who launched criminal proceedings against the former Prime Minister of this country - 
Yes.  Mr Alan  Reid said in his recent article that I had made unfair allegations under the privilege of Parliament. Among the unfair allegations, he said, was a suggestion that  Mr Sankey  had a part-ownership in a girlie bar in Sydney. I made those allegations. I stand by the allegations. A certain government department, the identity of which I would not disclose, has on its records information which shows that  Mr Sankey  is a part-owner of the Caprice restaurant at Double Bay. Yesterday an article appeared in the  Daily Mirror  which reads: 
A Sydney solicitor,  Mr Danny  Sankey, is risking a personal fortune to wage one of the most unusual court battles in Australian legal history. 
The article said that it had been estimated that  Mr Sankey  will have to meet an expense of $30,000 to wage a prosecution against the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam),  the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren),  the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  and another former senior Minister of the Whitlam Administration. I come now to an article in yesterday's  Australian,  which refers to a mystery man: 
Adnan Khashoggi described as the biggest middle man in the world, flies into Australia on Friday on board his private Boeing 727 for an undisclosed purpose. 
The 4 1 -year old Arab is the master broker between Saudi Arabia and Western industry and is reported to be worth $100m. 
My information is that this man buys arms which are intended to be used against Israel by certain Arab countries. My information also is- if I am wrong I shall readily get up and apologise- that he is to be entertained at the Caprice restaurant at Double Bay next Friday night. That is the restaurant of which  Mr Danny  Sankey is a part owner. That might well answer from where Danny Sankey is to find $30,000 to meet his legal expenses. 
I do not know. You would know better than 1. 1 do not frequent those places. 
Arab money is probably paying the costs of Danny Sankey. It may come from this multi-millionaire gun runner who is negotiating arms deals. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, the matter I raise tonight has caused me some degree of mental concern over the past few weeks. I would like to think that all honourable members of this national Parliament would believe that the backbone, the richness, the integrity and the honesty of any government depends first and foremost on the integrity of its police force. I have known the former Queensland Police Commissioner,  Mr Whitrod,  for 35 years. 
He is a most honourable man. I served with him in the New South Wales Criminal Investigation Branch when he carried out exchange duty there during the war years from 1943 to 1945. He is a dedicated police officer. He is a scrupulously honest man. He went to Queensland, after serving as Police Commissioner in Papua New Guinea, to serve the Queensland Police Force, the Queensland people and the Queensland Government. He went to Queensland to clean up the evilness which existed in the Queensland Police Force at that time and which continued for many years after he took over. 
-He failed because of a lack of government support. The honourable member can make humour out of something that seriously affects the Queensland people. You are not worthy of being a member here. 
And, with respect,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  you restrain the interjectors. 
Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker. Mr Whitrod  as Police Commissioner was a man of integrity and complete honesty. He tried to reform the Queensland Police Force and bring it to a degree of efficiency comparable with the South Australian Police Force, which is one of the cleanest police forces in Australia. I am in a position to know because I regularly conferred with members of the police forces of the different States of the Commonwealth before I was elected to this Parliament. 

 Mr Whitrod was determined to clean up the Queensland Police Force. He has failed in his objective to serve the Queensland people by developing Queensland's Police Force to a level of efficiency of which the Queensland people would have been proud. He failed as a result of interference by the Queensland Premier who frustrated  Mr Whitrod  's endeavours. On the Cedar Bay incident,  Mr Whitrod  wanted to charge a number of police officers departmentally because of the aggressive attitude they adopted in the course of their investigation. He was frustrated by the Queensland Government in his endeavours to carry out the proper duties of a commissioner of police. He wanted to charge a senior police officer for excessive use of a baton against a woman in the course of a demonstration. Departmental charges were frustrated by the Queensland Government. In utter disgust,  Mr Whitrod  has resigned from the Queensland Police Force. The only people who will suffer to any great extent following his resignation are the people of Queensland as a whole. I served on exchange duty in the Queensland CIB in 1945-46. 1 was able to detect things there, such as men on the same salary as I was being able to spend twice as much as I would spend on recreation. My attention was aroused; I saw that something was radically wrong with the Queensland Police Force, even as far back as the end of the war years. It is very difficult - 
I hear that voice. I remember that voice. I am sure that I chased that voice out of a Sydney toilet late one night. 
Let me say this: I hope that the people of Queensland will stick loyally behind  Mr Whitrod  and bring about the downfall of the Queensland Premier who has interfered unduly with the administration of one of the most honest police commissioners that Australia has ever had. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker I claim to have been misrepresented. With respect to the honourable member for Dawson  (Mr Braithwaite)  I never, by inference or otherwise, denounced  Mr Lewis,  the newly appointed Police Commission in Queensland. I do not know  Mr Lewis.  I spoke with first hand knowledge of the integrity of  Mr Whitrod,  the former Commissioner, and I adhere to every word I said about him. I only wish that members of this chamber were as honourable as former Commissioner Whitrod of the Queensland police. 
My question is to you,  Mr Speaker.  I ask: Are you aware that whilst several honourable members, including myself, were guests of the  President  of the Senate and yourself as Joint Presidents of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association at a dinner in the private dining room in Parliament House in honour of the distinguished delegates from the British Parliament whom we welcomed to the chamber that afternoon, there was being held in another private dining room in Parliament House a party for some Ministers and members of the 'Class of 66 ', at which a birthday cake was produced from which jumped a girl clad in a brief bikini of which the top half was retained only momentarily? I further ask: Is it permissible for honourable members to hold parties of this character in the precincts of the Parliament? What steps do you,  Mr Speaker,  propose to take to restore the dignity of the national Parliament and bring to book those who have sullied it? 
-Last Tuesday night while Government members were still reeling and rolling from the economic blows, reversals and abandonment of policies by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch),  Government back benchers were having a sordid party in the private dining room of Parliament House. It was a 10-year birthday party for those who were elected in 1966. The party reached its climax when a giant birthday cake was wheeled in and out jumped a girl clad in a bikini, the upper half of which was soon doffed. One wonders whether this event could be viewed as the Government's only successful attempt to stimulate the private sector since it came to office 12 months ago. Great latitude is given to members in respect of the guests they sponsor in the galleries, the chamber and the dining room. Never, however, would any member, least of all those with 10 years experience in the Parliament, presume to sponsor a girl in a bikini as a guest in the gallery or in the dining room. 
-These are the bare facts. A cake is not acceptable cover. Members' guests are supposed to enter the dining room openly. This guest was smuggled into the room in a cake. Guests are supposed to be decently clad. A cake is not an adequate covering. 
I am somewhat disappointed,  Mr Speakerand  I anticipate that thousands of Australians will be- at your good self not taking a more serious view. I have already been consulted by 2 Government backbenchers who expressed their disapproval at what happened at this strip tease party in Parliament House on Tuesday night. Whilst the  President  of the Senate and  Mr Speaker  were entertaining, with myself, a visiting British Parliamentary delegation under the auspices of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association in one private dining room, a strip tease party was being held by Government members in another. 
The Australian public has the right to expect a much higher standard of behaviour from its Federal parliamentarians. You,  Mr Speaker,  I feel sure, have the duty to maintain that standard of conduct by the leaders of this nation. Only this week the Government was responsible for the largest devaluation of the Australian currency since the great Depression. It seems that Government supporters are content to see devalued not only the Australian currency but also the standing of Australian womanhood. The revolution that saw the creation of the great nation and republic of the United States of America was sparked by a tea party at Boston over 200 years ago. Perhaps 'Don's tea party' of 1976 will be remembered as the event that hastened the creation of Australia as a republic. 
The economy is in ruins. The Government is in disarray. Nero fiddles while Rome burns. No doubt the Treasurer who, I suspect, attended this august gathering last night in his endeavours to see that all sections of the community receive a fair slice of the national cake, will ensure that no deserving groups will be exposed to rip-offs and strip-offs by members of the Liberal Party. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
How many persons in Tasmania were required to refund to the Commonwealth moneys paid to them under the Regional Employment Development Scheme. 
What are their names, and what are the sums involved in each case. 
Against how many persons were charges laid in respect of moneys fraudulently claimed under the Regional Employment Development Scheme. 

 -Mr Speaker, I ask leave of the House to present the report of the Australian Branch Delegation to the Twentysecond Commonwealth Parliamentary Conference held in Mauritius during September 1976 and to make a statement in connection with that report. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Will he have statistics prepared on the number of questions which Ministers answer without notice and die average time which they take to answer questions corresponding to the statistics produced by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Hansard,  4 November 1976, page 1695). 
asked the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) Do the liquor laws ofthe Northern Territory specify an offence of 'supplying a drunken person with intoxicating liquor'. 
If so, how many licencees have been prosecuted in the Northern Territory for this offence in each ofthe last 5 years. 
What were the penalties, and where did the prosecutions take place. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Does the Film and Television School Act require the Council of the School to prepare and furnish a report of the operations of the School as soon as practicable after the end of each financial year. 
Does the Act require that the Minister shall cause the report to be laid before each House of the Parliament within 1 5 sitting days after receipt by the Minister. 
When did he receive the 1973-74 report of the Film and Television School. 
Did he order the reprinting of the report so that his own name would replace that of the Leader of the Opposition who was Prime Minister during the period covered by the report. 
If so, did this alteration cost taxpayers $2,000; if not, how much did it cost. 
What is the justification for this further delay to the presentation of the report, which, with previous delays, represents a clear violation of the provisions of the Act 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Do figures provided by the Minister for Administrative Services (Senate  Hansard,  6 December 1976, page 2673) and by the former Prime Minister 3 years earlier  (Hansard,  6 December 1 973, page 4467) show that in the first 1 1 months and 1 9 days of the Fraser Government overtime payments to the two senior journalists in the Prime Minister's press office totalled $43,046 compared with $12,816 to the two equivalent officers during the first 1 1 months and 9 days of the Whitlam Government. 
-The House was treated yesterday to a long winded attempt by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  to convince Australians that record levels of unemployment and uncontrolled inflation are indicators of a healthy economy and sound economic management. The Treasurer's statement was a repetitive monologue that could have been written or, more correctly, put together by his staff pasting up old Treasury Press statements. It said nothing about how the Government would reduce unemployment. It said nothing about how inflation could be reduced by a government that applies health taxes, proposes increases in oil prices and fuels inflation by a hasty and unnecessary devaluation of the Australian currency. What a record- and the Treasurer has the gall to refer to substantial progress. To add insult to injury, he suggests- in fact demands- that Australians suffer a dramatic reduction in their disposable incomes and in their standard of living. He said: 
The Government intends, in the period ahead, to press very strongly indeed for a maximum measure of wage restraint. 
Those are his words and his Government's policy. The Australian public is to be forced to finance this Government's second attempt to reduce inflation. But not aU Australians are to be requested to join this ill-conceived crusade. A fortunate few wil reap the benefits of this policy and continue to award themselves generous pay increases. I refer to those friends of the Government who quietly pour hundreds of thousands of dollars into the Liberal Party and National Country Party coffers at every election. I refer to the directors of large public companies. These men constantly brow beat unions and use all their influence to reduce the real wages of their employees, while awarding themselves handsome pay rises. I refer particularly to the directors of Australian Fertilizers Ltd. I have in my hand a letter given to me by one of the shareholders of that company. Shortly I will ask that the letter, which is on Australian Fertilizers Ltd letterhead, and in respect of which I have consulted the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, be incorporated in  Hansard.  At the annual general meeting of the shareholders which was held at 3 o'clock today at North Sydney, the directors sought substantial increases in their fees. The directors of this company will no doubt have received by now an increase of 67 per cent in the total amount of directors' fees paid to the 8 members of the board at a time when most Australians are being asked to accept no increase in their wages, despite raging inflation. This sordid story does not end there. This same company, Australian Fertilizers Ltd, increased the price of bagged superphosphate that it supplies to farmers by $3.40 a tonne on 1 January this year. 
I have the correspondence in my hand. If the honourable member for La Trobe wishes to read the letter I will allow him to do so. If the Government is really committed to wage restraint by all Australians, let it speak out against the unwarranted and blatant abuse of shareholders' funds. But what do we hear? We hear deafening silence. The Government cannot afford to offend the people who keep it on the treasury benches; the men who bankroll its attacks upon the Constitution; the men whom it must repay. They are handsomely rewarded. The Government reintroduced the superphosphate bounty in 1976. This bounty- this gift to companies such as Australian Fertilizers Ltd- will cost the Australian taxpayer $62m in 1976. The same taxpayer now is being asked to accept no increase in wages while the fat cats of industry fiddle while Rome burns. If honourable members opposite fail to raise their voices against this obnoxious and savage increase in the directors' salaries I claim that they are totally unfit and devoid of moral worth and unworthy of representing the Australian people in this national Parliament. I ask that the letter from 
Australian Fertilizers Ltd be incorporated in  Hansard. 
-I direct my question to the Foreign Minister. I ask: Can aliens with criminal records secure permission to enter Australia? What checks are made to ascertain whether aliens who have criminal records have changed their names before they apply to enter Australia? What action does the Government take in cases where previously unknown criminal records or name changes come to notice after the person concerned has entered Australia? 
-! am grateful to the House for allowing me a few minutes. I will not weary it on this subject. I am convinced, as are my parliamentary colleagues in the Aus.tralian Labor Party, that this is a snide attempt by a formerly respected Minister, the Minister for .Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard),  to curb the trade unions of this country. Much has been said about trade unions in this debate. I suppose that I represent an area in which as a small boy trade unionism became very important to me. I would hate to see this legislation pass through this Parliament and receive the royal assent without the withdrawal of the proposal to repeal section 49 of the principal Act. I bitterly condemn the introduction of proposed section 45d. Proposed section 45d is worth repeating. It states: 
An employee of a person -. . . shall not engage in conduct in concert with another person or other persons . . . for the purpose of hindering or preventing the supply of goods or services by the employer to a corporation if the hindering or preventing of the supply of those goods or services by the employer to the corporation would, or would be likely to, have a substantial adverse effect on the business of the corporation. 
This virtually means that trade unionists who breach this proposed section of the Trade Practices Amendment Bill could be fined up to $50,,000. 
I wish briefly to refer to the penalties that were imposed upon the old coal miners on the northern coal fields of the Hunter. The coal miners struggled for years and years until compassionate governments relieved them of their serfdom. I can remember people in my age group going to work in the winter time and, as a result of working a 48-hour week, never seeing daylight until Saturday afternoon. 
I am conversant with the industrial struggles of the north just as the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  is conversant with the great struggles of the shearers in that era. 
-I probably do. It might be my mode of living which has been patterned off the honourable member; honesty of purpose. Some of the old miners of the northern coal fields never got compensation when their fingers were chopped off The Government, by this legislation, is trying to prevent the Australian trade union movement from correcting grievous social injustices. It whips the principle of every Labor man in this nation. 
The honourable member for Evans  (Mr Abel)  proudly said this afternoon that he was an unflinching supporter of the capitalist free enterprise system. The capitalist free enterprise system on this earth is dying and it is dying very hard. It has failed the peoples of the world. The younger members of the Government ought to go to Latin America and have a look at the living conditions of the people which have been created as a result of trade unions being battered into the ground. The revolution in Cuba was brought about as a result of the trade unions being battered into the ground. The coup in Chile was brought about as a result of the trade unions being battered into the ground. The military coups in many of the countries of Latin America, including Brazil, were brought about as a result of the trade unions not being allowed to function properly or to have corrected capitalist injustices. If the Government gets away with this Bill and a series of other exploitations and . union bashings in this country, that will happen here. 
Let me say a few things about what I would have expected some members of -the Government, in fairness, to say about big business and what it is doing today. Not many years after I was first elected to this chamber in 1 960 there was a debate on a Bill which first dealt with restrictive trade practices. The present Chief Justice of the High Court,  Sir Garfield  Barwick, introduced the legislation. We complained then, that the legislation had no teeth, that it was a bulldog with rubber teeth, that it was intendednot to offend big business. At that time some members on this side of the House queried, whether the legislation would curb the actions of the brewery in Victoria which at that time had cut off beer supplies to a hotel in a small country town on the Victorian border because the licensee refused to sell the soft drink products which the brewery demanded that the hotel sell. When the widowed licensee of the hotel said that she had other arrangements by which she would get her soft drinks, the brewery said that she would get no beer from Carlton and United Breweries Ltd. She said: 'Very good. I will get it . from Tooth and Co. Ltd or Tooheys Ltd'. Carlton United had some agreement with Tooth and Tooheys by which she could not get her supplies from them. I think she eventually had to go out of business. 
Honourable members opposite condemn the trade unions for their actions, but they never condemn the actions of big business such as the brewery monopolies. What did  Mr Harry  Alee say at a Press conference quite recently? He virtually displayed the arrogance of a multimillionaire. I quote from the Melbourne  Age: 
Tooth and Co. may close 200 of its 900 hotels if its appeal to the Trade Practices Tribunal on tied hotels is unsuccessful. 
He was virtually threatening the Tribunal. 
Yes, he was in contempt of the Tribunal, as the honourable member for Grayndler reminds me. I quote from an article in the  Australian  of 24 December. It refers to Tooth and Tooheys breweries in New South Wales. The article is headed: 
Brewers told to end ties in 6 months. 
The article stated: 
The Trade Practices Commission yesterday opened the way for all hotels in Australia to sell liquor from any source. 
It did this when it gave NSW brewers Tooth and Tooheys . . . 
For half a century this decision had been wished for. 
-That is right. What happened? The breweries have now taken on the Government and are appealing to the High Court. The lessees of Tooth's hotels in New South Wales are irate because Tooth's brewery will not supply its lessees with its products. The brewery is sending out the products to the retail liquor stores. The lessees are obliged to raise their voices and to approach members of Parliament about the matter because their leases will not be renewed. They have to buy cut price liquor from retail liquor stores. If they are caught by the breweries selling at the price they paid for it, which is virtually at a loss, they are threatened that their lease will be terminated. 
I have other articles before me, but I promised to share my time with another member on this side of the House. The breweries have threatened to foreclose on some of their licensees who have mortgages owing to the breweries. The breweries are threatening to call up the mortgages. When Tooth will not supply the lessees with the products that they want, the lessees still have to pay the heavy rent that is imposed upon them. That is the type of butchery that big business does to its lessees when it has them tied up by a legal contract. The sooner they are free and the sooner the Trade Practices Act takes its proper course in society, the better it will be for society in general. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Do the Health authorities take frequent tests of liquor offered for sale by licensees of liquor houses in the Northern Territory. If so, how often. 
) Have any offences been detected of adulterating liquor by licensees in the Northern Territory; if so; over what period, and what has been the result of these detections. 
Have any prosecutions taken place. If so, what has been the result of these prosecutions, and what penalties have been imposed. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the sum of $500, which was alleged, during committal proceedings in the A.C.T. in 1976 involving a former Minister, to have been handed to a prospective Senate candidate in 1975, now in the custody of the court, the police or any government official. 
2 ) If not, when was it last in the custody of the court or the police or any government official, and when and to whom was it handed over. 
When I came into the House after the suspension of the sitting I enjoyed some of the remarks made by the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman),  a man for whom I have a certain respect as have many members on this side of the House, particularly when he expresses in sincere terms his personal concern for the suffering of the underprivileged people of the world. But then, when speaking about China, he went on to kill his good speech and his image by such references as 'the sham pantomime working relationship of the previous Government'. He went on to say, 'We are prepared to express disagreement with the United States alliance whenever it exists'. A change of wind in Liberal Party thinking has been blowing for some time, since not so many years ago the catchcries of his Party before he came into this House were 'All the way with LBJ' and 'We go a-waltzing Matilda with the  President  of the United States'. The path that was followed then by the Conservatives was none other than to tie Australia to the apron strings of the United States. The United States government and people began to gain more respect for Australia when the Whitlam Administration came to power and expressed a more independent line in foreign policy, particularly in respect of the Vietnam war. The respect of the American governments and the American people started to increase for the Australian nation and its people when the Government of the day said that we were not going to be puppets of the United States. By using phrases of the kind that I have just quoted the honourable member killed what I thought would have been a respectful, appreciated and well worded speech. 
As I have said, the honourable member used the words 'sham pantomime' in respect of the Labor Party's policy on China. I do not know how a man of his intellectual talents and the respect in which he is generally held could sincerely say 'the sham pantomime working policies of the previous Government'. He knows too well, through his superior intellect and training, the benefits of great schooling and the position he holds as a barrister at law that for years it was Labor Party policy that the People's Republic of China should be admitted to the United Nations. He knew for years that if the Labor Party got into power it would immediately recognise the People 's Republic of China. 
This is a strange debate in many respects, particularly when the truth comes out. I remember that after I came to this House in 1 960 abuse was levelled against the People's Republic of China by the Conservatives and the Tories of this country. My old friend the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  whom I respect in many ways and who has just come into this chamber, at one time suggested that Australia should use its influence to drop an atomic bomb on the People's Republic of China. That country for over 30 years fought against the tyranny and exploitation of foreign business and foreign imperialism. The average life expectancy under the old Kuomintang Government was 28 to 30 years. Children born in China had to be sold by the pound in the streets by their mothers. These children were loved by their mothers just as much as white mothers love their children but they had to be sold because their parents could not afford to rear them. They lost thousands of lives in fighting for a new social order, for which we should have applauded them from the day the members of the Mao Tse-tung Government became the people in charge of People's China. The Chinese have managed to dam the Yellow River, which for centuries under the old Kuomintang Government went into flood. They are able to feed their people better today than ever before. Whether it is communism or fascism that achieves these goals, I am prepared to applaud it. I am prepared to applaud governments, irrespective of the political flag they fly, if they can uplift the living standards of their people. 
The honourable member for Kooyong, the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock),  in his speech on foreign policy which we are now debating in this House, 1 1 times in 10 minutes very courteously used the expression 'China'. Only a few years ago the constant remarks were 'the Red barbarians', 'Communist China', 'the Reds of the North' and 'the atheists'. There was a change overnight after the Whitlam Government came into power and recognised People 's China.  Dr Kissinger  did not give the tories of this country prior notice that he was going to People's China to cement good relations and to get the recognition of his own Government of People's China. The Tories were not advised of that visit.  Mr Whitlam  went there and was accepted. He rebuilt the bridges in Asia and in People's China that had been torn down by the privileged and the tories in this country and wherever else they had influence. The Whitlam Administration gained respect throughout the world by rebuilding the bridges that had been torn down by the reactionaries and the tories of this country. 
Jimmy Carter has blown a new breath of change across the world. The tories in this country for years waved a fluttering flag saying that the country was in jeopardy because of the Russian build-up in the Indian Ocean. It was a furphy from beginning to end. I have said that to public audiences that I have had the privilege of addressing and I said it forcefully and sincerely at the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association Conference in Mauritius last year, to the disappointment and hurt, unfortunately, of some of my conservative colleagues who were present at the Conference. I was backed competently and equally sincerely by my colleague, the honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry).  I am pleased to inform this House, if I have not informed it before, that the overwhelming opinion of the countries of the Commonwealth that were represented at the Conference in Mauritius last year was in accordance with the thinking of the 
Whitlam Administration and the Australian Labor Party over many years, namely, that the Indian Ocean should be declared a zone of peace. Now we see the Carter Administration stating its position without previously advising the tories of this Government, pulling the carpet from underneath it, ripping the braces and the elastic from the trousers of the tories of this country and letting their low garments fall to a dangerous point- and we know what is likely to happen then. The tories of this country have had the carpet pulled from under them. 
The Minister for Foreign Affairs, with his dignityhe is a man whom I respect- comes up with the best reply he can produce, but it is the weakest reply. He says that in the Indian Ocean he still supports the build-up of Diego Garcia until the Russians abdicate their base at Berbera in Somalia. The Foreign Minister does not really tell the truth, although he knows it well, namely, that the base at Berbera in Somalia is nothing more than a servicing base. 
Listen to the donkey over there yelling for hay. Berbera is a base over which the Russians have no long term lease. The Somali Government can terminate the Russians' presence at or use of the base at Berbera at a moment's notice. I have said in this Parliament that there was no justification for the Ford Administration spending millions and millions of United States taxpayers' dollars on the build-up of Diego Garcia. There is every hope that the Carter Administration will not go ahead with the plan. My conscience dictates that I remind the Australian people that it was the tory Government which was in power recently that earmarked $80m of Australian taxpayers' money to build the Cockburn Sound naval base. The honourable member for Swan  (Mr Martyr)  always avoids reference to the expenditure on the Cockburn Sound naval base, intended to be built to service and repair American Polaris submarines. 
I am not saying that it is in the honourable member's electorate. He is a Western Australian member and he should be conversant with the amount of public money that is being spent on the Cockburn Sound naval base in Western Australia. 
-The honourable member applauds it. Of course he would. He was a war monger before he came into the Parliament and he will remain a war monger until he goes out, because he has to echo the principles and political philosophies of Lang Hancock, who spent a considerable amount of money in order to bring the honourable member into this Parliament. The Cockburn Sound naval base which is still in the process of construction is to have $80m spent on it. It was intended to bring our warships and submarines and American nuclear submarines in there for repair. I wonder what the Government thinks, now that Jimmy Carter has said- he did not say these words, but he echoed the meaning of them- that the Indian Ocean will become a zone of peace in accordance with the overwhelming wishes of the people of the world and particularly the people who live around the Indian Ocean- the people of Kenya, Tanzania, Malawi, Ceylon and India, which are all countries that belong to the Commonwealth. They have been hoping that one day in the immediate future the Indian Ocean will become a zone of peace. The carpet has been pulled from under the tories by Jimmy Carter, and I hope that Jimmy Carter will continue to follow those principles. I hope that he will be spared for a long time, because it looks as though he is projecting throughout the world a voice which will be appreciated by the world 's people. 
I do not think enough was said by the Foreign Minister in his speech on foreign affairs about the underprivileged and poverty stricken people of the world. The world is hungry for peace. It is more hungry today than it has ever been before, and it looks as though peace may break out. Unfortunately, I cannot see it breaking out when one-quarter of the world's people are going to bed at night hungry. In my view, peace cannot have a solid and lasting foundation if it is built in the circumstances of the great inequalities which exist in Latin America and on the African continent today. It cannot be built among inequalities and injustices in a world where transport, communications and technology bring mankind closer and closer together. Great differences in standards of living become intolerable. Peace is indivisible in the world, but so is prosperity. The General Assembly of the United Nations once more is seized of these problems, and we all hope that it will come forward with new solutions. 
I hope that the Timorese or Fretilin will achieve independence for Timor in the immediate future. I pay great tribute to Jim Dunn, a public servant who has had enough courage to go to the United States and give evidence before an important committee. I also applaud the spirit of the honourable member for Fraser, who has fought unflinchingly and made known in the forums in which he has spoken in this country and outside the country the plight of the Timorese people. For centuries they were under neo-fascist Portugese rule and, when it looked as though they would gain independence for the first time in history, they were dominated by the military junta of Indonesia. If there is a semblance of decency in any member of Parliament in this House he should raise his voice and speak up against the butchering that is taking place in Timor at this time. 
-The Speech of  Her  Majesty, which foreshadowed Government activities and policy for the remainder of the Government's term of office, has disappointed most honourable members on this side of the House, not because of any lack of respect for  Her  Majesty but because the Speech is a dismal document produced by the Government. The Fraser Government is in a deep dilemma. Things have not turned out as it expected. During the short time in which I have the privilege to address the House I intend to point out some of the inconsistencies in the Government's policies. The Government claimed when it came to power that it principal objectives were to overcome inflation and unemployment. It accused the Whitlam Administration of being responsible for them when unemployment and inflation constituted a disease that had enveloped the Western world, created in the main by the financial policies and the activities of multinational corporations that operate so freely in the Western world without governments being able or wanting to take the necessary action to curb their activities. 
Let me point to some of the remarks of the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  prior to coming to office and after he came to office. In his election policy speech on 27 November 1975 the Prime Minister said that the principal objectives of overriding concern to the Liberal-National Country Party Government would be to create new jobs and control inflation. Since that date general unemployment has risen by 33 per cent, youth unemployment by 87 per cent, Aborigine unemployment by 50 per cent, and female unemployment by 45 per cent. The underlying rate of inflation is now increasing to over 12 per cent per annum. Will the Prime Minister assert, as the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  did last Friday, that these figures reflect the success of the Government's policies and that the high unemployment and high inflation are indicators of a satisfactory economic recovery? 
I have a copy of a Press statement issued by the Prime Minister on 1 October 1975. He said that the Opposition would delay Supply in the Senate. Whilst not wishing to hark back to the events of 1 1 November it may be useful to refer to the criteria which the Prime Minister enunciated as the reasons why Labor should go to the people. He said: 
We have the highest unemployment since the Depression. In January 1977, over the 12 months after the Fraser Government came to office, the number of persons registered as unemployed reached 334 589 or 5.8 per cent of the estimated work force- the highest level of unemployment since the Great Depression. The Prime Minister was the man who went into power to cure unemployment and inflation. He also stated: 
This is the worst prolonged inflation in history. 
In its first year in office, in the March to December quarters of 1976, the Fraser Government presided over a 13.7 per cent rate of inflation. The 6 per cent increase in the December quarter consumer price index is the highest since the December quarter of 1951. It is inevitable that inflation will increase to record levels in 1977 as the effects of the hasty devaluation flow on into higher prices for goods and services. 
The Prime Minister also said: 
School leavers will no longer be able to get jobs. 
In January 1977 there were 155 944 young people under the age of 2 1 who were registered as unemployed with the Commonwealth Employment Service. When Labor was last in power, in October 1975, there were only 87 762 young people unemployed. Youth unemployment has increased by 78 per cent under the Fraser Administration. The Government's only substantial response to this problem has been the Youth Employment Subsidy Scheme, which will assist only 4000 young people with jobs out of a total of 1 5 5 944 young unemployed. This is a disgraceful and deceitful example of the performance of a government which claimed that it was coming into office to clean up the unemployment mess allegedly left by the Whitlam Administration. A lucky 0.03 per cent will gain employment from the subsidy scheme for a limited period as a result of the Government's grudging generosity. 
The Prime Minister said in his election policy speech: 
The savings of the retired are being destroyed. 
He was referring to superannuitants and pensioners. The rampant inflation that will overtake Australia in the next 12 months because of this Government's economic policies will strike hardest at those on fixed incomes. To use  Mr Fraser's  own words, 'those least able to defend themselves will suffer needlessly'. Small businessmen are seeing their life's savings being wiped out as a result of the Fraser administration. The Labor Party when in power under the leadership of  Mr Whitlam  was frequently accused of creating unlimited bankruptcies throughout Australia. Let me cite to the House some of the figures concerning the number of persons who went bankrupt during the LiberalNational Country Party administration prior to the Whitlam Government coming to office. Labor was accused of sending small businesses to the wall, yet under the McMahon Government Australia saw the highest level in bankruptcies in the last 5 years or 6 years. In 1972, 1685 businesses went bankrupt. That number included 975 personal bankrupts. Almost certainly the Fraser Government will create more bankruptcies than occurred during the McMahon administration. In my view, it will send more small businessmen to the wall than the McMahon Government ever did. This Government, as a result of its mismanagement of this country, should give serious consideration to resigning and going back to the people. 

 Mr Fraser is on record as saying: 
The Labor Government 1972-75 has been the most incompetent and disastrous government in the history of Australia. Although Australia has basically one of the strongest and healthiest economies in the world, in 3 years this has been brought to the brink of disaster by incompetence of the worst kind. 
Without reason or excuse the weakest sections of our communitythose least able to defend themselves- have suffered needlessly. 
Under the Fraser administration we now have the highest unemployment since the great Depression of the 1 930s and the worst prolonged inflation rate in our history. School leavers will not be able to get jobs in the foreseeable or distant future. Young people can no longer afford to buy a home because of inflationary costs. The savings of the retired are being destroyed and small businessmen are seeing their life's work wiped out when they were looking forward to a healthy retirement. This cannot be allowed to continue. 
Government's Budget is an admitted failure. It has failed on 2 counts. The Budget is based on a total deficit of $2.8 billion which is already estimated to be over $3.5 billion. By the end of the financial year it could be over $4 billion and the Treasurer is not concerned with this fact. Is it any wonder that his family wants him to retire from political life? On the second count the Government has already announced that unemployment will rise to over 400 000 by the end of the year. The trade union movement has foreshadowed the possibility of 700 000 people being unemployed towards the end of 1977. If the Government is sincere enough to admit that there will be over 400 000 people unemployed in the immediate future, what an admission of the Budget's failure by the ones who are responsible and who claimed prior to coming to power, that they would overcome these sorts of problems. On top of all this the Government has shown itself to be incapable of behaving with propriety. The Prime Minister has shown himself to be incapable of setting and enforcing decent standards of behaviour for his Government. The Prime Minister, when Leader of the Opposition, stated: 
The disgraceful conduct of the Government over the loans affair follows a long record of scandals involving relations of Ministers, political appointments and attempts to evade the Constitution itself. 
In just 3 years nine of the Government's senior Ministers have either resigned, been dismissed or demoted because of incompetence or impropriety, including 2 men who were Acting Prime Minister when  Mr Whitlam  was out of the country. They are people  Mr Whitlam  now says he cannot trust. 

 Mr Fraser went on with these wicked accusations, yet he has in his own Party men holding responsible positions. I refer to the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume),  a man who would have you believe that he is a decent family man. He well might meet his responsibilities in that regard but as has recently been pointed out he is the man who was involved in a scandal in connection with Patrick Partners which is under a cloud of dishonesty and deceit so far as its shareholders are concerned. He should consider in accordance with the Westminster system resigning until the matter is cleaned up. 
It has not been cleaned up- not according to Masterman's report. I refer also to an honourable member from Western Australia who was once a shadow Minister climbing up the political tree again. He is now responsible for the administration of an important Government committee. 
You would not like to have been involved in the scandal. Do you condone bribery? I hope you do not. You will lose my respect if you do. 
-He was acquitted? 
He was not. He was found not guilty. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member for Hunter, in responding to an interjection by the honourable member for Denison, phrased his reply in a way that could be regarded as being a reflection upon a decision of a court. In those circumstances I ask the honourable member for Hunter to withdraw the comment which was made in response to an interjection which was out of order. As the interjection has been recorded I ask the honourable member for Hunter to withdraw the comment that the honourable member concerned had not been acquitted. I ask the honourable member for Hunter to withdraw that part of the remark. 
-I withdraw that part of the remark. The honourable member for Curtin was found legally not guilty. But thousands of people hold an alternative view. 
I am not a muck raker. You cannot afford to - 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I am grateful to you and to honourable members of this House because what I am submitting in resuming my speech on the adjournment debate I think would be of deep concern to every Australian. The Bartons and  Mrs Barton  senior have all given evidence. 
I repeat that the Bartons and  Mrs Barton  senior have all given evidence that it was Gruzman who gave them the advice to go to Brazil to evade the jurisdiction of the New South Wales law authorities. I suggest that if, as alleged, the Bartons were engaged in a conspiracy, then Gruzman was a very active participant in that conspiracy and should be charged with them. How long must Australians suffer the lack of adequate companies and securities legislationlegislation that would prevent men such as  Mr Gruzman,  the Bartons and the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume)  abusing the public trust? Despite the overwhelming evidence of the Masterman report that the honourable member - 
I withdraw the words' 'abusing the public trust' and I substitute the words arousing the interest of the public trust'. Despite the overwhelming evidence - 
-I withdraw,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  Despite the overwhelming evidence of the Materman report that a member of this House was a member of Patrick Partners when it collapsed, that member continues to deny in this place his liability and complicity. 
-Some time ago I asked questions in this House regarding Laurence Charles Gruzman, Q.C. He challenged me to prove the truth of these allegations regarding his activities on behalf of the Bartons and threatened to take legal action against me if I repeated the allegations outside the Parliament. Unfortunately for  Mr Gruzman  I am not a man who is afraid to reveal the truth. He tried to bluff me. I will not be moved. Now I propose to prove the truth of my allegations. Firstly, I shall lay on the table of the House a photostat copy of an agreement between Gruzman and the Bartons. It is in Gruzman 's own handwriting and signed by the Bartons and initialled by Gruzman. Gruzman is a prominent member of the legal profession in New South Wales, of which the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  is a distinguished member. 
On their return to Australia on 8 January 1977 the Bartons prepared and signed an affidavit regarding their association with Gruzman. The first clause stated that they should agree to pay him a fee of $70,000 a year for a period of  1  years to act as their legal adviser. The second clause stated that they should agree to give Gruzman or his nominee an option for 70 000 shares in Intercontinental Corporation Limited for 3 years at a rate a long way below the current market value for Intercontinental. Intercontinental was the real estate and property base for the Barton operations. It included considerable real estate holdings on the Sydney North Shore. The agreement also provided that the Bartons would transfer 150 000 shares in Intercontinental to Gruzman with all the capital required being provided by the Bartons. I suggest that this proves that Gruzman was mainly interested in getting his hands on what he considered to be his share of the loot from the Bartons' manipulations. I further suggest that it proves that Gruzman was engaged in legal extortion from the Bartons. 
Barton said that in May 1973 he met Gruzman who was accompanied by  Sir Arthur  T. George in Zurich, Switzerland. An amount of $288,000 was transferred by the Bartons to the order of a Swiss bank account named 'L. Charles, a pilot'. I suggest that this account was the property of Gruzman and that he used part of these proceeds to establish the Merimbula Flying School Ltd and also to bid for the Airfast group, a transaction that was reported in today's  Australian Financial Review.  In May 1974 Gruzman, accompanied by another Sydney Queen's Counsel,  Mr L.  J. Priestly, visited the Bartons in Brazilia. The Bartons told them that they had decided to return to Australia and face the charges against them. 
-The Bartons told the 2 barristers that they had decided to return to Australia to face the charges against them. They said they gave Gruzman instructions to approach the New South Wales Government. Gruzman said: 'Stay calm. Don't get excited'. He told them to await the decision of their Privy Council appeal which would take only two or three weeks. Gruzman made no attempt to contact the New South Wales Government. In January 1976 Barton had a conference in Paraguay with Priestley Q.C. regarding extradition proceedings in that country. The Bartons and  Mrs Barton  senior have all given evidence that it was Gruzman who gave them the advice to go to Brazil to evade the jurisdiction of the New South Wales law authorities. I suggest that if, as alleged, the Bartons were engaged - 
The Bartons and  Mrs Barton  - 
I do not intend to engage the House for more than 2 minutes unless I am interrupted. 
I want to read into the  Hansard  record the text of an agreement signed by  Mr Laurence  Gruzman, Q.C, and Alexander Barton before Alexander Barton and his son were advised by  Mr Gruzman,  their then advising barrister, to leave the country. The agreement provides the following for  Mr Gruzman: 
1 ) Option for 700 000 shares Intercontinential at 40c for 3 years to L.G. or nominee. 
2 ) Transfer 1 50 000 shares to L.G. or nominee. 
3 ) All capital provided by B. 
This refers to the Bartons. 
4) $A70,000 p.a. to L.G. or nominee from Coys. 
The initials ' L.G. ' refer to Laurence Gruzman. 
All business in which L.G. or A.B. interested to go into Intercontinental or its subsidiaries. 
The initials A.B. refer to Alexander Barton. 
Brins is 75 per cent B's to 25 per cent G's. 
The agreement was signed by A. Barton and L. Gruzman and was witnessed by Thomas Barton. I have a copy of that agreement in the handwriting of  Mr Gruzman  for any honourable member to see. 
I join in this debate because I have been interested for some years in Australian mercenaries fighting in overseas wars. The honourable member for Holt  (Mr Yates)  expresses lack of keenness or enthusiasm in the legislation. On the other hand the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Birney)  expresses the same indignation as I about mercenaries who he agrees are nothing more than hired killers. I believe that the Government is not keen and enthusiastic about this legislation. I believe that the Government is introducing this legislation for the purpose of permitting it to hold its head a little higher in international forums so that it can say: But we in Australia have legislated. We will not be a party to allowing Australians to fight as mercenaries in overseas wars'. 
Why is the Government doing this? In my view it is for two or three particular reasons. Firstly, it knows- I would have expected the honourable member for Holt to have mentioned it- the embarrassment that the British Government suffered recently when four or five of its nationals were tried and sentenced to death for fighting as mercenaries on the wrong side in Angola. I believe that the second reason that the Government is introducing this legislation is to prevent a possible increase in the number of Australians fighting as mercenaries in the civil war in Rhodesia as time goes on. I believe that the third reason that the Government has introduced this legislation is so that it can say to the Government of Yugoslavia and Yugoslavs in Australia that we are introducing legislation to prevent people originally from Yugoslavia going there and fighting against the Government of Yugoslavia. I believe they are the principal reasons why the Government has introduced this legislation. 
I want to prove further the inconsistency of the Government and the lack of sincerity on the Government's part in this regard. In 1970, when many honourable members on the Government side today were not in the Parliament, including the present Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott),  I pointed out, I believe with overwhelming evidence, that the Australian Government was supporting mercenaries and financially backing them to participate in conflicts in other countries, in Laos and Cambodia at the time of the Vietnam war that we all remember. I remind the House that in 1970 I asked this question of the then Minister for the Army, the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock): 
Can the Minister for the Army say whether the Australian Government has any knowledge of the suggestion reported in the  Cessnock Eagle  of 6 March - 
That was in 1970- and elsewhere concerning Australian soldiers serving as mercenaries in Laos? Has the Government co-operated in any way in having Australian soldiers, either before or after discharge, serve as mercenaries in Laos? 
The then Minister for the Army, the honourable member for Kooyong,  Mr Peacock,  said in answer 
I have not seen the report referred to by the honourable gentleman and I would not wish to make a comment until he had forwarded it to me. I would be obliged if he would do so and I would be prepared then to give him an answer. 
I supplied the then Minister for the Army, the honourable member for Kooyong, with a copy of a leading article in the  Cessnock Eagle-  an insignificant newspaper but not written by an insignificant man. The article was written by a very dedicated, high principled Australian journalist who was at that time working for the  Cessnock Eagle.  He pointed out in his leading article that he had attended with another Australian journalist the Zambesi Club in London and interviewed a good number of Australians who were outspoken. They said that they were offering themselves as mercenaries, that they were going to fight for a quid and that they were supported financially be the Austraiian Government. I believe that statement to be true. Here is a complete about face by the Tories of this country. I might say that I never got a reply from the Minister for the Army. I went on to point out that the Minister said that he was not aware of the report in the newspaper to which I had referred and asked me for a copy of it. I immediately obliged him. The article went on to allege that the Australian Government for the past 2 to 3 years had men involved in the war in Laos and that it would probably deny this emphatically. The article alleged further that it was well known among foreign correspondents and military commentators that mercenary troops had been working in Laos for the past few years. Most of the troops were either New Zealanders, Australians or South Africans. The article stated that when on leave these mercenaries hang out in the tenement flats of Earl's Court, London, waiting for their next job. They spent much of their time at the Zambesi Club and were ready to talk to sympathetic looking journalists. The soldiers regarded themselves as soldiers fighting for a cause which gave them no reward except money. They stated that they were well and truly covered by a comprehensive insurance scheme and that when one of them had his brains blown out his family was well cared for. The article stated that they resented the nasty publicity they received in Nigeria and the Congo. 
They were interviewed by 2 young and forthright Australian journalists whom I shall name. One was Kenneth Brass, formerly of the  Sydney Morning Herald  in London and now believed to be with the  London Daily Mail.  The other was a young journalist, Brian Hungerford, who held an important post in the United Nations. Those 2 journalists interviewed the mercenaries at the Zambesi Club at Earl's Court. The soldiers stated that they were New Zealanders, South Africans and Australians. They said that they were financed in part by the Australian Government to carry out their operations. 
-The previous Government in 1 970 which held similar political principles to the ones held today by this Government- by the Tories of this country. 
-That would be the McMahon Government. The soldiers said that they were financed in part by the Australian Government to carry out their operations. They complained of being treated as thugs and murderers on their return to England. One soldier, believed to be an Australian, was reported as having said: 
We are just soldiers. We have the same problems other soldiers have. We are only fighting boongs, but boongs with rifles are dangerous. 
That is a disgraceful statement. 
Yes. The mercenaries said these things at the interview by Brass and Brian Hungerford. One of them said 
All the dirty work we do. See, we can get in when the normal uniform troops cannot make it. That's why some of our boys are in Laos. The Aussie or the United States Governments can't send in ordinary troops wearing uniforms. All the coons would start screaming in the United Nations about intervention and neutrality and all that. 
I put it to the Attorney-General: Has not that statement got a true ring to it? Does not that statement as quoted sound as if it came from the mouth of a forthright Australian mercenary at Earl's Court in London when interviewed by Brian Hungerford, a forthright young Australian journalist? 
Yes, and they were backed at the time by the Tories of this country. There was no denial of it when I alleged it in the Parliament in 1970. The journalist reported one of the mercenaries as having said: 
We've lost a few of our blokes around the Vietnam border. The bloody Chinks keep crossing over to get around the back of the Yanks. It's our job to keep them occupied all the time. We do too, but we get no thanks for it. Our top man is Colonel Peters. We all reckon he is a great man. 
I went on to inform the House that Colonel Peters was a retired former high-ranking British soldier. He is alleged to have played a part in recruiting mercenaries to fight in the Congo and Laos and in Nigeria prior to the ending of the wars there. He is credited with recruiting most of these mercenaries in Johannesburg. Colonel Peters was alleged by one of the mercenaries to be a man of high ideals about the world. The soldier told the journalist: 
He doesn't want the boongs or the Commos to take over and he's prepared to go to any lengths to back his ideals. One of our brigades in the Congo got rid of 1000 boongs in one day. We bloody soon settled the nasty little situation there. 
The Government did nothing about it. The climate then was that we were backing American foreign policy. Since 1970 when I brought this matter before the House there has been somewhat of a change. It was reported to the Australian journalist to whom I have referred that this organisation which was recruiting mercenaries in London, including a good number of Australians, bought a terrace of nouses in which 300 Australian, New Zealand and South African mercenary soldiers were to be domiciled when in London on leave. As I have said, this interview took place with twelve or more mercenary soldiers at the Zambesi Club in Earl's Court in London. The man who gave most of this information was an Australian soldier who had done 2 years' Army service and who had become restless. The resultant interview to which I have referred was reported in the United Kingdom Press. It is a wonder that the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Yates),  if he was in England at that time, did not read of it because he was an enthusiastic practising politician or an enthusiastic political student at that time. If he was in England at the time one would think that he would recall reading the article, in a debate of this nature now before this House. 
If the honourable gentleman were listening to me he would have known who told me. Brian Hungerford told me and I read the article in the  Cessnock Eagle.  I brought the matter before the House. 
-Yes. A Baillieu laughs. His dignity would not let him read the coal miners' cause- the  Cessnock Eagle.  Oh, no! However, the article was printed in the United Kingdom Press and it was broadcast by the British Broadcasting Commission. It surprised many British people. They learned that the Australian Government was paying professional mercenary soldiers to do dirty work. The Australian mercenaries were proud of their achievement and profession and what they were doing on behalf of the Australian Government, the article in the British Press said, though they regretted that the ordinary campaign medals associated with normal military adventures were not for them. Yet the United States and Australian governments claimed at the time that they were not involved in the war in Laos. If this article and these allegations of Hungerford 's had been untrue, one would have expected a responsible Minister in  Mr McMahon's  Government at the time to deny in the British Press that the Australian Government was subsidising mercenaries to carry out the duties which were alleged by those 2 forthright Australian journalists. 
-I know I am not telling a lie. I know the consequences of lying to this Parliament. I have never told a lie since I have been a member. 
-I am not telling a he. You ignored it. You never thought the day would come when the matter would be revived. 
I recall some of the remarks of the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Groom).  If my memory serves me correctly, he spoke of fighting for an international brigade. He made some reference to the Spanish Civil War. He mentioned Franco's name. Franco was fighting against the Spanish Government. If it had not been for outside intervention, the Spanish people would not have suffered for almost 30 years the oppressive fascist rule of the Franco Government. Mercenaries actually contributed to the installation of the fascist regime in Spain which oppressed those people for so long. Many lives were lost under the Franco regime. 
It is not conscience that is causing the Government to bring forward this legislation. It is not principle that is causing the Government to bring forward this legislation. The Government is bringing forward this legislation so that it can say in the forums of the world that it objects to mercenaries from Australia participating in foreign wars. I do not think the legislation goes far enough, as was said by speakers on this side of the House, particularly the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  Does the legislation suggest that any person who leaves Australia and enlists as a mercenary in a foreign country, as Australians were doing at the Zambesi Club at Earls Court in London, is guilty of an offence? Can this legislation do anything to prevent Australians from going overseas and enlisting as mercenaries? Can it take their passports off them? 
-Can it? It certainly should. The tories saw fit to take Wilfred Burchett 's passport off him when he wanted to come back and see his dying 80-year-old father. Burchett was a freelance journalist. The tories prevented him from coming back to Australia by not reissuing a passport to him. They allowed mercenaries to fight in Laos, Cambodia, Nigeria and elsewhere on the African continent. If they had been doing their job in 1970, they would have established the identity of these mercenaries and would have passed legislation not in 1977 but immediately it was brought to the notice of the House that Australian mercenaries were being backed by the Australian Government to fight in foreign wars. So it is not to their credit and it is not with sincerity that they are bringing this legislation before the Parliament now. I get no joy out of making that allegation against the sidestepping Attorney-General, who probably is a better lawyer than he is a sidestepper when eggs are thrown at him. I believe that the time to introduce this legislation was 1970, when it was first brought to the notice of honourable members opposite that Australians were fighting as mercenaries, allegedly backed financially by the Australian Government. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Health. I refer him to page 2 of today's  Australian Financial Review.  I also refer him to section 53a of the Trade Practices Act which prohibits false representations with respect to quality, grade, style or model. I ask him: How long ago was the picture in the newspaper taken? Will he undertake to supply newspapers with a more recent photograph so that he can comply with the spirit of the legislation? Does he not think that he is improving with age? 
I ask the Prime Minister whether he recalls that, prior to the Whitlam Government's referendum proposals on price control in 1973, he stated publicly: 
Price controls . . . would inhibit growth, enterprise and private initiative. Such controls would do much to hamper the economy. They will stop the initiative of small industries and will probably gravely damage decentralisation. 
Does the right honourable gentleman still hold to that view? 
It is a pity that the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil ) did not give the facts of the matter about which he has just spoken. I would have liked him to refer to the opinion of Mr George Polites, who advocated a national conference in connection with the Government's intended wages and prices freeze. Why did the honourable member for St George- purposefully no doubt; he is not a fool- avoid expressing the opinion of Mr Polites to the House? Why did the honourable member purposefully avoid expressing the opinions of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, which commended the idea that there should be a national conference as advocated by Mr Hawke? I wonder why the honourable member for St George, who comes here supposedly possessing the quality of integrity, did not mention that Mr Bjelke-Petersen advocated substantial tax deductions. 
I can understand the honourable member for Macarthur asking such a question. He has a tremendous load on his mind and I do not think he knows who his Prime Minister is. I hope that for the sake of his family he is relieved of his load very soon. I think he will do the right thing, due to the cloud that is hanging over his head and resign and have Macarthur recontested.  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  advocated tax cuts. If a national conference was called all of this would come up for discussion. The honourable member for St George deliberately refrained from mentioning these facts. 
The Government has stepped into something it cannot get out of. It cannot extricate itself from its difficulties. It made a sudden decision that will not work. It wants the Arbitration Commission to impose restrictions on wages but it wants the money bags voluntarily to agree to suppress prices. But they will not do this. A representative from the Leyland organisation told the Government that he was not prepared to do this. He made a Press statement that  Mr Fraser  could go to hell and that he was going to increase the price of Leyland cars. 
My purpose in rising tonight is to somewhat put the record straight in this Parliament in connection with the repeated accusations of the supposed gigantic Soviet naval base in Somalia in the Indian Ocean. I notice that the skilled Foreign Minister  (Mr Peacock)  is careful not to put emphasis on the alleged gigantic base of the Russians in the Indian Ocean. But only a few days ago a document came into my possession which I believe gives a fair picture of the Russian presence in the Indian Ocean. As a result of the allegations that Russia was involved in a gigantic build-up in the Indian Ocean, the Soviet Union, through the Somali Government, invited some United States legislators to inspect the base in Somalia. They went there to see for themselves. The report says: 
The senators could find no facilities for the servicing and storage of sophisticated cruise missiles. 
-You are not prepared to inform your mind. You are biased and warped, a militarist. The report continues: 

 Senator Dewey Bartlett saw only some ancient ( 1959 vintage) Styx missiles of 48 kilometre range- and indeed the Pentagon had already admitted that this was all that was there. Lots of navies besides the Soviet Navy have Styx missilesincluding those of India, Iran and Egypt. 
I believe that it ill becomes any member of this Parliament to tell lies about a friendly power such as the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, a nation with which Australia conducts trade. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-My question is directed to the Prime Minister. I ask: When did the Deputy Prime Minister tell him that he had offered Richard Lee Stallings a job? Did the Deputy Prime Minister tell him that Richard Lee Stallings was an employee of the United States Central Intelligence Agency? If so, was this before or after the Deputy Prime Minister's personal explanation to the House on 4 November 1975 in which he said: if he  - 
That is Stallings -  was a member of the CIA I certainly did not know he was. 
I ask the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs whether he was informed on 1 1 March last that an estimated 80 per cent of Aborigines at Maningrida in the Northern Territory had contracted syphilis. Can he inform the House whether this very disturbing report is accurate? What action has he or the Minister for Health taken to alleviate this appalling situation? Can he also assure the House that the national trachoma and eye health program sponsored by the Australian College of Ophthalmologists will not be obstructed by the Queensland Government in attempting to reduce the very high incidence of eye diseases amongst Aborigines? 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 28 April 1977: 
In accordance with his Government's policy of requiring significant gifts to Ministers to be disclosed and valued  (Hansard,  20 April 1977, page 1076), has he had an independent valuation made of the diamond and sapphire necklace and the diamond bracelet worth S 10,000 and $6,000 respectively which, according to the Albury  Border Morning Mail  of 8 June 1971, were given to the wife of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Hansard,  28 October 1975, pages2512 and 2517). 
-I think that it ill becomes the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  to describe the people who demonstrate against the mining of uranium as professional bludgers. I hope that one day the honourable member will have his conscience pricked and feel some remorse in his heart for having used those words. I have a great deal of admiration for the people who demonstrate against this issue. I believe that they show true affection for their fellow man and the human race. I remind honourable members that the late  President  Kennedy used these words not long before his demise: 
Man has at his disposal the facilities to make this world the best in the history of mankind or he has the means of its total destruction. 
That is what concerns the demonstrators whom the honourable member for Kennedy has described as professional bludgers. They are people who are interested in the welfare of mankind and in the preservation of this planet. Atomic weapons are becoming the growing concern of more and more people as they learn about and interest themselves in the mining of uranium and the purposes for which some countries may ultimately use the uranium.  President  Kennedy is on record also as saying: 
Never have the nations of the world had so much to lose or so much to gain. Together we shall save our planet or together we shall perish in its flames. Save it we can and save it we must and then shall we earn the eternal thanks of mankind and, as peacemakers, the eternal blessing of God. 
That was the concern of the late  President  Jack Kennedy. That should be the deep concern of every member of this House. There is no cause for describing those who express their concern as to what might happen with the reckless, indifferent mining of uranium, which they do not want to see take place, as professional bludgers, as the honourable member for Kennedy did. The Western world is playing with a commodity when it does not know the full extent of its effects on future generations. 
Yes. I remember attending a lecture some years ago by Professor Linus Pauling, who had the backing of some ten or twelve nuclear physicists in the United States. He pointed out in one of his lectures that some 10 000 young people between the ages of 7 and 12 years had died in the United States of leukaemia and that it was believed that these deaths had been brought about by the testing of atomic weapons in the atmosphere by the United States before it was agreed- 
If you continue to interject I will have to deal with you and I do not want to hurt your feelings. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The House will come to order. 
That happened before the United States agreed to outlaw testing in the atmosphere. The son of  Senator Edward  Kennedy had to have one of his legs removed at a very tender age because of leukaemia. I have often wondered whether that was the result of the atomic testing that occurred in the atmosphere some years ago before the great powers agreed to the outlawing of such testing. Members of Parliament and society today have a big responsibility to protect the unborn children, otherwise we could bring about a race of zombies in the generations to come. 
MrCotter-Ha, ha! 
You are laughing like one over there. You remind me of a zombie by the way in which you laugh. I think you might be suffering from the effects of strontium 90, too. 
It should be within the knowledge of honourable members that, in the aftermath of the dropping of atom bombs on Nagasaki and Hiroshima, Japanese women were giving birth to malformed children, as the statistics of the Japanese Government show. It is the inherent right and desire of every decent woman to reproduce. The girls of Nagasaki and Hiroshima went to other parts of Japan in anticipation of marrying and when it was learned that they had come from Nakasaki and Hiroshima they had great difficulty in being accepted because the statistics in Japan were showing up the malformation of young children. It was suspected that this was the result of the bombs being dropped on Nagasaki and Hiroshima. 
I have some degree of respect for the Women's Electoral Lobby, which has dedicated itself to expressing concern about the reckless mining of uranium being allowed to continue. I applaud that organisation for its enthusiasm and enlightenment of society in general as to the effects of the mining of uranium if it is allowed to be done recklessly. Occasionally we hear the argument being put by supporters of the Government that we could become one of the richest countries in the Western world and that our foreign exchange earnings would be improved markedly if we produced enriched uranium and exported it. 
It is not so long ago that I attended a screening in this building of a documentary film on the life of Wilberforce M.P. in the Pitt Government in the United Kingdom about 1850. It was about the agitation by Wilberforce for the abolition of the slave trade and Britain's participation in the slave trade. The same arguments were raised then about the unemployment it would create in relation to the building of ships, about the ships ' crews being retrenched and about the foreign exchange that was being brought into Britain by its major participation in the slave trade. It was said then that underneath the decks of the ships there was valuable cargo. It should be recalled that Wilberforce made between five and seven attempts before getting his Bill through the House of Commons nearly 200 years ago.  His  attempts were frustrated because of the foreign exchange earnings. A similar argument is being put up here today by those who believe in the non-curtailment of the production of uranium. 
I believe in the preservation of the human race, which apparently you do not. You put wealth before the welfare of the people. 
Only a few hundred jobs are involved in uranium mining. 
It is capital intensive. I have learned through the years that wherever money and morals clash money eventually survives. One only has to recall the case of a wellknown drug company in West Germany that got writers, eloquent people and academics to advocate the sale of thalidomide before it produced that drug. The drug was supposed to be harmless to the human race. Money was put into the campaign to convince the public that the drug was harmless to human beings. This shocking scandal resulted in the drug company having to pay back millions of dollars in compensation to the unfortunate children who were born with defects as a result of the drug. That is what I mean when I say the power of money eventually survives in the Western world capitalist system. 
The Acting Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  at one time believed in stricter controls for the mining and export of uranium. But since he went around the world apparently he has been cushioned to take a more tolerant view. I am proud of the Labor Party's stance on this issue. We are very concerned about this matter. History shows that the Labor Party has always been concerned about the welfare of people in preference to money. I sincerely hope that the Australian people will take a greater interest in the mining and export of uranium because it is of major interest to the people of the world. In conclusion I want to quote something that was said by a famous American lady some time ago. She said that the people of the world are not as interested in the welfare of their fellow-man as they should be. 
-She was referring to uranium, too.  Mrs Pearl  Buck, a prominent United States woman, said: 
It is ironical that in an age when we have prided ourselves on our progress in the intelligent care of teaching of our children we have at the same time put them at the mercy of new and most terrible weapons of destruction. 
This is what concerns me and should concern every thinking Australian. If honourable members opposite do not protect future generations with the normal and tight safeguards in respect of the mining and export of uranium they do not deserve to occupy the government benches of this country. 
It has been prevailed upon me to raise in the Parliament a matter concerning a very enterprising businessman in Sydney whom I have known for many years. I refer to  Mr Norman  Mitchell, who lives at Pennant Hills. He has a small pony stud farm at Glenorie. In 1972  Mr Mitchell  imported three or four miniature ponies. They are known as Falabella ponies. They originated in Argentina 150 years ago. These ponies grow to a height of 36 inches and a maximum weight of 120 lb.  Mr Mitchell,  being a horse lover, as was his late father, brought in these horses at a cost of about $10,000. They were in quarantine in England for 12 months. 

 Mr Mitchell is virtually at bursting point now because the Royal Agricultural Society will not give the horse a classification and therefore he cannot exhibit them at its shows. The Australian Pony Stud Book Society will not give them a classification and will not allow them to be registered. That seems to me to be unfair treatment of this decent, enterprising Australian because these horses are recognised in many parts of the world and are exhibited at shows and horse gymkhanas. In Australia the show authorities take an opposite view and will not give them a class.sification. I have before me correspondence between  Mr Mitchell  and the Australian Pony Stud Book Society. In a letter that the Society wrote to  Mr Mitchell  it said: 
I regret to inform you that your application for the inclusion of Falabella ponies in a section of the Australian. Pony Stud Book was rejected as the Society does not intend opening any new sections in the near future. 
That letter was sent to  Mr Mitchell  on 29 April 1 977. He received a similar letter from the Royal Agricultural Society in Sydney when he made a similar request to have the horses classified and exhibited there.  Mr Mitchell  has reached the point where he has written to Qantas Airways Ltd to ascertain the cost of disposing of the horses overseas because of what he considers- I believe that he has an argument- to be the unfair treatment of him by the pony club authorities and the Royal Agricultural Society in not allowing him to exhibit bis stock. 
Many Australians are greatly interested in these miniature ponies, which, as I have said, grow to a height of only 36 inches.  Mr Mitchell  has bred several himself since importing them in 1972. They are the world's smallest horses. People put them in the backs of their cars. They are very intelligent, they are very quiet and placid and they can be used to pull carts and give enjoyment to the children of today. I think that  Mr Mitchell  has a case. I hope that my remarks in the Parliament will cause many Australians and Australian horse lovers to write to the responsible authorities and appeal to them to have these horses recognised at the eleventh hour before  Mr Mitchell  makes a final decision to sell them overseas. 
I wish to place on record that Rex Connor and I were very close pals. We were brought together in our ideology by the fact that that we represented similar electorates. His electorate of Cunningham and my electorate of Hunter are steeped in Labor traditions. They are built on the backs of the coal miners- the men who hew the coal from the bowels of the earth. He passionately believed, as I do, that coal, like other minerals, is a Godgiven asset that belongs to the people and should not be permitted to be put into the hands of private enterprise for it to make profits. 
I would like to give voice to something which I believe the Miners Federation would like me to say. It is something which has not been mentioned by any of the previous speakers today. Some three months ago, outside our party room, Rex Connor showed a medal to me and said: 'Bert, look at what they have done for me'. The Miners Federation had bestowed upon him life membership of its worthy organisation. That is something which is seldom done to a man in public life. I join the other speakers in extending my deepest sympathy to the children of this admirable Labor man. 
-At the outset I wish to congratulate the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  on the speech that he has just made. I believe that it will meet with the approval of every member of the Australian Labor Party and of millions of Australians. I say to the honourable member for Denison with all the courtesy that I can muster that now he can understand why some of our waterside unions have taken action to restrict the shipment of certain goods to Indonesia. It is high time that more speeches like that made by the honourable member for Denison were made by other members of this House because I think we have taken enough in this regard. We have given substantial help. We have bent over backwards to be decent to Indonesia but Indonesia is not appreciating it. 
Tonight I wish to raise a matter that I have been wanting to raise for some time now. I am glad that the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  and the honourable member for Denison are in the chamber at present. The matter refers to the great upsurge in violent crime and corporate crime in Australia at present. To those who are interested, it is causing great concern. I wish to refer to an article in the  Australian Financial Review  of 1 7 August 1 977 relating to a statement made by a most dedicated, competent and honest senior Crown Prosecutor in the Sydney Criminal Courts,  Mr Vince  Wallace, Q.C. I have known  Mr Wallace  for many years. The article states: 
A 'vast and despairing plea' for abolition of the unsworn statement from the dock, at least in cases of corporate crime, was made by NSW's Chief Crown Prosecutor,  Mr Vincent  R. Wallace, Q.C, yesterday. 

 Mr Wallace was speaking to a paper by  Mr Rodney  N. J. Purvis, Sydney barrister and chartered accountant, on 'crime, corporations and commercial morality' at the ninth national conference of the Australian Crime Prevention Council, being held at Sydney University. 
When we look back through the history books to the ecclesiastical days when the church was charged with the responsibility of prosecuting people for criminal offences in England, we find that the accused was dragged from his home, pushed into the witness box and ordered to testify. None of us would like to see anything like that reintroduced. But today, as Vince Wallace pointed out in his statement, a person charged with a corporate crime can remain silent in the dock or he can make from the dock a statement invariably couched in very impressive terms which have been suggested by his defence counsel. If he makes a statement from the dock he is not subject to cross-examination. He can refrain from going into the witness box. I believe that if an accused person is to continue to enjoy that privilege, it should be mandatory on the judge by law to remind the jury in a very penetrating way that the accused can just as easily go into the witness box and be subjected to cross-examination. This is something in which a lot of politicians who have had no experience in criminal law are not interested. They should be interested in it because of the proportions which corporate crime and violent crime have reached today. One of the newspapers pointed out recently that in New South Wales there were 492 armed robberies in 1976 and 376 armed robberies in the previous year. In Victoria there were 334 armed robberies last year and 302 in 1975. The lowest recidivist criminal has the right to shelter behind a statement from the dock rather than subject himself to cross-examination in the witness box. My time has expired so I will take this matter up later. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question to the Prime Minister concerns a discriminatory provision at the very top of our legal and constitutional system which offends millions of the subjects of Her Majesty the Queen. In view of my surname the Right Honourable gentleman will appreciate my own concern. I ask: Has the Government considered approaching the British Government to amend the Act of Settlement of 1 700 to remove that section which rules out marriage between the heir to the throne and any woman who belongs to a specific church on pain of his being excluded from the succession? 
-The honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  spent the greater part of his speech referring to the previous Government's policies on uranium. I believe that it is to the great credit of the previous Government that it had a flexible viewpoint and was able to change its policies when it realised the growing indignation of the Australian people in connection with the mining of uranium. The honourable member for St George failed to point out to this House that it was the Labor Government that created the Fox inquiry to go into the details, the scourges and the advantages of the mining and marketing of uranium. It is not to the credit of his Government that in certain respects it has ignored some of the fundamental recommendations of the Fox inquiry in connection with uranium. 
I believe that this debate has to be conducted in a non-offensive, non-insulting way without any mud slinging. This matter concerns not only the present generation but also generations to come for thousands of years. That is why I passionately believe in the Labor Party's policy that a moratorium of at least two years should be maintained until the world can overcome the unknown, unsolved problems regarding the successful disposal of atomic waste. The honourable member for St George pointed out that there are in operation pilot schemes which have been successful in the disposal of atomic waste. That is not enough. The Government is worried about the growing public concern and indignation at its decision to mine and export Australia's uranium. In my view, public indignation will grow more intense as the Australian people learn more of the detrimental results uranium mining can have, not only on the environment and on fish and tree life but also on the health of our nationals, particularly those who mine it and the unborn, not to mention the raping of traditional Aboriginal lands and sacred dream areas. 
The mining interests have announced that there is $30 billion worth of buried treasure in the form of uranium in Australia. Some people grasp at this as a solution to overcome the economic problems of today. The Fox commission, set up by the Australian Labor Government as I said, emphasised that the mining of Australian uranium would create significant economic advantages for most Australians. However, in my view the consequences of uranium mining are so serious that they outweigh any possible material gain. I know this is not an argument that is easily made attractive to some people, particularly in today's rip-off society. They tend to compound the profitable with goodness and happiness. 
We hear talk of jobs for Australians, the profits uranium mining will bring and the foreign exchange it will earn. Only recently I was reminded that the same argument was paramount in Great Britain just after the turn of the 19th century, in 1807. There was agitation when an idealist politician, William Wilberforce, I think seven times put his Bill before the House of Commons for the purpose of abolishing slavery. It was said that he denigrated the name of Great Britain which professed to be a Christian country. William Wilberforce was told the same things that the Tories are telling us today. He was told that his Bill would minimise jobs for British seamen, both the men building the ships and those who went to sea. He was told that it would affect Britain's foreign exchange. When he pointed out that Britain should hold its head in shame because it was exporting slaves to other parts of the world, manacled together under the decks of ships virtually on starvation diets, he was told to disregard it. 
Things have not changed much since 1807. We are thinking today more of the profit and the jobs that uranium mining will bring than of the effect that it will have on cur community as a whole. This is more serious to the people at large than what the slave trade was to Great Britain in 1807. However, after years of agitation Wilberforce was able to get his Bill through the House of Commons and abolish slave trade by Great Britain. The Bill was not effective until about 1833 when it cost Great Britain 20m to buy off the slaves indentured to a life of slavery in the West Indies. The argument by the Tories and those who support them is much the same today. They say that uranium mining will create jobs and foreign exchange. The Fox commission was set up by the Australian Labor Government. It made significant findings which have not been observed by the Fraser Government. However, the economic advantages must be disregarded when the detrimental effects that uranium mining will have on society and the people of the world are taken into consideration. 
Uranium mining in the Northern Territory, commonly referred to as the Top End of Australia, will destroy the physical environment on which the Aborigines depend for the survival of their culture. It will introduce adverse social effects such as drunkenness and prostitution that usually flow from the establishment of camps such as those that will be set up as a result of uranium mining and the loss of Aboriginal land. But it is common knowledge to every man who has participated in this debate that the radon gas released increases the chances of those unfortunate miners digging the uranium from the ground contracting lung cancer. I have a document- many of my constituents have been asking for copies of it- which points out that one in six uranium miners in the United States develops lung cancer. 
Yes, that refers to underground mining. I agree that the risk may be reduced considerably. The honourable member for Isaacs has properly pointed out that those statistics apply to underground mining but the risk is not totally eliminated by open cut mining. It will still be a dominant factor and it will be a tremendous risk to those engaged in uranium mining. The United States Government has reduced the levels at which miners must have an examination for lung cancer. 
I turn now to reactors, the use of nuclear fuel and the dangers through explosion or leakage of radioactive waste materials. No country yet has the answer for the effective storage of waste materials. I believe that they are not close to the answer. The rapid spread of nuclear weapons constructed from nuclear fuels increases the dangers inherent in the expanding police powers necessary to protect the various stages of the nuclear fuel cycle. I applaud those self-sacrificing peaceful demonstrators who are making great personal sacrifice in endeavouring to arouse public concern to the massive evils that will be created to mankind should the Government's policies go on without impediment. Truth is truth and it shall prevail. What does it matter if man gains the whole world but loses his soul in that endeavour? 
It is believed that there are more than 300,000 tons of uranium in Australia. At current prices, we are told that our reserves could provide a bonanza in profits for those few companies which have found uranium deposits. Not surprisingly, these companies have exerted and are still exerting strong pressure on the Fraser Government as they did on the Whitlam Administration. They are similarly exerting pressure on our trade union movement to allow full-scale mining to go ahead. They have been somewhat successful in both fields. But a widely based opposition movement has grown up and is increasing. The movement which includes eminent scientists, church leaders, trade unionists and conservation groups has become so influential that there is considerable doubt as to whether the plans of the companies will be realised. 
Uranium first became an object of interest in Australia in 1944. As with the nuclear industry elsewhere in the world, its beginnings were rooted in military application. Exploration in Australia began at the request of the United Kingdom Government which wanted uranium for its nuclear weapons program. Discoveries were soon made at Rum Jungle in the Northern Territory, Radium Hill in South Australia and Mary Kathleen in Queensland. Then under the supervision of the new Australian Atomic Energy Commission subsidiaries of Conzinc Riotinto of Australia Ltd at Rum Jungle and Mary Kathleen and smaller companies in other places quickly began mining. Over the next 20 years some 7,000 tons of uranium oxide were mined and exported. The Atomic Energy Act makes provision to gaol anyone who impedes its production and export. It is to be expected that the Fraser Government will implement the provisions of that Act to achieve its goal- the mining and export of this mineral. 
Following the 1963 treaty on the testing of nuclear weapons, due in my view to the dangers of radioactive fallout of strontium 90, Linus Pauling, a leading American physicist, pointed out that some 7,000 to 10,000 American children had died as a result of leukaemia during the period that these tests were being carried out. I believe that it was one of the major factors that contributed to the great powers ceasing to explode nuclear weapons in the atmosphere. Linus Pauling was supported by an additional 12 prominent American nuclear scientists who agreed with his research and findings. The demand for uranium fell dramatically after about 1963 or 1964. The mines were closed. Employees were cast on to the economic scrap heap. No provision was made for alternative employment for them. By 1964 the only treatment plant operating in Australia was at Rum Jungle. The plant continued to stockpile ore until 197 1 when it was dismantled and sold. However, residues were left behind which, according to the Australian Atomic Energy Commission estimates, will continue to pollute the local environment at Rum Jungle over an area of 100 square kilometres for at least 100 years. 
For over a decade official complaints were made about pollution at Rum Jungle. In November 1960 an officer of the Norther Territory Administration reported that trees along the banks of one of the streams were dying and that waterholes were devoid of all fish life. In 1965 a meeting of interested parties was convened to discuss the problem. At the conclusion of the meeting the AAEC gave an assurance that it would make every possible endeavour to minimise the pollution. I am reminded of a poem- I think it was written by Thomas Bracken- that I learnt at school which said: 'Not understood, we move along asunder, our paths grow wider as the seasons creep, along the years we marvel as we wonder, why life is life and then we fall asleepnot understood '. Society does not understand the evils of what may occur in generations to come. I believe in the Labor Party's policy that there should be a cessation of the mining of this mineral until we are more conversant with the problems it creates and of ways in which they can be overcome. 
I rise tonight to congratulate the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  on his promotion. He is a man who suffered great mental torture. He had the strength of character to fight back against very serious public allegations against him which caused him to appear in the Court of Petty Sessions in Canberra on a criminal charge of bribery. I am glad that his strength of character has been such that he fought against this awful stigmaone of the worst in the minds of many people that can be levelled against a man in the public eye. On the back benches he showed that he was suffering from great mental strain during the terrific ordeal. It is to the credit also of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  that he restored him to the heavy responsibility of Cabinet rank. 
I do not think that I could have withstood the strain of appearing in court on an allegation that I had passed a $500 bribe to a man. 
I adopt a different line to that taken by my colleague, the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones).  I congratulate the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  on a published Press report in connection with the antiquated thoughts of an old judge at the Old Bailey in England last Friday. Apparently a man named Rossiter, 37 years of age, was convicted of a serious criminal charge. He pleaded with the judge to give him a bond and he would emigrate to Australia within 2 months. I think this is an insult to this nation by the judge at the Old Bailey. It is a retrograde step. 
The situation is reminiscent of the early 1830s when the Tolpuddle martyrs were sentenced to 7 years transportation to Australia. Apparently some judges in the United Kingdom look upon Australia as a dumping ground for people unworthy of continued residence in the United Kingdom. I speak with some degree of authority about our criminals. We have Australian born criminals who will match the best English criminals any day of the week. It is costing the Australian taxpayers a colossal amount to try to control crime in Australia. It is almost out of control without Britain, the mother country, trying to export some of her criminals to Australia. I was very pleased to learn that the Minister had taken a very firm and positive stand. When the  Sun  newspaper inquired of him about the matter he is reported as stating: 

 Mr MacKellar told the Sun: 'Australia will make the decisions on who is permitted to enter the country- the decision will not be made in Britain. ' 
I congratulate the Minister on that stand. I hope he will take other steps to see that this criminal does not come here under a false name. I hope the Minister will get in touch with Scotland Yard and have the criminal's fingerprints and photograph sent out here so that if he does land we will deal with him as we dealt with another professional criminal from Britain, Billy Hill. We did not let him off the boat in Sydney Harbour. We told him to keep going. 
He was the American mafia man who came here on a visitor's visa. In the few minutes at my disposal I want to refer, with great respect to members of Parliament who are members of the legal profession, to three stupid old judges in Britain. I do not think those words are too strong. I spent a full day at the Old Bailey recently watching the processes of a criminal trial. 
I was not in the dock, but I know some Liberals who could have been in the dock in Australia. Three judges of the Court of Criminal Appeal in Britain reversed the decision of a trial judge who had sentenced a man to three years' imprisonment for attempted rape of a defenceless woman. He broke three of ner ribs and her jaw and battered her face about. The trial judge sentenced the prisoner to three years' imprisonment. The man appealed to the Court of Criminal Appeal and appeared before three judges. A representative of the Army appeared and said that the prisoner was a good soldier and a credit to the nation. The man was put on a bond. This brought widespread demonstrations by the women of Great Britain. If I had stayed there a little longer I would have joined them in their demonstrations criticising the three stupid old judges who reversed the decision and who made clowns of themselves and of the British system of criminal justice. One of the judges said that if this woman had not fought so vigorously to preserve her virginity she would not have incurred these serious injuries. 
-He was about 75. 
-She was about 19. It was an awful thing to say. The judge said that if she had not fought so vigorously to protect her virginity she would not have incurred these serious injuries. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 8 September. 
What accommodation, transport, staff, security and allowances are being provided for the Governor-General designate, and from what date have they been provided. 
-The honourable member for Casey  (Mr Falconer)  in his usual dignified way launched a vicious verbal assault on Australian trade unions. I honestly believe that had it not been for the strength and unity of Australian trade unions the overall population of Australia today would not be enjoying its present standard of living. The honourable member indicated that he was strongly opposed to the maritime unions taking action against the handling of Indonesian ships. I think his speech would have been more balanced had he added to those remarks that the Australian trade union movement, and particularly the maritime unions, have been consistent all the way down the Une with Indonesia. The Indonesian Government was reminded late last year by several members of the Australian Labor Party when they were in Indonesia and when the Australian trade union movement was being criticised by the heads of the Indonesian Government, that the Australian trade union movement employed similar embargoes and fought just as tenaciously for the Indonesians when they were fighting for independence against the more or less harsh Dutch colonialists. 
The honourable member for Casey failed to mention on which side he came down when he spoke about the maritime unions of Australia refusing to load and man the  Jeparit  when it was taking munitions to that awful, dirty war in Vietnam not so many years ago and which today the whole world frowns on. Were the actions of the unions wrong then? I say no. Their actions are not wrong in connection with Chile, because Chile has a military government which overthrew a true democracy. It was a people's elected democracy. I mentioned in the Parliament only the other night that things had not changed much since the eighteenth century when people in Britain put up arguments which were the same as honourable members of the Liberal Party are putting up today. The arguments related to economic advantages and about pricing ourselves out of overseas markets. That was the argument, and it is worth a brief mention again, which was raised in Britain at the time of the slave trade. 
That outstanding moralist politician William Wilberforce was endeavouring to influence Britain. When William Wilberforce put a Bill before the House of Commons seven times seeking to abolish the slave trade, which is to the everlasting disgrace of our mother country, he was told that Britain's foreign exchange would suffer if Britain abolished the slave trade, that her seamen would be put out of work and that the ship building industry in Britain would become redundant. Britain then, as now, professed to be a Christian country, but it was involved up to the hilt and had a monopoly over the slave trade in the world, carting slaves from northern Africamanacled together, on starvation diets, below the decks of ships- manacled together like sardinesin the main to the West Indies. That is the same argument which honourable members on the Government side advance today, not the moral argument but the quid argument because they belong to the quid party. I hope to develop that proposition more strongly if time permits in this debate. 
-I did not interrupt the honourable member for Casey. Apparently he is getting stirred up by the truth that I am speaking now. However, we are debating the 1977-78 Budget launched by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch).  Everyone agrees that Australia has two overriding economic problems, namely, unemployment and inflation. Many of the Western countries are suffering from the same problems yet  Mr Fraser  and  Mr Lynch  have given us a Budget which, in the opinion of most economists, does nothing about either of these problems except make them worse. 
I think it is appropriate for me to disclose to the Parliament in this debate the latest unemployment figures which have been released by the Australian Bureau of Statistics today. The Australian Bureau of Statistics unemployment survey for August shows a disastrous slide in the labour market and it is projected that unemployment will rise to at least 450,000 or 7.5 per cent of the work force in 1978. This is what the Labor 
Party has been saying. The Bureau provides the Prime Minister's preferred index. He rubbishes the Commonwealth Employment Service's figures. He says that they are unreliable. The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations,  Mr Street,  when releasing the August unemployment statistics last Friday, claimed that unemployment during the month declined in line with the normal seasonal pattern'. He claimed in July that 'there was no clearly evident pattern in the labour market ' during that month. The latest Australian Bureau of Statistics seasonally adjusted series refutes the Minister's claim. 
Unemployment, in seasonally adjusted terms, is now running at 355,000 or 5.7 per cent of the work force. It is 60,700 more than it was 12 months ago. In seasonally adjusted terms, unemployment has been increasing in each quarter of this year. The position is most serious for young people between the ages of 15 and 19 years; 16.7 per cent of them cannot find work; 37,000 young people are still looking for their first job. That is an increase of more than 700 over the figure for the last quarter, at a time when the normal seasonal pattern should show a decline. Instead of positive action, the Government feeds speculation about an early election. Ministers attempt to inflame the uranium debate. The Prime Minister tries to intimidate the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and the Industries Assistance Commission. He blames the unions, although the Statistician yesterday released figures which show that the number of industrial disputes in June was fewer than it has been for 6 years. 
Australia needs a job-led recovery. Without positive leadership the lives of generations of young people will be blighted, just as an earlier generation was blighted in the Great Depression, of which I was a victim. In my electorate of Hunter, in Cessnock, the unemployment rate among youth is approximately 1 4 per cent. These young people could develop a sense of being nobody. They lose their pride. They lose their personality. Is it any wonder that some of them drift towards crime and drugs? The Government came into power with the sole intention of curing the twin evils of inflation and unemployment. It has failed in its attempt to cure both these evils that rack Australia today. As the  Australian Financial Review,  our most respected economic journal, which, in my view, frequently writes as impartially as any other newspaper, declared in an editorial quite recently that inflation is virtually shoved on the doorstep of the Arbitration Commission. Unemployment is ignored. As a result of this Budget, the number of unemployed will exceed 400,000 by Christmas of this year, and inflation, on the Government's admission, will be at least as high as it was previously. 
The amazing thing is that people have been trumpeting this Budget as an election winner. Are not we entitled to ask: Who will benefit from it? The only people who will benefit from it will be those already well off and secure in thenjobs a handful of people on the highest incomes. Rich people- the Prime Minister,  Mr Fraser,  included- will gain more in take-home pay each week than the majority of taxpayers receive in their total weekly earnings. For the vast majority of people the so-called tax cuts are a cruel fraud. Most of them make a gain of less than $3 a week, which is pitiful by comparison with the handouts to the wealthy. It will be immediately swallowed up by the higher price of petrol and by rising inflation. 
This is a budget prepared by the wealthy for the wealthy. As Bob Hawke said, it is a penthouse budget, conceived in a penthouse and directed to benefit those who occupy the penthouses of this country. Real government spending has been cut by nearly 2 per cent. Combined with the cut of about 4 per cent last year, this will directly reduce employment opportunities, particularly in the depressed building and construction industries. Reducing the rate of inflation is supposed to be the Government's main aim. Yet the increase in petrol taxes, on top of unnecessary devaluations and the destructive changes to Medibank, will guarantee another year of rapid price increases. Inflation will be at a rate of at least 12 per cent this year. Real earnings will fall. The purchasing power of family allowances will be reduced. The net effect of reduced real wages and family allowances and the tax changes will be to cut the purchasing power of our incomes by several dollars a week. 
Most dishonest of all is the Government's broken promises on tax indexation.  Mr Lynch  has continually promised full tax indexation. Yet in this Budget half tax indexation is announced for a so-called transitional period which lasts until 30 June 1979. Instead of stimulating the economy and expanding employment opportunities, the Government's excessive concessions to those already well off will increase the numbers who cannot get jobs. About $800m of potential company tax receipts is being given up this year. The special youth employment training program will cost $18m. While mining companies receive concessions, small business suffers. The rural community is ignored. 
In the Parliament today the Government took another step towards reducing the export levy on coal. This will prove a bonanza to the major multi-national coal companies which are operating in this country. It will be to the tune of well over $100m. Yet the honourable member for Casey a short time ago had the temerity to say that we were pricing our way out of world markets. If Utah Mining Australia Ltd and Clutha Development Pty Ltd are making millions of dollars and are not prepared to sponsor the cartage of Australian coal to overseas markets by Australian ships and Australian seamen, those companies should subsidise the wages of seamen. They are not. Big business of the multinational type, such as Utah, Clutha and the other giants in the coal industry would never agree to that because it is more important to such companies that they pay the highest dividends to their shareholders who would not know where the companies are operating. 
This Budget is dishonest, sectional, grossly unfair and basically useless in dealing with our economic problems. It has been truly exposed by members of the Opposition and certain sections of the Press. The Government has used others as a scapegoat for its economic inadequacies in curing the problems that greatly affect the Australian people today. An article in the Melbourne  Age  of 2 September points out the position. It is headed 'Bench is "useful" scapegoat'. I quote from the article: 
The Arbitration Commission was a socially useful whipping-boy for governments, employers and unions, a Deputy President of the Commission said last night. 

 Dr J. . Isaac said it was sometimes convenient to blame the Commission for unavoidable difficulties in wage and industrial relations. 
Not only has the Government attacked the Arbitration Commission for the economic ills that the Government has imposed on the country, but it has also attacked the Industries Assistance Commission for not bringing down findings suitable to the Government. The Industries Assistance Commission, I believe, is an honourable instrument of government. It does not serve one party or the other in government, other than in an impartial way. 
The Government has attacked its own employees by introducing the Industrial Relations Bureau legislation. The Government has tried to provoke its employees into taking industrial action. It rushed through in one day this important legislation which affects Commonwealth employees. The Government had the temerity to give the Labor Party Opposition only five minutes notice of its intention to bring in this legislation. The Government looks for scapegoats which it can blame for the problems which it should shoulder. In industrial disputation, as I said a short time ago and as revealed by the Bureau of Statistics, the strike rate in the nation for June, July and August was the lowest for six years. So the Government is trying to blame everyone but itself for its economic ills. It also is coming under severe and, in my view, justifiable criticism for its attitude towards education. The  Sydney Morning Herald  a short time ago carried an article under the heading 'Commission and Government clash over school funds'. It was referring to the Schools Commission. The article read as follows: 
The Schools Commission has refused to support the Federal Government's directive to transfer $5 million from government to private schools. 
The Government intends again to subsidise some of the most wealthy schools of this country to the detriment of the public school system and, in my view, is endeavouring to arouse another sectarian war in the country. The newspaper article continued: 
In its report, the commission said it was determined to protect programs for disadvantaged schools and for special education including the teaching of migrants. 
The commission also said that the Government, by rejecting its own target of 2 per cent real growth in spending on schools next year in favour of no growth was, in practice, resorting to annual budgeting and negating the benefit of a rolling triennium. 
The Government has failed to overcome the problems that are harassing the country. The Government has failed to overcome the two major problems which it went into power to overcome, namely, unemployment and inflation. The Government has failed the people of Australia, who are in desperate straits. It has cut back on education, on welfare housing for Aborigines, on child minding centres and on a host of other things on which it cannot properly justify cutting back. It is virtually turning this Parliament into a Jewish synagogue, in the view of many of the people in my electorate and elsewhere. I believe it is high time that the Government, before it further degrades this country in the eyes of the people of the world, resigned and got out. 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister. Does he share the concern of the honourable member for Tangney that the Government has failed to honour its election promises and that tax indexation in the Budget did not go far enough? Does he intend to emulate the example of the honourable member and retire at the next general election? 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister and I hope that he will answer it with the same frankness that he did the previous question. 
-In the minute available to me I want to raise a matter which I think should be abhorrent to every member of this House. It concerns  Sir John  Pagan and the 
New South Wales Permanent Building Society Ltd.  Sir John  was  President  of the NSW Division of the Liberal Party of Australia. He was the New South Wales Agent-General in London. 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 25 August 1977: 
How many persons are directly employed in the Federal Bureau of Narcotics. 
Who is its Field Staff Head. 
How many agents has the Bureau permanently engaged in (a) Australia and (b) overseas. 
What has been the cost to revenue of sums paid out to agents in the years 1974-75 to 1976-77 for information relating to the suppression of the illicit drug trade or possession of illegal drugs. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker - 
Motion ( by  Mr Bourchier)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
-The Committee is considering the Non-Government Schools (Loans Guarantee) Bill. I want to express not only my opinions but also the fears of many people in the Newcastle region in relation to how restrictions imposed on government financial assistance to public schools and to university institutions will affect the new School of Medicine at Newcastle. As you will be well aware,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  for many years- I believe it still is- the Newcastle region has been the industrial heart of Australia. That estimation is calculated on the volume of shipping that goes out of the Newcastle Harbour. For many years the people of Newcastle thought that they were being deprived of a medical faculty at the New.castle University. They recently acquired one. Now we find under this Bill that the development of the Newcastle School of Medicine which is in its early stages is to be restricted. The establishment of that school was important not only to the people in the region but also to the people of Australia generally, because we are all aware of the shortage of people trained in medicine in Australia. The Flinders School of Medicine in Melbourne and the Graduate School of Management at the University of New South Wales will be similarly affected by the legislation. 
The Government has come in for severe criticism from different sectors of the community for breaking its promise in connection with education funding. We should all be aware that the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  in another place in November 1976 committed the Government to a 2 per cent real growth in funds for universities, colleges of advanced education and schools in the 1977-78 and 1978-79 financial years. It appears to me that the Government has decided to ignore that promise, just as it has ignored so many other promises, by holding spending on the public education system to the 1976-77 levels in real terms, despite greatly increased enrolments. Despite what the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  says, only those private schools in the top two Schools Commission categories- that is, those whose need is least- will receive increased Federal assistance in this financial year. The Government's decisions strike at the fundamental goal of our society, namely, equality of educational opportunity, a goal which successive Labor and Liberal governments have striven to achieve. I can say that the Labor Party will continue to oppose these decisions in the strongest possible terms and will seek to maintain the independence of schools and university commissions established by the Labor Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The honourable member for Hunter should be debating, believe it or not, the Opposition's amendment to clause 7. 
I was going to link it up,  Mr Deputy Chairman. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  I gave a certain amount of leeway to the honourable member for Lilley, but, as you proceed- I ask no more than this- I would appreciate it if you would tie your remarks to the amendment before the Committee. 
-The amendment moved by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  is supported by the Opposition because we believe that the Government has betrayed the people by not maintaining the 2 per cent growth in educational funds which it said it would. It came in for severe criticism in an article which appeared in the Melbourne  Age  of 30 June for not pursuing those things which it had promised. It came in for similar criticism in a letter written by Professor Niland President of the Federation of Australian University Staff Associations. As I understand it, he has no leanings towards any particular political party, but he points out in a three-page letter written to all members on 3 June the unfair actions of the Government in breaking its promises in connection with education funding. 
I support wholeheartedly the amendment moved by the honourable member for Kingsford- Smith. I hope that the Government will give consideration to accepting the amendment and therefore somewhat retrieve some of the face which it has lost as a result of betraying its promise to the people not so long ago in the field of education. 
I want to raise tonight a matter which arouses my personal indignation.  Sir John  Pagan, a former  President  of the New South Wales Liberal Party, was New South Wales Agent-General in London between 1970 and 1972. He was fined $500 for a serious breach of the customs laws when he returned from London in 1972 and the goods the subject of the charge were confiscated. He became a director of the New South Wales Permanent Building Society, one of the largest building societies in Australia, with assets of over $600m. He was due to retire as a director in 1977 and therefore had to stand for re-election. 
This will throw us into chaos. He did this the other night. He inspired it. 
A person, whose name I will not use, was due in 1977 to retire as a director of the New South Wales Permanent Building Society and therefore had to stand for re-election. During his period as a director - 
-He will not be here after the next general election. This is a deliberate attempt to frustrate me. 
I do not intend to touch on matters concerning the court proceedings,  Mr Acting Speaker.  The honourable member for St George is making a deliberate attempt to frustrate me and to prevent me from disclosing this matter in the public interest. 
A prominent member of a major political party in New South Wales who was on the board of the New South Wales Permanent Building Society obtained personal loans amounting to $100,000 contrary to the rules of that society. 
-This Bill provides for the extension of the Lands Acquisition Act 1955 to the external territories for purposes connected therewith and, as the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  has said, the Australian Labor Party supports the Bill. The way in which federal money is used in the acquisition of land should be the concern and deep interest of every member of this House. There have been disputes over land in almost every country and, near to us, great disputes and tribal wars in Papua New Guinea. There were the disputes on Norfolk Island which were referred to by the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder).  There are disputes in Australia now over the Aborigines' claim on their original land, in the Northern Territory particularly, which was taken over by large property owners, in the main from Great Britain. 
The purpose of the Bill is to extend the Lands Acquisition Act to the external territories and, as has already been pointed out by honourable members in this debate, to acquire land to set up a quarantine station in the Cocos (Keeling) Islands which was obtained, if my reading is correct, for virtually nothing by the Clunies Ross family before the turn of the century. It should be the concern of every member of this Parliament what federal money is used for because it is taxpayers' money. I am reminded by the daily Press of how federal money has been squandered in the acquisition of Housing Commission land in Victoria. In today's  Melbourne Sun  there is the heading 'Land valued "by directive'". The article stated: 
A valuer said yesterday he valued land at Sunbury above the market value because of a ministerial directive. 
-The Committee is debating the estimates for the Department of the Capital Territory and the Department of the Northern Territory. I want to direct my remarks mainly to the Estimates which concern the Northern Territory. I place emphasis on the fact that one of the greatest social problems ever to face the people of this country is the drinking problem in the Northern Territory and the lack of provision or positive action to overcome this grievous social evil. In my view, the estimates do not show any marked increase, except what is provided as increased expenditure to offset the effects of inflation in this country. The estimated expenditure in the Northern Territory for this financial year amounts to $63,075,000. 
I do not believe it is enough. I have some knowledge of the Northern Territory, having visited it on numerous occasions. During the period of the Whitlam Government I had the honour and pleasure of being  chairman  of the Joint Committee on the Northern Territory. We know that the Northern Territory suffered a great setback through Cyclone Tracy. I believe that the government of the day did all in its power to rebuild Darwin. This has been practically achieved at this time. The Darwin Reconstruction Commission is about to be wound up, if this is not the case already. 
I wish to deal with the drinking problems of Aborigines. I have expressed my feelings on these problems in this place before. Some years ago, I received the support of the former honourable member for Bradfield,  Mr Harry  Turner. On several occasions I have had the support of a former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and Minister for Social Services, the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth).  Like other honourable members they are very conversant with the problems of Aboriginals drinking in the Northern Territory. Yesterday, I looked through the files in the Parliamentary Library relating to the problem of Aboriginal drinking. I regret that some positive steps have not been taken already to create proper drinking facilities for the Aborigines in the Northern Territory, particularly on a non-profit basis.  Mr Deputy Chairman,  you would be well aware from your worldly experiences both before and after coming to this place, that if the profit motive can be negated - 
It does the honourable member for Swan  (Mr Martyr)  no credit to try to make a joke out of a very serious problem that affects Aborigines. 
He is not concerned at all, judging by his frivolous interjections. I do not think the problem of Aboriginal drinking can be negated unless some control is placed on the profit motive in the retail sale of liquor. It is obvious to anyone with any knowledge that many advantages resulted from the licensing of clubs in New South Wales, despite the evils of poker machines. Clubs created an atmosphere of civilised drinking. Many white people misbehave and over indulge in hotels. The whole purpose of the sale of liquor in hotels is to swell the profits of the publican who wishes to enhance himself in the eyes of the breweries as being a person who can increase sales. That is how the breweries in New South Wales in the main assess a publican's value. A publican who replaces another publican and can increase his beer sales by another three or four 18-gallon kegs a week gets a higher rating in the eyes of the breweries. The same thing prevails to a substantial degree in the Northern Territory. A person who goes into the hotel game in the Northern Territory does so with the sole purpose of recouping his investment in his hotel or licence. Human nature being what it is, this situation will continue to prevail. I hope that the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Adermann)  will do something in a positive manner about this grievous social problem in the Northern Territory. I will continue to harp on this matter as long as I am in this Parliament until something is done. At least I had some experience of dealing with society before coming to this place. As long as the profit motive is allowed to continue in the liquor industry in the Northern Territory the liquor interests in the main will pour their grog into white, black or brindle as long as they have two bob in their pockets and pour them out on to the streets for the police to pick up. The job of the police in the Northern Territory is made more difficult because the offence of drunkenness has been abolished in the 
Northern Territory. I personally was not in agreement with that abolition. 
I will not go into who did it. I am trying to make a sincere contribution but if the honourable member wants to switch me around to attack his Government on the subject I will do so. Now that the honourable member has prompted me, let me say that private enterprise, which the Liberal and National Country Parties so fervently pursue, should be prepared to abandon the profit principle in the sale of liquor in the Northern Territory to help to overcome the tragic problem of Aboriginal drinking. 
We should nationalise the retail sale of liquor and kill the profit motive of the publican. I have never been more positive. If I had my say the first thing I would like to see nationalised in this country is the liquor industry in the Northern Territory. I believe the honourable member would see my point if he came around the Northern Territory with me. 
I wish to refer to an article which appeared in the Brisbane  Courier-Mail  of 4 January 1974. The article which was headed 'Aborigines die in parks 'states: 
The Federal Health Minister  (Dr Everingham)  said from Rockhampton yesterday he would not allow nursing staff to return to the Hooker Creek or Yuendumu missions until they had police protection. 
The article goes on to talk about the reckless drinking by Aborigines. Grog is poured into them as long as they have two bob in their pocket. Another article appeared in the Adelaide  Advertiser  of 18 September under the heading 'Aboriginal "Massacre " '. It reads: 
An Aboriginal tribe on a NT mission station was being slowly 'massacred' by liquor, a professor of anthropology claimed yesterday. 
But the Labor Government did do something positive. I expect the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder),  who is to be the next  speaker  in this debate, to inform the chamber and me in particular- he would know more about this than I would- about what a great success the purchase of the hotel at Finke outside Alice Springs to cater for civilised drinking by the Aborigines has been. So, whatever errors  Senator Cavanagh  made when he was the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, I believe that that was a progressive step that he took. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Jarman)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-A week or so ago I tried to relate to the House a shocking scandal that existed in New South Wales at the top level of the Liberal Party. I refer to a former director of the New South Wales Permanent Building Society, one of the largest building societies in Australia with assets of over $600m. The person who was on the directorship was a senior member of the Liberal Party of New South Wales and was due to retire as a director in 1977 and therefore had to stand for re-election. During his period as a director of the New South Wales Permanent Building Society he obtained personal loans of $ 100,000 contrary to the rules of that Society at a time when many small investors could not obtain personal or housing loans due to a government initiated squeeze. Because of these loans he sought most vigorously to retain his position on the Board, for any failure to do so would be likely to reveal the malpractices in which he was engaged. 
At the annual general meeting of the New South Wales Permanent Building Society on 12 August last the person- the head of the Liberal Party in New South Wales, as he had been for many years- and four candidates stood for two vacant positions on the Board. At that meeting only one candidate,  Mr N.  D. Thomas, received more than half the votes and he was declared elected under the Society's rules. Under the Society's rules the meeting was adjourned until 9 September to elect the other director.  Dr Fitzpatrick,  the wife of the mayor of North Sydney, and  Mr Love,  together with the senior member of the Liberal Party were aspirants. In order to ensure his re-election and, therefore, to suppress information about his indiscretions the former senior member of the Liberal Party - 
In order to ensure his re-election and therefore to suppress information about his indiscretion, the leading member of the Liberal Party enlisted the support of many right wing members of the New South Wales Liberal Party. On 8 September 40 new accounts to the value of $250 were opened at branches of the New South Wales Permanent Building Society in Five Dock. Similar excellent business was reported at the Bondi branch and 500 new application forms at the Wynyard branch were also reported earlier last week. This showed clearly the effort being made by this person's supporters in the Liberal Party to ensure their eligibility to vote at the election for the final vacant directorship on 9 September. 
On that date over 1,000 members of the Society attended the meeting which was notable for the attendance of many senior politicians and businessmen. They included senior members of the Liberal Party, who formed a solid contingent in the centre of the hall.  Sir Paul  Strasser, the former  chairman  of the Parkes Property Group, was also seen to be in attendance, as well as  Mr Tom  Lewis, the former Premier, the general secretary of the New South Wales Liberal Party,  Mr Jim  Carlton, and the past  president  of the New South Wales Young Liberals, Michael Darby.  Mr Puplick,  who was seated with the senior member of the Liberal Party whose name I have withheld, spoke with him several times during the meeting. At the outset of the meeting  Mr Puplick  rose to his feet and moved that the meeting be terminated. Had that move been successful, no one would have been elected under by-law 1 16 of the Society, and it would appear that the senior member of the Liberal Party, as the incumbent director, would subsequently have been declared elected to the vacant position and his indiscretion - 
-The Parliament is debating the estimates for the Department of the Special Trade Negotiator, the Department of Overseas Trade and the Department of National Resources. In my opening remarks I wish to make some reference to remarks just passed by the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham).  True to his tradition as a tory, he advocated that small private companies should be allowed to go out and explore - 
-Indeed they should be encouraged to search, for our minerals. There may be a bit of merit in that but the honourable member for North Sydney did not tell the nation and this Parliament that our Federal Bureau of Mineral Resources carries out such activities. This is not done to the extent that it actually drills to find the quantity and the quality of the minerals, but it can virtually guide private companies to the location of Australian minerals wanted by the nation and the rest of the world. 
What has upset me in the last few days- I am talking now of national resources- is the criticism that has been levelled at the New South Wales Labor Government led by  Mr Wran,  who has indicated that he will not allocate the lease for the rich Warkworth coal deposits in the Hunter Valley to private enterprise. State parliaments have a right to allocate leases to different companies if they so wish; but the New South Wales Labor Government acts in a true Labor tradition. It is totally different from the Country Party dominated Queensland Government. We know that in Queensland Utah is making fabulous profits and is repatriating them overseas to its investors who would not know what a coal mine is or where in Australia it is located. This is the great conflict between members on the Government side of the chamber and members of the Labor Party Opposition on this side of the chamber. 
We believe in more public ownership of our God-given natural resources. I have believed in it since I learned to walk. I was raised in the northern coal fields of New South Wales where I saw the shocking exploitation of God-given coal resources by private enterprise. The companies concerned gouged the coal out of the ground by the quickest possible method for the highest possible price. Private enterprise was responsible for our losing millions of tons of high quality rich coal because of the rip-out, profit-motive dominated methods which they employed in olden times. I am going back just prior to the 1960s. This is why I could never agree with the thinking of members on the Government side that our natural resources should be allowed to be mined, developed, sold and exploited by private enterprise when one knows what private enterprise has done to our coal deposits. I applaud  Mr Wran  for his intention to allocate the rich Warkworth coal deposits in the Hunter Valley to the Electricity Commission of New South Wales which is a public owned and controlled instrumentality. Fifty-one per cent of the shares are to be allocated to the Electricity Commission. Private enterprise will be allocated 49 per cent. 
I imagine that the whole of the Australian people will applaud the principle involved in curbing the exploitation of God-given natural resources by private enterprise, whether those resources be coal, uranium, iron ore, zinc, lead, tin, silver copper or whatever. Those minerals were not invented by man. They were not created by man's creative and developed mind. If there is an Almighty, mythical or otherwiseand I believe there is- then those minerals have been created by Him. They were not put there for exploitation by private enterprise, whether it be Utah, Clutha or Coal and Allied or whoever to enrich the few against the many. Those rich minerals were put in the ground for the community to use, for the development of our nation and to improve the standard of living of the community in general. But what do we see? We see the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  like the honourable member for North Sydney who is always advocating a greater slice of the cake for private enterprise, criticising  Mr Wran  in connection with the Warkworth coal deposit. An article in yesterday's  Sydney Morning Herald  states: 
The Prime Minister,  Mr Fraser,  led an attack on the NSW Government yesterday for what he said was 'an outrageous decision' to allow the State Electricity Commission to develop the rich Warkworth coal deposits near Newcastle. 
They are in the Hunter Valley, which is outside my electorate of Hunter. The article goes on to say that poor old Coal and Allied had spent $5m in exploring the area. I learned years ago just after I came into this Parliament, from a man now dead and gone but who was employed by the New South Wales Coal Board, that there were vast coal resources in the Hunter Valley. The point I am making is that whilst Coal and Allied might have spent $5m- I believe that would be an inflated figure- the innocent minded public are given the impression that 
Coal and Allied searched for and found these rich coal resources in the Hunter Valley in recent times at the expense of their shareholders. This is not the case. The Coal Board, which is a government instrumentality paid for by the New South Wales Parliament and this Parliament out of taxpayers ' money, had done extensive research in the Hunter Valley in connection with the coal resources there. The Coal Board found there were colossal, rich deposits of coal there. So Coal and Allied were not responsible for finding the coal deposits. Admittedly that company carried out further research to find out the extensiveness of the coal seams. But what Coal and Allied would have its eye on would be how much money could be made out of it. When Coal and Allied proved the extensiveness of the deposits beyond doubt and discovered how much money could be made, it would go on the world market and would be bought out by a multinational consortium. But the great  Mr Wran,  true to Labor's traditions said: 'Hands off. The people of New South Wales, the people of Australia will control 5 1 per cent of the rich Warkworth coal deposits. There is not going to be a repetition in New South Wales while I am the Premier, of what happened in Queensland under the peanut cowboy Bjelke jokey Petersen who has sold out the rich coal deposits to multi-nationals'.  Mr Wran  has, by his own actions, said no. I applaud him for it. 
On this matter of private enterprise development, it is worth placing one thing on the record of this Parliament. The honourable member for North Sydney will be aware of what I am about to say. I suppose he would have the traditional Tory view. When I was in New Guinea at one time in a mixed delegation I was reading the English  Economist.  A Tory said to me: 'What are you reading, Bert?'. I said: 'I am reading about this crowd that built the Hawker Siddeley plane that we came over in having to pay back to the British Government 5m in excess profits'. This is private enterprise- 5m in profits over and above a company's normal profits in fulfilling a defence contract to the British Government. The Tory senator said: 'I cannot understand you Labor fellows. That is not exploitation of the British taxpayer. That is business acumen'. God bless me. The Hawker Siddley company had a rip-off in excess of normal profits of 5m. Another, the Ferranti Co. in Great Britain in fulfilling a defence contract in making the bloodhound missile some years ago similarly ripped off 6m, I think it was, in excess profit over and above their normal profits. That company committed a similar sin. The British Government found out and asked the company to hand back its excess profits. This Tory senator who was in the other place but is no longer in the Parliament holds the view that this is business acumen. How to God can anyone ever convince- I hope it never happens- my electors in Hunter that this is business acumen. It is shocking exploitation of man by man which if allowed to continue brings down people 's democracy. 
The DEPUTY  CHAIRMAN  (Mr Ian Robinson)-  Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I wish to speak to the estimates of the Department of Transport which involve an expenditure of $539m. There is one matter uppermost in my mind which I wish to emphasise. That is the overwhelming expression of opinion of people in the electorates of Shortland, Newcastle and Hunter and the northern sector of the electorate of Robertson that the national highway should be routed through a point near Doyalson around the western side of Lake Macquarie. I know that the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  has been sympathetic to the overwhelming views of the people in the region. 
The honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones),  when Minister for Transport, had an investigation conducted into the route that the national highway should take. It was decided by astute and public spirited bodies that the route should extend around the western side of Lake Macquarie, up past Toronto and should join up with the Pacific Highway in the vicinity of Hexham. Since this recommendation was made, there has been a change of government. Increasing pressure has been put on the present Minister for Transport, who is at the table, to upgrade the Pacific Highway- which passes through Newcastlefrom Doyalson to Swansea. I know that the Minister is sympathetic to the views expressed by a large number of bodies to the inquiry set up by the honourable member for Newcastle. However, the Minister for Transport is in difficulty because of the opinion of the New South Wales Department of Main Roads which has recommended to its Minister,  Mr Cox,  that $10m would be required to upgrade the Doyalson to Swansea road to a four-lane highway standard which would necessitate another bridge being built over the Swansea channel. 
I believe that in these matters responsible public opinion should prevail against the recommendation of the New South Wales Department of Main Roads to its State Minister,  Mr Cox.  I guess that, if I were in the Federal Minister's position, I would try to meet the request of the New South Wales Minister for Transport who has been guided by his Department. But I think it would be a grievous error if the $10m sought by the New South Wales Department of Main Roads was allocated by the Federal Minister to upgrade the Doyalson-Swansea section of the Pacific Highway to a four-lane capacity instead of allocating that amount of money, or almost that amount, to the development of the national highway around the western section of Lake Macquarie through Wyee, Morissett and Toronto. The matter remains dormant until some decision can be finally reached. I hope that the parties concerned, the New South Wales Department of Roads and the New South Wales Minister for Transport, will agree with the overwhelming public opinion concerning this new proposed national highway which, as was recommended to  Mr Charles  Jones, the former Minister for Transport, should take a route around the western side of Lake Macquarie. I believe the evidence is overwhelmingly in favour of it. It would take a tremendous volume of traffic away from the Doyalson-Swansea road. I frequently pick up the newspapers and see a report about another fatal smash on this road. The road needs upgrading. It carries a heavy volume of traffic which would be considerably lessened if the main highway went around the western side of Lake Macquarie. I venture to say that it would take two-thirds of the traffic load away from the Doyalson-Swansea region. Even the people who now traverse that road to the suburbs of Newcastle would use the national highway around the western side of Lake Macquarie to go to their homes in the western suburbs of Newcastle. 
There is an increasing volume of interstate traffic travelling north to Port Macquarie, Taree, Shoal Bay, and even to Brisbane and Cairns year after year. It will become more intense in the next decade. This is an important matter which has been lying in limbo for some time. I hope the Minister will make the practical and commonsense decision even if he has to chafe the Labor Party Minister in charge of the Department of Main Roads in New South Wales. I am not pushing a political barrow in making this suggestion to the Minister. It is the practical, common sense route for the national highway to take. If the Department of Main Roads is successful in getting the Federal Government to upgrade the DoyalsonSwansea section, one can expect that the national highway around the western section of Lake Macquarie will remain for many years undeveloped and not take the course which was the wish of the former Minister and dozens of responsible Newcastle bodies. 
The Minister is aware that the Newcastle Chamber of Commerce is pressing urgently for the upgrading of that road, but it could have a parochial view. It comprises people who are responsible in many ways, but they take the parochial view that it will put more 'money into commerce in Newcastle by sending northern tourists through the shopping centre of Newcastle where they might stay overnight. I think that is a narrow selfish view although they might hold it unconsciously. I think there is an urgent need for roads to be upgraded all over Australia, as much as the Government will permit. Inadequate roads are the main contributing cause of deaths on the road. Motor car manufacturers can put out faster cars year after year but the roads are inadequate to accommodate them. I could say more on this matter but I understand another speaker from this side of the chamber hopes to make a contribution before the debate closes. I hope the Minister will make the common sense decision. I know he is somewhat embarrassed at having the request made of him by the Department of Main Roads and the State Minister but I believe common sense will prevail and the $ 10m will be allocated to the development of the national highway around the western side of Lake Macquarie to which I have referred. 
-Education is again becoming a controversial issue with the Australian people. I surmise that most members of Parliament will be receiving letters from constituents or schools complaining about what they call the unfair allocation of federal money to the private school sector at the expense of the public school sector. I have with me one of three letters that I have already received from my electorate. It is from  Mr B.  W. Channell, honorary secretary of the Toronto High School. He has sent a copy of this letter to the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick).  He resides at 77A Excelsior Parade, Carey Bay. The letter reads: 

 Mr A. W.James, 
Member for Hunter, 
Parliament House, 
Canberra. 2600. 
Dear  Sir, 
At a recent meeting of the above association I was directed to write to you and express our extreme disquiet at the proposed alteration in funding by the Federal Government to private schools. 
Yours faithfully, 
W. CHANNELL, 
Hon. Secretary. 
Not many honourable members have disclosed to the House the number of letters that they are receiving, but I guess that every honourable member is receiving letters expressing such disquiet. Without having made a deep study of the allocations of money to the private school sector, I understand from one newspaper that I read that the Schools Commission has made a recommendation to the Government which the Government has ignored. 
I forget which newspaper it was. The recommendation of the Schools Commission has been ignored. If I understand the position correctly, the Schools Commission has on it representatives of the private school  sector  and representatives of the catholic schools. The recommendation to the Government was unanimous. It did not recommend to the Government a greater allocation of money to the private schools. I hope the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  who is our shadow Minister for Education, will correct me if that is not the case, as he makes a deeper study of these matters. I do not know why the Government should ignore a recommendation of the Schools Commission and dig up again the old sectarian serpent, which caused great divisions in our society over the allocation of money to private schools, I cannot understand the Government's attitude 
Although I respect the opinions of the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde)  who preceded me in the debate, I am surprised at his claim that in the main children of poor parents rather than of rich parents attend private schools. I am at a loss to understand how he arrives at that conclusion. If one were to conduct a survey into the incomes of the parents of the pupils who attend all the private schools in Sydney, such as Riverview and Kings and Joeys, as well as other great public schools such as Geelong Grammar and its associated enterprise Timbertop, one would find, I would say, that at least 70 per cent of the parents earn very high incomes. 
That is all I wanted to submit in the consideration of the estimates. Time does not permit me to say anything further. Thank you,  Mr Deputy Chairman. 
Consideration interrupted. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drummond)  -Order! It being 10.30 p.m., in accordance with the order of the House of 10 March, I shall report progress. 
Progress reported. 
-Is the Prime Minister aware of a report late last year which said that  Senator Colston  is right in claiming that the Federal Parliament and the Queensland Parliament should legislate for a code of behaviour on the pecuniary interests of their members and that such a code is needed in Queensland where a Cabinet for the past 10 years or more - 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 21 September 1977: 
1 ) Are staff joining the Commonwealth Banking Corporation still required to give written acknowledgement that they will serve anywhere. 
If so, is this acknowledgement common to all Commonwealth instrumentalities. 
Do Corporation staff have any choice in point of service such as exists in the Public Service, e.g. the Post Office, or does the Corporation still, without regard to length of service, use the written acknowledgement to enforce transfers. 
Has the Corporation in recent years insisted that staff transferred from capital cities to country appointments must clear housing loans. 
If so (a) was this policy required by the Commonwealth Banks Act; (b) what was the economic effect on the same officers transferred back to capital dues; and (c) what consideration did the Corporation give to the financial losses suffered by these officers in having to purchase homes again on a greatly inflated market. 
In regard to compensation for injury, is the Corporation required to give proper notice to its employees as to their rights such as is required by Workers Compensation Acts. 
If so, do the Corporation's instructions clearly indicate to officers injured on duty (a) that a certain Act applies and ( b ) any restriction of claims by effluxion of time. 
If an officer transferred to a country appointment required specialised medical treatment only available by residence in a capital city, does the Corporation take, or has it taken, the attitude that the request represents an application for transfer on behalf of the officer, and therefore the Corporation is not liable for any travelling or living expenses incurred in obtaining the medical treatment, even though the officer has been transferred to the country by the Corporation. 
Are managers of the Corporation restricted in their promotional opportunities by being required by any policy of the Corporation that they must serve a fixed term in each appointment before they are considered for further promotion; if so, is this requirement also applied to other officers. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 21 September 1977: 
Was  Mr Robert  John Doolan, after 31 years service, summarily removed from the management of the Moruya Branch of the Commonwealth Banking Corporation in March 1974, as a result of a report made by a Bank subinspector, and was he advised that he had been transferred without promotion as a disciplinary measure. 
Did  Mr Doolan,  in April 1974, exercise his right of appeal to the Disciplinary Appeals Board of the Corporation; if so, (a) did the Corporation argue that the Disciplinary Appeals Board had no jurisdiction as  Mr Doolan  had not been 'disciplined', (b) were the particulars furnished by the Corporation as required by regulation 35 ( 1 ) totally consistent with the Corporation's legal argument of no jurisdiction and no discipline and (c) did these particulars contain no specific charges evidencing inefficiency, incompetence or unfitness. 
Did the Disciplinary Appeals Board subsequently find that no matter what other reason the Corporation had for transferring the appellant, it had in effect come to the conclusion that the appellant was either inefficient, incompetent or unfit. 
If so, was the Disciplinary Appeals Board decision a complete negation of all the Corporation's legal argument and of the particulars furnished by the Corporation 
Did the  Chairman  of the Board decline to exercise express powers conferred on him under regulation 35(2) directing the Corporation to furnish further particulars evidencing this inefficiency, incompetence or unfitness. 
Was  Mr Doolan  then in the position of having to prove his competency without knowing the reasons for the Bank's conclusions about his competency and fitness. 
7) Does the Corporation use the transfer of a manager to the relieving staff without promotion as a disciplinary device. 
In regard to the inspection of branches of the Corporation, are staff privately interviewed by the senior inspecting officer. 
Are staff, during these interviews, encouraged to speak openly of their feelings towards the manager. 
Do the Corporation's instructions require a subinspector presenting a staff report likely to affect an officer's future career, to discuss this report with the officer concerned and obtain a written acknowledgement that the report had been so discussed. 
1 1 ) If so, did the sub-inspector in this instance ( a) decline to discuss his report with  Mr Doolan  stating it would be defamatory to do so and (b) ask  Mr Doolan  to sign a certificate that the report had been fully discussed with him. 
Parliamentarians are in the throes of preparing themselves for an election on 10 December next. Despite the ovemhehning amount of money that is anticipated will be spent by the opponents of Labor, the Labor Party feels that it will win the confidence of the people of Austraha which will enable it to take over the treasury bench of the nation after that election. I point out one of the great difficulties that the Labor Party has to surmount. The  National Times  of 17 October last set out on page 28 the amount of money spent by the Liberal and National Country Parties on television and radio advertising during the 1975 elections. The Labor Party was able to spend only $808,442 which enabled it to purchase 249 hours of time on radio and television. The Liberal and National Country Parties spent $ 1 ,2 1 9,7 1 3 and occupied 4 1 4 hours on radio and television. 
In the same newspaper the broadcasting times allocated by 13 television stations throughout the nation are listed. In my view, a very unfair allocation of television time to the major political parties- that is the Australian Labor Party and the Liberal and National Country parties- is shown. Television station TCN and other stations in Sydney broadcast the speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  between 7.15 p.m. and 7.30 p.m. The latest time at which the Prime Minister's speech was broadcast was 8.30 p.m. The times allocated to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  by some of these television stations were 1 1 p.m., 1 1.58 p.m. and 10.30 p.m. Television stations CBN and CWN Orange and MTN Griffith did not show the Leader of the Opposition's speech. At Newcastle his speech was broadcast at 9.30 p.m. It was not shown by WIN Wollongong. Television station AMV Albury broadcast the Leader of the Opposition's speech at 10.10 p.m. The Rockhampton and Maryborough stations did not show it. At Tamworth and Lismore the time was 10.30 p.m. and at Wagga Wagga it was 10.2 p.m. 
All my adult life I have respected to some degree but hated the power of money. My party advisers inform me that in the Hunter electorate, which is one of the truest Labor electorates in Austraha and which is the electorate that I have the honour to represent, the National Country Party of Australia spent $5,000 during the 1975 election campaign. It is an electorate which that Party could not even hope to win, because of the loyalty of my constituents to the true principles of Labor. 
-The honourable member for Chifley says: 'A good member'. That is a matter for the people to decide. My party, the Labor Party, spent only $1,400. Despite the avalanche of money which swept into the Hunter electorate, the National Country Party was able to persuade only 3.5 per cent to 4 per cent of my voters to change their allegiance from the Labor Party. Many of those electors have regretted their switch during the term of the Fraser Government. 
I know that it would be impossible to convince the National Country Party of this, but many people in my electorate believe that the National Country Party should make a contribution of the amount or half the amount it spent last time and the Labor Party should make a contribution of the amount it spent, if there were no contest, and that the money should be donated to some worthwhile organisation such as the Boy Scouts movement which is in dire financial straits in my electorate. That organisation plays an important part in the formation of the characters of our future citizens. In the little town of Aberdare outside Cessnock the Scout hall recently was burnt down. Dedicated citizens with a great love for character building are trying to raise sufficient money to rebuild - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. The Minister will recall that on the Australian Broadcasting Commission news this morning he stated that laws banning the broadcasting of election material on television and radio for two days before a Federal election were outdated and outmoded. The Minister also said that the Government could not amend the statute before the Parliament is dissolved. I ask the Minister: As the Government has on two occasions been able to effect major amendments to industrial relations legislation within 24 hours of their introduction to the House, why cannot the same haste and zeal be applied to this outmoded and outdated legislation? 
-The Coal Research Assistance BUI is a BUI to establish the Coal Research Trust account and for related purposes. I listened with interest to the speech made by the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating),  with which I entirely agree, although I think the levy should have been more than 5c a tonne in connection with expanding the country's research into alternative uses of coal. I believe that the Government could have been inspired to bring this BUI before the House because of an investigation that took place in Australia a few years ago when an international conference was held. It was decided at a meeting of the International Committee of Coal Research that more research should be carried out into alternative uses of coal. This organisation has grown rapidly since 1973 when the Western European Coal Producers Association and the National Coal Association of the United States of America decided to co-operate in coal research. Japan joined the organisation in 1976. 
The main aims of the ICCR may be summarised as fostering a continuous exchange of information and experience among coal producers and coal research institutions to help facilitate the international co-ordination of research programs, and informing governments and the public about the importance of coal and the scope and results of coal research. The third international conference on coal research was held in Sydney from 6 to 8 October 1976. It was opened by the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster).  A wide range of technical papers were read and discussed. Reference is made in relevant parts of the Joint Coal Board report of last year to some of the information made available during the conference. 
As I said earlier, I believe that the Government has been inspired as a result of that conference to introduce this BUI so that Australia can play its part in the world, as one of the major coal exporting countries, in research into alternative uses of coal. I welcome it. I hope that vigorous efforts will be instituted to find alternative uses for coal. Having been reared on the northern coalfields when a small boy, I know that it has been the hope of many of my people that one day there would be proper and vigorous research into achieving economic success in the extraction of oil from coal. I believe that in the years ahead it will become a reality because of the world energy crisis, because of the rising costs of Middle Eastern oil on the world market and because of the fears of people as to the use of uranium. They are worried about the disposal of the uranium waste after the uranium has been used in atomic power stations. It is my hope and wish that not in my lifetime will Australia have to resort to the generation of power from atomic stations because we have the God-given assets of coal. 
In the South Maitland coal fields- one of the principal coal producing areas in Australia prior to 1950- there were 20 or 30 mines operating. Now there are only three mines. This BUI sponsors to a greater extent research into alternative uses of coal. It has been estimated by world coal experts that the South Maitland coal is the ideal coal to be used in further research into the possibility of economic production of oU from the high quality Greta seam in the South Maitland coal fields area. A lot of government money has been pumped into the area in the way of schools, roads and hospitals. There are fears from time to time, seeing that only three mines are working in the South Maitland coal fields, that these could become redundant. It would be a great boost to the area to have a plant there to produce oU from coal. 
A German delegation recently in Australia spoke of two ideal types of coal in Australia for greater research and the possible production of oU from coal in the Toowoomba area and the South Maitland coal fields area. I would hope that the South Maitland coal fields area would have some priority. I am not trying to prime the parish pump because of the coal fields' close proximity to the seaport of Newcastle. I think that if there is not much difference between the quality of oU extracted from Toowoomba coal and that extracted from South Maitland coal, it would be more appropriate for the South Maitland area to have priority. It may be that overseas interests, because of carrots held out by the Queensland Government in the way of minimum royalties placed on coal in Queensland, could be induced to invest in the Toowoomba coal resources. 
It is a pity that one State plays off another in this field. It is a pity that the federal government could not say. 'You W111 fix royalties at 10c or 50c a ton'. The States would be under the control of the Commonwealth so that they could not play one another off in the way in which this has been done by Queensland and New South Wales. Much higher royalties are imposed on coal producers in New South Wales than in Queensland. This may have been why the German interests thought they might develop the Toowoomba coal reserves or carry out greater research in connection with Toowoomba coal for the purpose of ultimately extracting oU and other by-products from coal at a commercial price in preference to the South Maitland coal. 
I was somewhat disappointed at the remarks of my colleague, the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe)  a short time ago. He joined the critics of the New South Wales Government's decision to take control of 51 per cent of the vast coal deposits in the Hunter Valley, outside the Hunter electorate and in the electorate of Paterson. I know that the  Deputy  Prime Minister and Minister for National Resources  (Mr Anthony)  was vigorously critical, I believe unjustifiably, as was the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly),  of this action. I commend Premier Wran for taking over 5 1 per cent of the coal resources of the Warkworth region for the New South Wales Electricity Commission. It is regrettable if it is not going to stimulate investors' interest in the stock exchange and in the coal mining industry. 
The honourable member for Paterson tried to sell the idea that the Coal and Allied organisation had spent some $5m or $7m in research in connection with the Warkworth coal deposits in the Hunter Valley. I seriously doubt the accuracy of that figure. One has only to look at the Joint Coal Board reports which are SUPplied to every member of this Parliament year after year to find that the Coal Board carries out extensive drilling for coal in New South Wales and meets the cost of that drilling. It acts in a similar way to the Commonwealth Bureau of Mineral Resources. The Coal Board virtually pinpoints for private enterprise where the rich deposits of minerals are, whether those minerals be coal, bauxite, iron ore, manganese or whatever. The Bureau of Mineral Resources drills at the taxpayers' expense. When private enterprise is interested in developing some coal resource it obviously gets in touch with the Coal Board or the Commonwealth Government and is given this information. However, it does carry out more extensive drilling. So actually the Bureau of Mineral Resources or the Coal Board spends the people's money, the taxpayers' money, in finding the reserves of coal or whatever mineral it may be. It then directs private enterprise to those resources. When the taxpayers claim a 5 1 per cent share, through their Government, of the interest in the venture they are criticised by members like the honourable member for Paterson- I am disappointed in him-and the honourable member for Bradfield. I can understand the attitude of the honourable member for Bradfield because he represents an electorate that consists predominantly of punters on the stock exchange. One can understand his echoing the opinions of vast numbers of electors in the electorate of Bradfield. 
The honourable member for Paterson was, I believe, unduly censorious of the New South Wales Government for taking over 5 1 per cent of the Warkworth deposits for the State Electricity Commission. The attitude of his party colleague the honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Ian Robinson)  is worth placing on the records of this Parliament. According to a book I have here,  The Nymboida Story,  it was decided to close this little coal mine near Grafton, which was owned and controlled by private interprise. Because not enough profit was being made out of it, the ISO true Australian coal miners were cast to the four winds. They were thrown out of work, with utter disregard for their wives and famines and their children's education. To his great credit, the honourable member for Cowper with members of the Miners Federation attended a meeting in January 1975 to discuss the future of Nymboida colliery On page 14 of this book it says: 
In January 1975 Federation efforts around Nymboida included another in a series of visits there by the Northern District  president  Bill Chapman and vice  president  Jim Hayes, this time with District secretary Ken Fogg. While they were there, there was a meeting in Grafton involving themselves, the Nymboida workers, the Mayor (Alderman F. McGuren), and the local members of Parliament (Messrs I. Robinson M.H.R. and M. Singleton M.L.A., both of whom are Country Party members). This meeting pledged full efforts to see that the mine remained in operation 
So this is virtually a socialist mine. It could not be run successfully by private enterprise because there was not enough profit in it. The owners were prepared to close it down, with utter disregard for the 150 employees, but it is functioning successfully today. It produces a very rich type of coking coal which the Japanese are hungry to get. I suppose that, being so far from the seaport, it is hard to market the coal for the overseas trade. Fortunately the coal produced from Nymboida, which mine is being owned and run by the Miners Federation, is being consumed by a power station in the Grafton region. 
Whilst I would not agree much with the pohtics of the honourable member for Cowper, I applaud him for putting his shoulder to the wheel and doing what he could to keep this little mine at Grafton open in the interests of the 1 50 employees. This is the history of the coal mining industry. There would be no chance of the Miners Federation getting its hands on the rich coal deposits at Warkworth because it Will be almost as profitable as Utah's resources at Blackwater in central Queensland. It seems amazing to me that the attitude of our society and of some of our politicians in this country, State and Federal, is to let the State have anything that is not profitable but, when something is profitable, private enterprise must not be interfered with. I have heard you say,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that a lot of members of parliament who do not follow the political ideology of the Australian Labor Party believe in socialising their losses and capitalising their gains. This is what we find with the Warkworth deposits for which the Wran Government has been so unjustifiably criticised. 
I believe that collieries such as Nymboida, which was not a profitable colliery for private enterprise, should be exempt from the 5c per tonne levy imposed by this BUI. Greater encouragement and inspiration should be given to those ISO miners and to the Miners Federation. The Federation was able to keep the 150 men employed. They would have been thrown out on to social service payments. I am sorry I did not think of this matter earlier today so that I could have raised it with our shadow Minister for Minerals and Energy, the honourable member for Blaxland,  Mr Keating,  at the committee meeting of our Party. With his astute mind I cannot understand why we did not have some discussion on why the Nymboida colliery should not be exempt or why provision should not be inserted in this BUI to exempt that colliery from paying the levy of 5c a tonne when it is struggling to exist. It has been in existence since 1975. 
If it is too late now I hope that at some later date this colliery which has kept 1 50 men off the dole in Grafton Will, with the concurrence of every honourable member in the Parliament be exempt from the 5c a tonne levy because of what the men and the Miners Federation have achieved. It is to the great credit of the Miners Federation that it was able to take this mine over from private enterprise and keep it working successfully. My time is nearly up. I would like to mention only one other matter. I would have liked to have seen some provision in legislation similar to that which is now before the House to provide for the stimulation and strengthening of the financial position of the miners' pension fund. The miners' pension fund should be lifted to a height so that retired miners can live with respectability. They have to retire from the mines at 60 years of age. They are not eligible for the age pension until they are 65 years of age. If a levy of 5c or 10c a tonne were placed on coal for only 10 years to stimulate the miners' pension fund it would be financially healthy until the end of time. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice on 18 August 1977: 
1) Has his attention been drawn to an article in the  Australian Financial Review  of 17 August 1977 in which a most senior and experienced Crown Prosecutor in New South Wales,  Mr Wallace,  Q.C., has advocated the abolition particularly in respect of corporate crime charges, of the privilege presently available to accused persons in criminal trials of making unsworn statements from the dock which are not subject to cross-examination. 
If so, will he give consideration to the abolition of this unfair privilege to accused persons, particularly in relation to charges of corporate crime and, even more particularly, in relation to persons charged with serious drug offences. 
-My opening remarks will follow a similar pattern to the opening remarks of the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Burr).  I congratulate you,  Mr Deputy Speaker  Jarman, on your re-appointment as a  Deputy Speaker.  I have always found you to be one of the fairest occupants of the chair. I congratulate also the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)  on his maiden speech, which impressed me more than any maiden speech I have heard in the period of almost 18 years that I have been a member of the House. I hope that his career in the Parliament will be one of high achievements. As I have indicated to my electorate, this probably will be the last AddressinReply debate in which I will participate. I will make my contribution to it with a sincerity that I hope will be appreciated by a majority of honourable members if not by all honourable members. 
I sometimes get upset at unfair criticism being made of friendly nations. Yesterday in this House the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Yates),  for whom I have considerable respect, I thought was unfair in his criticism of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. We have friendly relations with the Soviet Union. We have exchanged parliamentary delegations with that controversial country in recent years, and we have recognised it for some time. Because it follows a political philosophy which is different from that of Australians and that of the Western world, we are inclined to resort to unfair and bitter criticism of the Soviet Union. 
I remember having at my home one weekend a former young idealist from the Department of Foreign Affairs. He left the employ of that Department because of his conflicting opinions with his workmates. His name is Gregory Clark. He told me, not in confidence otherwise I would not betray the confidence, that he used to get upset when members of the Department of Foreign Affairs would hold discussions around the lunch table about whether the United States of 
America and Australia might recognise the People's Republic of China. Those members of the Department of Foreign Affairs would say: Who will we have to make the big bogyman then? I suppose we will have to make Russia the big bogyman again'. I think it is regrettable that in the latter part of the twentieth century the West has to have a bogyman nation to justify the vast expenditure on defence to which we in the West resort. That expenditure is often matched- we read recently it was exceeded- by the amount of money expended by the Soviet Union. On page 10 of the printed copy of his Speech the Governor-General refers to strengthening defence and security. He said: 
My Government will continue to work for international stability and security, and to maintain an appropriate and substantial capacity to defend Australia. 
The honourable member for Holt, in what I referred to as unfair criticism of the Soviet Union in this chamber yesterday, said such things as: 'I hear no member of the Opposition protesting to the Soviet Embassy in connection with the Soviet nuclear powered satellite which came down in Canada'. I do not know whether the honourable member for Holt is implying that Russia should not be trying to match the American spy satellites. I cannot see anything unfair in doing that, if that is what it is doing- and I believe it is. Of course, the honourable member did not say that. He did not refer to an accusation which was made a few years ago by one of the Eastern European countries. I read about the incident in a magazine in the Parliamentary Library. It stated that the United States was polluting outer space with millions of copper needles in the hope that it would deter or jam peaceful radio communication in outer space and peaceful television broadcasting. Of course, not much emphasis was given to that article in the Australian Press, for obvious reasons. 
Perhaps a D-notice was served on the media of this country. I thought that D-notices had gone into oblivion after the Vietnam war, but apparently before Christman D-notices were served on the media by the Fraser Government requiring the media to refrain from publication of certain controversial matters which could have divided the Australian community to a greater extent than was already the case. I am pleased, and I believe that every honourable member of the House should be pleased that the Russian satellite that came down in Canada caused no harm by way of nuclear contamination. Russia foreshadowed that that would be the case when the satellite became uncontrollable. 
We heard no tribute- I have not heard a tribute paid by any member of this House- paid to the Soviet Union for its co-operation in recent times in making its facilities at its Antarctic base at Mirney available to members of the Australian Antarctic expedition. They readily flew an injured man a considerable distance so he could be returned, I think it was to Australia or New Zealand, for urgent medical treatment for a bleeding ulcer. Similarly, a few years ago they stopped trawling on one of their modern prawn trawlers in the Gulf of Carpentaria to go to the aid of a cargo boat that was wrecked in the Torres Strait and, in fact, rescued several survivors on a raft while many Craig Moyston fishing vessels, Australian owned and controlled, continued their profitmaking ventures with little regard for the safety of these wrecked seamen. 
Many honourable members seem to forget the fact that the Soviet Union fought as our ally against the barbaric Nazi war machine and lost over 20 million citizens in the last World War, over twice the then population of Australia. I ask: Are we fair in this unjustified criticism of the Soviet Union from time to time? We are sometimes inclined to forget the fact that the Soviet Union has been buying for a considerable number of years now over $80m worth of Australian goods each year and that in return Australia has been buying somewhere in the vicinity of $5m to $8m worth of its goods annually. Members of the National Country Party are always gratified to know when the Australian Meat Board or the government of the day has obtained another substantial meat sale to the Soviet Union. We seem to ignore the fact that a little over 50 years ago more than 80 per cent of the population of the Soviet Union were illiterate, yet it is now one of the major world powers and the Government of the USSR claims to have wiped out illiteracy completely. 
It is probably true that the Russian people do not enjoy the same sort of freedom as we do in Australia. I do not think that the Soviet citizens want our type of freedom when their type of discipline has enabled them to achieve so much in half a century. It is probably true that one cannot commit a murder in the USSR with the same freedom as exists here and one cannot defraud shareholders of thousands of dollars as one can do here. There would be police intervention of a vigorous nature if one tried to do that in the USSR. The opportunity does not exist because there is no H. G. Palmer of the type that existed here and defrauded shareholders. There is no Cambridge Credit which crashed as the Bartons did and as Patrick Partners did, one of whose directors is now a member of this House. I believe it is not possible in the USSR for a government Minister or a national treasurer to speculate in land. I do not think there is that freedom in the USSR. It is not possible for a Minister in the interests of his own family to exploit young married couples trying to buy their first block of land. I understand that freedom in the Soviet Union is too restricted for that sort of thing. I refer to the major political controversy that occurred over the former Treasurer,  Mr Lynch.  Let the facts speak for themselves.  Mr Lynch  made approximately $70,000 out of land speculation at a time when the Government of which he was a member was telling Australia that life was not meant to be easy. He used a family trust company to maximise profit by minimising tax, using the trust- a popular form of tax dodge, a form he himself condemned in the 1977 Budget Speech. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, this is the first chance that I have had to congratulate you on your appointment to your high and responsible position. We will certainly miss you from the Joint Committee on Public Works where your capacity and wisdom were always appreciated. I think that you will be the equal of any  Deputy Speaker  that this House has had. My main reason for rising tonight is to raise a matter in which I believe a great injustice has been perpetrated on one of my constituents. It is an immigration matter. I apologise for not informing the Minister for Immigration and 
Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar),  for whom I have a great respect, that I would be raising this matter so that he could be present in the chamber, but I was not sure that I would receive the call. 
The man concerned,  Mr Alfred  Goff, of 18 Elizabeth Street, Argenton, is a very worthy man of the highest character. He and his wife migrated from England about 1 5 years ago. He is 69 years of age. As an illustration of his patriotism I point out that just before he left England his two sons were due to be called up for national service. He saw to it that they remained behind and fulfilled their duty to the British Government. They carried out their duties in the armed forces in Britain as was required of them at the time.  Mr Goff  became widowed. For some years he worked for Sulphide Corporation Pty Ltd at Argenton. He receives a pension from his former employer. He also receives an age pension and he has some money in the bank. He lives alone in a house. He is now retired. 

 His sister who lives in Scotland wishes to come to Australia to join him. She is 67 years of age. They are in what one might call the evening of their lives. She is in excellent health.  Mr Goff  signed the necessary papers for the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, pointing out that he would provide her with shelter and any means of sustenance should it be required. But the Department's policy- under the control of  Mr MacKellar-  stated in reply to applications that I made that Miss Goff was not eligible within the Government's guidelines because she did not have an independent income. But Miss Goff has private means. She receives the British age pension. I suggest that whilst she is not eligible under the family reunion provisions of the Government's immigration scheme, she should be eligible under the retirement provisions. In correspondence to me the Department stated: 
Provisions exist for the entry of persons for retirement purposes but it is a firm requirement that they should be selfsupporting without recourse to social welfare payments. 
Here is a highly respected woman who wants to join her widowed brother in Australia. They are both of impeccable character but because she is not rich she is prevented from migrating to Australia under the Government's guidelines. I have learnt since this case came to my notice that people from Canada who want to migrate here in similar circumstances, who have no independent means and are not wealthy, have obtained money temporarily from a sponsor- a relative or someone else- and then have been able to show the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs that they have independent means. The people whose case I am presenting are too honourable to do anything like that. But that is one way of subverting the Government's provisions. 
The Minister already has reviewed this case for me and I hope that he will review again this case of Miss Goff who wants to join her widowed brother in Australia. I believe this case screams for mercy. It screams for further consideration so that these two people who are devoted to each other- they are brother and sister- may spend the twilight of their lives in happiness in Australia. I hope the Government's provisions will be widened not only to overcome the anomaly and injustice that exists now but also to overcome any future problems. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. I ask: What is the most convenient telephone number through which he may be contacted by unsuccessful tenderers who want him to have their tenders modified or recalled? 
-The Opposition supports the motion. I shall illustrate why the motion has been proposed. Last Monday it was necessary, in order to try to overcome the load of work levelled on the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works, for the Committee to sit from 9 a.m. until 1 1 p.m. I think all honourable members would be sympathetic towards members of the Committee for having to sit those hours in order to overcome the current workload. We have to listen intently to the evidence that is presented to the Committee. That is the reason why the Committee asked for this concession from the House. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 8 March 1978: 
1 ) Has he looked at the Act of Settlement of 1 700 since my previous question about it on 7 September 1977  (Hansard,  page 805) and since the honourable member for Werriwa placed question No. 1584 on the Notice Paper on 4 October 1977. 
If so, is it archaic and objectionable that the Crown is worn and inherited subject to the monarch not adhering to a particular religion or marrying a person who adheres to that religion. 
If so, has he considered approaching the British Government to make appropriate amendments to the Act, since the Australian Government, Parliament and people cannot themselves effect such amendments. 
-I congratulate the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Yates)  for his interest in this grave international situation. In the few minutes available to me tonight I take the opportunity of speaking while the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  is present in the chamber. The Minister had a reputation for great integrity before he came to this Parliament- a reputation he has maintained since he has been here. However, I am somewhat disturbed. I am anxious to know whether he has carried out a promise which he contemplated a few days ago in the national Press in connection with a man named Tait. This will arouse the interest of the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Birney)  and the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  both being former successful criminal defence counsel. 
I was always on the side of the Crown. The Press reported that the man Tait had about seven aliases. He new a plane into Northern Australia a month or so ago and crashlanded it near Katherine. It was found to be loaded to the hilt with hashish and other dangerous drugs. I think all honourable members will concede that the dangerous drug problem in Australia today is one of the greatest social menaces that has ever enveloped this country in its history. Over the last decade it has grown to gigantic proportions. What has concerned many people in Australia particularly myself- I wish it would concern every honourable member in this House- is that the man Tait was sentenced to a mere seven years penal servitude. I think that a non-parole of three years was recommended. It is all right for honourable members to laugh but a few weeks prior to his sentence two aged women from the United States of America were sentenced to 14 years penal servitude. No parole period was recommended by Judge Staunton who would be well known to the honourable member for Phillip and the honourable member for St George. It is very difficult to understand why there is such a variation in the minds of our judiciary. Tait is an incorrigible and virtually recidivous criminal who is already wanted in Indonesia for a 14 year sentence in respect of which he bribed his way out of gaol. 
In Indonesia. He crash-landed his plane which was loaded with cannabis and other dangerous drugs. It may be said that the two aged women from America had 1.5 tonnes of dangerous drugs in their vehicle when arrested at Gosford, fortunately outside the electorate of Hunter, but near enough, and that Tait had only about one hundredweight of drugs in his plane but there is a limit to what a plane can carry compared with a Volkswagen. I want to know whether the Minister carried out his threat to ask the Crown Law authorities in Darwin to appeal against the inadequacy of sentence of this man Tait. Many people think, as I do, that some business may have been done. 
It would be impossible for you to think. I would like the Minister to give us an explanation as to whether he advised the authorities to appeal against the inadequacy of sentence because the country is screaming about the injustice. Either there is an injustice in imposing a sentence of 14 years on the two aged 
American women and a sentence on Tait of seven years with a non-parole period of three years, or there is something wrong with the Commonwealth 's administration of the criminal law. I ask the Minister to put the minds of the people of Australia at rest by telling us what the Commonwealth is going to do. An appeal should be lodged. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I ask the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs: Does he appreciate the embarrassment suffered by honourable members on both sides of the House when they are approached by illegal immigrants who have overstayed their visas in Australia and been directed by his Department to leave? In view of the continuing flow of illegal immigrants from Vietnam, will the Minister consider allowing another brief amnesty to illegal immigrants now in Australia who meet normal immigration qualifications? 
I am asking his opinion about it, sir. 
I had the pleasure of being a member of the Committee that took part in the second hearing of this matter, and I think all Australians  wSl  realise the benefit that it is to the nation. It is true, as the Minister has said, that the project was originally referred to the Public Works Committee on 3 1 May 1973. The Committee tabled its report on 20 September 1973 and concluded that there was a need to establish a high security animal quarantine station on an island remote from the mainland. 
Honourable members will probably recall that it was first contemplated that this quarantine station be set up on Norfolk Island, which I was greatly interested in at the time, but due to the attitude of the Norfolk Island people the construction of the animal quarantine station was not commenced. I have been informed that a strong section of the Norfolk Island people now regrets that they did not allow or encourage the Government to examine the facilities at Norfolk Island and set up the quarantine station there. 
Subject to satisfactory arrangements regarding the site and the local people being in favour of the station being built, the Committee recommended West Island in the Cocos (Keeling) Islands in preference to Norfolk Island and Christmas Island. This motion of expediency that the work proceed has been delayed until now because of difficulties in resolving issues relating to the acquisition of land, of which all honourable members would be aware. The negotiations with the Clunies-Ross estate were successfully concluded by the Australian Government after some hesitancy on the part of the Clunies-Ross estate. I think all honourable members would be pleased to know that the issues were resolved in a manner satisfactory to both parties. 
The Public Works Committee in fulfilling its responsibility to the Parliament resolved to review its 1 973 report following the decision of the Government, on budgetary grounds, to cut back on the expenditure on the original plan and to reduce the capacity of the station from 200 to 120 adult cattle. This was mentioned by the Minister. Members of the Public Works Committee thoroughly interrogated witnesses at the resumed hearings with a view to ascertaining whether a cutback of expenditure or a reduction in the number of adult cattle it could handle from 200 to 120 would reduce the efficiency of the station. I think it was the unanimous decision of the Committee that efficiency had not been sacrificed by reducing the cost of the station. It was pointed out by the witnesses that provision was made for expansion, if necessary, in the future. Another island off the South Australian coast has been made available, I believe, by the Government for quarantine purposes. This will not necessitate the use of the larger station on Cocos (Keeling) Islands as originally intended. 
The Committee held a public hearing in Canberra on Friday, 12 May, and heard evidence from the Department of Health, the Department of Construction and the Bureau of Animal Health. One feels proud when one learns of the efficiency of this group of departmental officersservants of the Parliament and the people of Australia- of their obligations to the Commonwealth, of the great learning that they have acquired and of the dedication of these officers as top level public servants. I do not think that they get from the Australian people the credit to which they are entitled. They are dedicated to the jobs allocated to them. I think they are equal to the world 's best in the fields that they pursue on behalf of the Government of the people of Australia. 
Following a searching examination of the revised proposal, the Committee is satisfied that the viability of the station will not be prejudiced, particularly as the Department of Health intends to expand its existing animal quarantine station at Torrens Island- I referred to that a short time ago- near Adelaide to include facilities for 144 cattle. Cattle from the United Kingdom and Ireland and New Zealand cattle of foreign origin will be imported through this station which, as I said earlier, does not necessitate the building of the larger station as was originally intended on Cocos (Keeling) Islands. I am very happy to be a party to the Public Works Committee's recommendation to the Government that the work proceed. 
-Because of the late hour, I am reluctant to raise this matter this evening in the adjournment debate, but I feel - 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
-I shall endeavour to be as brief as possible in my remarks, since the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Adermann)  has indicated the lateness of the hour. I take pride in participating in the Committee consideration of this Bill, despite the minor contribution which I intend to make, because I had the honour of being the  Chairman  of the Joint Committee on the Northern Territory during the term of office of the Whitlam Administration. That Committee took major steps in recommending to the Government measures which were adopted and which have resulted in the progress which is now being furthered by the Government. 
I turn to the amendments. I am somewhat astonished to see the Government at this late hour moving 18 amendments and rushing the legislation through, even though it says that the legislation was presented after careful scrutiny of all the proposals. It is my honest belief that these amendments have occurred to the Government only since the arrival in this capital city last week of  Mr Everingham,  the Majority Leader of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. The fact that the Government has moved these amendments indicates the hastiness with which the legislation was drawn up. It bears out the allegations which the Austraiian Labor Party has made. 
The honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  spoke in support of the legislation and of the Government's amendments, although he seemed to favour the Labor Party's attitude to clause 7 of the legislation. But he did not vote for the amendments moved by the Labor Party. Similarly, the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  found nothing to condemn in clause 7. Therefore we believe that the amendments that we moved were worthy of much more consideration by the Committee. We believe also that acceptance of the amendment that we moved at the second reading stage would have benefited the legislation as a whole and the people of the Northern Territory. In my view, the honourable member for Sturt failed to spell out correctly the legislative powers provided for in the legislation. Too much power is being given to the Administrator of the Northern Territory and to the Governor-General. We should all be well aware that major constitutional changes should be decided by the people of the Northern Territory and not by this Parliament. We are now in the latter part of the twentieth century. We must maintain a peoples' democracy in which people have more say than administrators and Governors-General. I would like to have said much more. I applaud the general principle of the legislation, but I suggest that it would have been a lot better had the amendment which the Labor Party moved at the second reading stage been adopted. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report- by leave- adopted. 
-This is the first opportunity I have had to answer what I consider to be very unfair criticism of a nation that is friendly towards Australia made by a man on the Government benches for whom I have had considerable admiration since he became a member of this Parliament. I refer to the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman),  who on 30 May launched a vicious attack against the Soviet Union. In the  Hansard  of that date he is reported as saying: 
Soviet Russia bears an awful responsibility to humanity for what it has done and is continuing to do on the African continent. 
He went on to criticise the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics about its suppression of some of its dissidents. Whether the Soviet Union is right or wrong I think it ill behoves a supporter of the Government to attack the Soviet Union, a friendly nation, in the manner in which he did when one takes into consideration what is happening in some of the nations more friendly towards Australia, such as Indonesia which is at our doorstep. I would like to quote from an Amnesty International document which came into my possession last week. It states: 
Of the 886 prisoners released from  Tanjung Kasau  Prison, near Medan, 161 were reported to be ill . . . This would seem to fit in with the pattern of releases elsewhere. Those released from  Nirbaya  Prison in Jakarta were nearly all old while the Bandung newspaper,  Pikiran  Rakyat, 19 January 1978, reported the release of two 77-year-old men in the city. The only prison where age does not seem to have a significant criterion is  Bukit  Duri women's prison in Jakarta where the releases included a young woman of 30 who would have been a teenager at the time of her arrest. 
I have never heard any member of this Parliament question the integrity or authenticity of articles from Amnesty International. It goes on to point out that Indonesia has been releasing prisoners suffering badly from tuberculosis; 1 6 cases of leprosy were reported; and prisoners suffer from cancer and other serious illnesses. 
The barbarity of the Argentinian Government towards its people would shock members of Parliament if they cared to read the information available in the Parliamentary Library. In Saudi Arabia slave trade is still very prominent. I think that these countries should have deserved the withering attack of the honourable member for Denison before the Soviet Union. The honourable member has earned a reputation in this House of being an independent Liberal, a man with a degree of conscience, a man who stood up and raised his voice about the barbaric treatment by the Indonesians of the little East Timorese, who are still fighting for their independence. But apparently the honourable member feared that he might be branded as being too pro-Left, a pro-communist. He should not fear that. He bitterly and unjustifiably, in my view, attacked the Soviet Union. Other nations that have come in for criticism by Amnesty International are Brazil, Argentina- which I mentioned earlier- Chile, the torture in Greece under the old military regime a few years ago, Korea, Nicaragua, Pakistan, the Philippines and even other Commonwealth countries such as Singapore, where practically the whole of the Opposition has been put in gaol. I think that these countries merit - 
-Yes, the Soviet Union is right at the end of the list. I appreciate the comments of the honourable member for Dundas who is a fair-minded member of Amnesty International. I hope that the honourable member for Denison will earn back the admiration of some of the members on this side of the Parliament by following the principle of the honourable member for Dundas and criticising these other nations, which are more deserving of that criticism. The Soviet Union has its faults; so have we. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
1 ) What Commonwealth funds have been provided to New South Wales for the construction of flood mitigation works since 1963. 
What Commonwealth funds have been provided to New South Wales for the maintenance of these flood mitigation works since 1 963. 
Are flood mitigation projects a major national resource which must be protected by adequate maintenance. 
asked the Minister for home Affairs, upon notice, on 29 May 1978: 
What activities are being sponsored by the Commonwealth to celebrate the 250th anniversary of the birth of Captain James Cook. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 7 June 1978: 
What was the cost of providing Commonwealth ground transport in (a) Brisbane and (b) Sydney for (i) each Minister, (ii) ministerial staff of each Minister and (iii) any other persons nominated by each Minister during the period 1 July 1977 to date. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 7 June 1978: 
1 ) Is it a fact that the Australian National Line has not yet taken delivery of the  Flinders Range  and  Selwyn Range  even thought they have been completed and are ready to be put into commission; if so, why. 
What is the cost of keeping these ships idle. 
Would these ships be suitable for transporting wheat between Australia and various Arab nations, for which charters are currently being called. 
-Honourable members doubtless are aware that recently, with other delegates from this national Parliament, I attended the conference of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association in Jamaica. Before returning to Australia last week I paid a visit to Taiwan. We recall the great embarrassment that was caused a few years ago to our Government when it had to face reality and recognise mainland China in the forums of the world. However, my mission in rising today is to point out how impressed I was with the advances- made by the Taiwanese, particularly in relation to fish farming. As I witnessed that progress in Taiwan I wondered whether the Australian Government would interest itself in this industry as a means of providing gainful employment for the Vietnamese refugees who have been flowing into northern Australia. 
I am pleased to see in the House the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Mr Adermann),  who is so well versed in matters in the Northern Territory, and I hope that both he and the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  will interest themselves in my submission. Before I went overseas the media were emphasising that suitable industries for the employment of refugees should be initiated in the northern part of Australia. We know, from experience with refugees from other countries, that the first problem they face is the language problem, but fish farming, the details of which I propose to spell out a little later, would not present language difficulties to these people, who have sought Australia as their future home and have, on humanitarian grounds, been permitted to settle here. Their arrival has caused some embarrassment to the Government. I am sure that if Labor had been in office it also would have been embarrassed. Their arrival is also causing concern to the Australian people but, as has been pointed out in this chamber, Australia could never turn back the Vietnamese, with their leaking boats. If they were to be drowned we would be seen as despicable in the eyes of the world. 
In Taiwan I consulted some very eminent people in the fish farming industry. One was Professor Doctor T. J. Lee, director of the Taiwan Fisheries Research Institute, of 199 Hou-Ih Road, Keelung, Taiwan. I visited a fish farming project with a  Mr Richard  Yu, the director of the Global Fishing Company of Taiwan, and saw about 1 SO fish ponds in which fish of a species for which there is a ready market in Japan, at $1,500-$ 1,700 per ton, were being produced. The fish breeds to an edible size, about one kilo or a little over a pound, in five months. They also produce an abundance of crabs, eels and prawns in the fish farming projects of Taiwan. If the Government is not considering something of a more attractive nature, such a project, in my view, would be ideal for absorbing at minimum cost, the unemployed Vietnamese and many of our Aboriginal people in the Northern Territory. It does not call for great skill and is labourintensive. With the possibility of the Ranger uranium deposits being developed in the Northern Territory, a township of possibly 1,500 or 2,000 people could be created. If a project such as I suggest were implemented- it could be done at minimum cost- that would make available to the people of the Northern Territory a fish that it could not be suggested was contaminated by mercury or, as may happen later, by nuclear waste in our coastal waters. The latter is a problem with fish caught off the Japanese coast and in some British coastal waters. I learned of this at first-hand some 18 months ago when I was in Great Britain. British trawlers are forbidden to trawl for fish off certain parts of Scotland because of the nuclear contamination that exists. There is no possibility that fish farmed along the lines developed by the Taiwanese will present those problems. 
I would think that the Taiwanese would be the most advanced people in the world in fish farming. I ask the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, in the absence of the Minister for Primary Industry, to consider this proposition seriously. I am sure that Professor Lee and  Mr Richard  Yu would not hesitate, if the Government saw fit to undertake a feasibility study, to come to Australia for three or six months to offer the Government or the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation any advice that might be required. 
I point out that I am not denigrating the CSIRO or our fisheries divisions in any way, but I must confess that I believe that the Taiwanese, as I have said earlier in my speech, would be more advanced in know-how in this regard than Australia and many other countries of the world.  Mr Richard  Yu was once in Darwin and he suggested to me that the climate in that region of northern Australia would be most suitable for fish farming. I know that in recent times certain parts off the ocean waters of the coast of the Northern Territory have more or less been made exclusive for fishing by Aborigines. When one takes into consideration the fact that our Aborigines would probably have to be subsidised or government money would have to be made available to equip them with suitable boats to fish the oceans off the Northern Territory and that our Aborigines would probably lack the adapability to do mechanical repairs to their boats, together with the possible losses of boats in tropical storms that suddenly envelop the northern part of Australia, it could well be that it would be safer to engage the Aborigines in this sort of enterprise. I believe it would cost less and be more profitable in view of the markets available in Japan and Taiwan should this matter be developed. 
I do hope that at an early date the Government will see fit to invite Professor Lee, the Director of the Taiwan Fisheries Research Institute, and  Mr Richard  Yu to Australia to confer with the appropriate Minister. I must not overlook the fact that the Northern Territory Administration would probably appreciate, welcome and promote this industry should the Commonwealth Government see fit to cooperate with the Taiwanese authorities, which are prepared to offer all their expertise. I believe that the Northern Territory Administration would readily co-operate because I think this could well be the real answer to absorbing the Vietnamese refugees, giving them a feeling of independence and removing them from social services. This could save the Australian taxpayer a considerable sum as it is paying dole of $50 a week to the unfortunate Vietnamese who have had to seek asylum in Australia. Who is to know that the 200,000 people who have already arrived here- whom the Government has not welcomed although it gave to them a homemight increase to between 300,000 and 500,000 refugees in the years immediately ahead? 
To continue the humorous atmosphere created in the House by the Minister for Defence, I direct an artistic question to the Prime Minister. Is  Sir John  Kerr now hanging in the Prime Minister's office? Is it the Prime Minister's intention to dispose of  Sir John  Kerr quickly or does the Prime Minister intend to move him from wall to wall in various places of the Parliament without a permanent resting place? 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 26 October 1978: 
1 ) How many aeroplanes have landed at Wollogorang Station, NT, from (a) within Australia and (b) overseas during each year since 1 975. 
What were the names of the passengers and pilots of these planes. 
by leave- I rise to support almost entirely the remarks of the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock),  who led the delegation to the Commonwealth Parliamentary Conference in Jamaica. He was a very worthy leader. It was my fourth Commonwealth Parliamentary Conference. The honourable member for Lyne took a most unusual but praiseworthy attitude towards all the delegates. He is the only delegation leader in the four conferences that I have attended who has told the delegates that they may put forward their own point of view or their party's point of view on any of the subject matters before the conference. This was not done at the three previous Commonwealth Parliamentary Association conferences that I have attended. I think that those of us who have knowledge of the Commonwealth Parliamentary 
Association conferences would agree that most countries put up a united front. There is always the alternative point of view in the Austraiian delegation on matters of great importance. I remember that at the Mauritius conference a few years ago I was accused of rocking the boat somewhat when I put up the alternate policies of the Opposition. I did so with great gentleness, not with the aggressiveness that we use in this House. I put the Labor Party's policy on a zone of peace in the Indian Ocean, but the leader of the delegation was not happy that there was a disagreement within the Austraiian delegation. 
I believe that the Austraiian delegates at the Conference in Jamaica made a worthwhile contribution to the debates and made many friends on behalf of the nation as a whole. There was one exception which I believe should go on the record of the Parliament. The Leader would agree that, whilst I disagreed with one of the Australian delegates, I opened my remarks by saying that I did not intend to attack the Australian delegate personally but I did intend to dissociate myself from his remarks. He was under rather strong personal attack for advocating or expressing favouritism towards the apartheid policies in Rhodesia and South Africa. Whilst it was his right and privilege to put forward his own personal views, I think that certainly was most inappropriate in a country which, I suppose, is 95 per cent brown people. He was well aware that many of their forebears were victims of the slave trade and that they have been fighting for over 100 years for emancipation of their brothers and sisters, particularly in Rhodesia and South Africa. I thought it was most inappropriate. It created such an atmosphere, temporarily in the Conference, that the Austraiian delegate had to have an armed guard to protect him night and day. 
It was a tragedy that this did occur, but I believe that the rest of the delegates, particularly under astute leadership of the leader who never allowed himself to become upset or flurried about it, would have preferred it not to have happened. It occurred on the subject of world peace and the current world situation. Only one Australian delegate was supposed to speak that afternoon. The leader very fairly told me that it was between an honourable senator and me. I said: 'Well, we can easily settle that'. We tossed up and, as usual, I lost the toss. 
-It was not my penny. The honourable senator spoke and to some extent I regret that I lost. I think  Mr Fraser  would have preferred me to have won, because there were cables flashing from Australia to South Africa, denouncing the statement of the honourable senator and stating clearly- this was headlined in South Africa- the Australian Government's attitude. There were most interesting debates. I would endorse the leader's remarks and I would like to see every member of the House read the report. I quote a Zambian delegate who said that the West must not fear that Africa is becoming communist and therefore feel that Rhodesia and South Africa are the bastions of capitalism'. Cuba is not spreading communism in Africa but helping to provide the freedom withheld by the West. This was said by a Zambian delegate in the Commonwealth of Nations. Then the Leader of the Indian delegation said that he deplored the fact that nothing had changed since the great hope for world peace at the end of the Vietnam war. He went on to condemn the South African policies of racism and colonialism and expressed India's support for Namibian independence. 
I received the call late in the afternoon and in trying to remove the cloud that was over the Australian delegation, I went on to point out- using some of the words of the senator in another place- that 'I had been to South Africa too' and that whilst he had praised apartheid I condemned it. In the interests of this Parliament I stated that when I was there and saw toilets, hotels and buses displaying 'whites only', 'nonwhites only' signs, as an Austraiian it made my stomach turn. To hear at first hand that coloured white men and coloured brown men are working in the bowels of the earth in diamond mines and gold mines in South Africa depending on each other to save ones life from hour to hour, with the coloured white man receiving $300 a month and the coloured brown man receiving $100 a month doing the same work makes your stomach turn and makes you wonder how long people will put up with this sort of thing. When you hear little children ask their fathers, 'Why does the white man treat us so awful?', with tears welling up in their eyes, it makes you wonder what the delegate had really read. 
Had he not heard of Steve Biko who was murdered, as many others have been, at the hands of the tyrannical fascist police force? Before he went to South Africa had he not read that there was a Roman Catholic Mother Superior arrested recently in Rhodesia for giving food and shelter to some of the anti-government forces? Is he not aware that Hitler also- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! Before the honourable member proceeds 
I would remind him that he has leave of the House to speak to the report. 
I am speaking to the report and particularly in connection with the Austraiian delegate. I want to clear Australia's name because the records of this Parliament go out to the world, to our embassies and people in other countries. It is not that I want to get on the stage. I have not spoken in this House for weeks, and you are well aware of that.  Sir. 
I am glad I have your attention because there are times in this House when we should have sincerity and truthfulness. If it is hurting you, I am sorry. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 12 September 1978: 
Does the Double Taxation Agreement applicable to the Utah Company fix the income tax payable by that overseas investor to the Australian Government, on its $91m profit achieved during the last 6 months, at less than $ 1 Sm. 
Are Australian taxpayers, both investors and others, required to pay the Australian Government income tax of between $33m and $50m on an annual income of $9 1 m. 
Are American, Japanese and other overseas owned companies being treated generously compared with Australian companies; if so, is this making it difficult for competing Australian companies to survive. 
I ask the Minister representing the Attorney-General whether he can say what were the costs to the Australian taxpayer of the appearance of the honourable member for Fadden, the honourable member for the Gold Coast- I mean McPherson- and  Senator Withers  at the recent McGregor royal commission of enquiry into allegations of electoral boundary rigging. Can the Minister say what was the anticipated cost saved in not calling the Prime Minister before the commission? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 29 May 1978: 
1 ) Was  Mr Robert  John Doolan after 3 1 years of service, summarily removed from the management of the Moruya Branch of the Commonwealth Banking Corporation in March 1974, as a result of a report made by a Bank subinspector, and was he advised that he had been transferred without promotion as a disciplinary measure. 
Did  Mr Doolan,  in April 1974, exercise his right of appeal to the Disciplinary Appeals Board of the Corporation; if so (a) did the Corporation argue that the Disciplinary Appeals Board has no jurisdiction as  Mr Doolan  had not been 'disciplined' (b) were the particulars furnished by the Corporation as required by Regulation 35(1) totally consistent with the Corporation's legal argument of no jurisdiction and no discipline and (c) did these particulars contain no specific charges evidencing inefficiency, incompetence and unfitness. 
Did the Disciplinary Appeals Board subsequently find that no matter what other reason the Corporation had for transferring the appellant, it had in effect come to the conclusion that the appellant was either inefficient, incompetent or unfit. 
If so, was the Disciplinary Appeals Board decision a complete negation of all the Corporation's legal argument and of the particulars furnished by the Corporation. 
Did the  Chairman  of the Board decline to exercise express powers conferred on him under Regulation 35 (2) directing the Corporation to furnish further particulars evidencing this inefficiency, incompetence or unfitness. 
Was  Mr Doolan  then in the position of having to prove his competency without knowing the reasons for the Bank's conclusions about his competency and fitness. 
Does the Corporation use the transfer of a manager to the relieving staff without promotion as a disciplinary device. 
In regard to the inspection of branches of the Corporation, are staff privately interviewed by the senior inspecting officer. 
Are staff, during these interviews, encouraged to speak openly of their feelings towards the manager. 
Do the Corporation's instructions require a subinspector, presenting a staff report likely to affect an officer's future career, to discuss this report with the officer concerned and obtain a written acknowledgement that the report has been so discussed. 
1 1 ) If so, did the sub-inspector in this instance (a) decline to discuss his report with  Mr Doolan  stating it would be defamatory to do so and (b) ask  Mr Doolan  to sign a certificate that the report had been fully discussed with him. 
1 2 ) Has  Mr Doolan  written to him giving his approval for full details of the answer to this question to be made public. 
-I rise in particular to make a reference to a great financial crash, but I am compelled, although time does not really permit me, to make some reference to the speech of the cliffhanging honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil).  Since the last State elections in New South Wales he has emerged as the great protector of the Greek community.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  even with your great learning you might not be aware of this fact. Following the last State elections in New South Wales, there was a tremendous swing in one part of the St George electorate. The honourable member for St George, being a cliffhanger, was so sensitive about this swing that he wrote to  the Prime Minister to state that he had lost the Greek vote. Since then he has emerged as the great protector of the Greek community. Is it any wonder that the Government recently dropped the criminal charges against certain Greek people over their alleged frauds. It is another scandal. On  Nationwide  tonight we heard about the Beggs scandal involving the Fraser family. 
Every time there is a scandal or financial crash in Australia one has only to look at who are the pillars of or the backbone behind the organisation involved in that crash to see that, irrespective of what firm is involved, they are usually arch Liberals. Honourable members opposite may laugh. I refer to the crash of Patrick Partners, H. G. Palmer Pty Ltd, Cambridge Credit Corporation Ltd, Latec Investments Ltd and the Testro Group. Always the backbone of the company in the crash are the pillars of the Liberal Party. Recently in the Associated Securities Ltd crash- the greatest financial crash in Australia's history- over $100m was defrauded from the shareholders. Who are the pillars of society involved in this crash? They are none other than the former Liberal Premier of Victoria,  Sir Henry  Bolte,  Sir Reginald  Ansett and  Sir Cecil  Looker, the former  Chairman  of the Melbourne Stock Exchange. 
I have always told my humble constituents of Hunter that there is no law for the rich and law for the poor; there is only administration of the law for the rich and the law for the poor. We should be reminded also that, in the crash of the H. G. Palmer organisation, the Mutual Life and Citizens' Assurance Co. Ltd recommended that people invest in H. G. Palmer. One person who received advice to invest in H. G. Palmer was one of Australia's most brilliant and eminent Queen's Counsel,  Mr Clive  Evatt. After his savings were defrauded in the H. G. Palmer crash on the recommendation of the MLC, he went to court to get justice in Australia. But the Australian courts being so politically orientated, he could not get a verdict in his favour. So he went to the Privy Council in England. Honourable members opposite may laugh. He got a verdict for $110,000 against H. G. Palmer. One would expect that the honourable member for St George, a barrister, should be making the speech that I am making. The New South Wales Attorney-General,  Mr Walker,  is the only person who has advised investors in ASL- of which many were employees of  Sir Reginald  Ansett who advised his employees to invest in ASLthat they should seek legal advice with a view to getting legal justice as Clive Evatt did. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER  (Mr Millar)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
I listened with great interest to the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman).  I am grateful for the tribute that he paid me when he said that my remarks may disagree with his. They certainly will, but I respect his views on foreign policy. I have considerable admiration for him in connection with his publicly expressed opinion on the ghoulish invasion of Timor by Indonesia. I do not apprehend any fear for Australia should Indonesia come under the influence of the Soviet Union. I believe that if Indonesia had been more under the influence of the Soviet Union than it was probably there would have been little likelihood of Indonesia doing what she did to little Timor. 
In connection with this debate, when the history books are written and the major blunders of the great powers are expounded upon the list will probably focus upon such blunders as: The United Kingdom's abortive diplomatic misjudgment in the invasion of Suez; the actions of the 
United States of America in the Bay of Pigs episode and its intervention in the civil wars in Vietnam and Chile; Nazi Germany's aggression in World War II, its endeavours to create a fascist world and its involvement in the Spanish civil war with its fascist ally, Italy; Japan's bombardment of Pearl Harbour; Australia's involvement with the United States in the conscription of its youth to the Vietnam war; Indonesia's march into Timor- and now the Chinese invasion of Vietnam. 
In the last decade we have all learned that the Vietnamese have fought for over 60 years to expel the foreign plunderers from its shores: Firstly the French colonialists; secondly, the Japanese who were followed by the French again; and finally, the United States, Australia, New Zealand and other satellites. Now we have the Chinese invading Vietnam's territory again. Who in this Parliament would have thought 12 months ago that the world's most populous nation would invade its Asian neighbour- a neighbour that has suffered so much for well over half a century, that was setting in motion a government program to rid this little country of poverty, illiteracy, disease, hunger and exploitation? 
There is no doubt in my mind that Vietnam now finds itself in the same situation in which Cuba found itself in 1962. We all know what happened in little Cuba when its revolution displeased its northern neighbour. Whatever the right and the wrongs of the Vietnamese involvement in Kampuchea or even its border disputes with its northern neighbour, China in my view is not justified in ravaging through Vietnam in the way it is doing at this time. The relentless killing of innocent human beings cannot be justified. Something like 200,000 to 400,000 killings on each side have already occurred. 
Let me refresh the memories of honourable members of this House. It was at the 1954 Geneva Convention that relations between China and Vietnam began to deteriorate. At that Convention Vietnam was divided and, as we have since learned from the Pentagon Papers, Chou En-lai was the No. 1 butcher. At this conference in Geneva China sought three main objectives: Firstly, it wanted to neutralise IndoChina and rid it of the threat of American imperialism; secondly, it hoped that this would enable it to break the military encirclement of China by means of an international treaty which in turn would allow it to break out of its diplomatic isolation and dependence on the USSR; finally, if China could achieve this by acting as the guarantor of neutral states such as 
Sihanouk's Cambodia while dividing Vietnam, its sovereignty would be complete. 
These three objectives took a long time to achieve. China's isolation ended only when the war between Vietnam and the US ended and when it looked like being won by the Vietnamese who would be no longer beholden to Peking. In President Nixon, China found a willing ally in the return to the Geneva agreement as China had conceived it. As both the United States and China wanted the Paris peace accords to last, Vietnam was to remain divided. The Vietnamese victory in 1975 was a smack in the face to both China and America. There is no doubt that China sees South East Asia as its own sphere of influence. Consider the longstanding dispute between China and Vietnam over the Paracel and Spratly Islands. These are seldom referred to in such debates by honourable members. 
I hope the honourable member for Holt will expand upon the matter. I will listen to him with great interest. China occupies the Paracel Islands, after seizing them from Vietnam in 1974, and Vietnam occupies most of the Spratly Islands. But the dispute is not simply over the islands; China claims the seabed over a vast area south of the Spratly Islands where oil deposits hold out the prospect of economic independence for Vietnam. If it is correct, as reported in yesterday's Press, that China is withdrawing its troops from Vietnam, I am pleased, but I am also wary as I recall the old saying: 'When the shooting war stops the economic war begins'. I say that the situation in Kampuchea is only a ruse. The main issue is China's preoccupation with its own interests in South East Asia. It was China which played the part of the aggressor and seized the Paracels when Vietnam was well and truly involved in its war with the United States. I hope that the honourable member for Holt will substantiate my remarks in this regard. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, talking to China, through you, I say: You should have been supporting Vietnam in its struggle for liberation instead of making territorial claims to enrich yourself. If you were willing to exploit Vietnam's weakness when it was still divided and struggling against the Thieu regime you would have been capable of anything. Is it little wonder that the Vietnamese regard the USSR as their ally? At least the USSR is capable of loyalty- to Vietnam and many other countries. China, let us look at your track record. You accused the USSR of cowardice and provocative action when she was supplying defensive military aid to Cuba. In my mind you were wrong for the USSR was loyally aiding an ally. China, you supported the United States and reactionary forces in the PakistanBangladesh conflict. China, you backed the reactionary forces in the recent Sudanese situation. China, did you not give support to the counterrevolutionary forces in Chile, the military junta? Together with the US and aided and abetted by the Central Intelligence Agency and the International Telephone and Telegraphic Corporation and other multinationals you threw out the popular Allende Government in Chile. China, did you evict from Peking by force the Chilean ambassador, to the joy of the United States? The list is endless. You are frequently accused of lining up with the reactionary forces in Angola, Yemen, Ethiopia, Afghanistan and Burma. 
It is somewhat difficult for me to understand why the leaders of a socialist government in China, a country with a long and eventually successful struggle against the bastions of the Western world capitalism, should give its support and encouragement to the actions of others who are the perpetrators of ruthless capitalism. China has attacked and slandered the peace and friendship treaty between the USSR, Vietnam and Laos. I ask you whether these attacks are justified. Is it not to be understood that those countries would enter into a treaty, given your recent friendship treaty with Japan? I think that you, China, are in a state of paranoia. You are now playing a role that is reminiscent of that played by the capitalists when South East Asia was opening her doors to the Western world. China, you have not yet learnt your lesson, and I appeal to you to do so. Tell me why Vietnam should be punished? In your own words you said: 'We went into Vietnam only to punish them, to teach them a lesson'. The truth is that you are punishing Vietnam for its victory over the United States in 1975. 1 ask you: How long can you hide behind the cloak of socialism? 
I am saying it. The honourable member can hear it distinctly. Finally, I leave China with a statement made by one of its former prominent leaders after the Revolution, Liu Shao-chi. He made this statement in Peking. It is on the record. He said: 
If one follows the bourgeois-nationalist concept of the nation . . . opposes the Soviet Union instead of uniting with it, opposes the People's democracies instead of uniting with them, opposes the Communists, the proletariat and the People's forces in all countries instead of uniting with them, opposes the national liberation movements, instead of uniting with them and all the oppressed nations  . . then one will, of course, unite with the United States and other imperialists, will of course line up with the imperialists, will of course line up with the imperialist camp, will of course fail to achieve national liberation, will never accomplish anything in the cause of socialism, will of course make one's own nation prey to the deception and aggression of the United States and other imperialists, with the result that one's own nation will lose its independence and become a colony of the imperialists. 
This statement was made some years ago by one of the leaders of the revolutionary government in China. China would do well to recall and to do something in connection with this very important statement made to its people. 
-There are 124 members of this House, all of whom are male, all of whom have their personal view of this issue, be it based on religious, moral or personal grounds. Here we sit, 124 men deliberating on what I see is essentially an issue between a woman and her doctor, a husband and wife and their doctor, a woman and boyfriend and a doctor or a teenager, her parents and their doctor. A lot has been said over the past weeks about the breaking of medical confidentiality or the privacy of the doctor-patient relationship. A lot has also been said about the effect that this motion, if passed, could have on a doctor's judgment. A doctor's judgment in my view should not be subject to the scrutiny of public servants. This motion, if passed, will discriminate against the less fortunate. It will force them once again into the hands of the backyard abortionist. It will make safe, sterile abortions inaccessible to women who so desperately need them- women on low incomes, women who have been raped, women with large families and women to whom an unwanted pregnancy threatens physical and mental health. 
In 1970 a World Health Organisation report showed Australia to have the highest death rate due to abortion of all countries studied, including the United Kingdom, the United States of America, France and West Germany. Do we want a return to this situation? Who stands to gain if this motion is passed and legislation is enacted? A few years ago I spoke in this House about those who had benefited from the system as it then existed, those who gained financially from the misfortune of others. In my 19 years in this House I have exposed a few rackets and have named a few individuals who have taken advantage of others. Some of these people were medical practitioners who were supposedly possessed of humanitarian qualities and were concerned about the health of their patients. The Commissioner of Taxation knows them well, and so do I. 
There was a medical practitioner in Melbourne who under-estimated his income by $260,000 in two years. He was a  Dr Heath  who was prominent in the Kaye inquiry. An amount of $38,098 was involved in respect of Daphine Colbourne. There were those connected with the Heatherbrae Clinic in Bondi, Sydney, who were also charged with under-estimation of income. I exposed them to the House. People connected with the Heatherbrae Clinic were ultimately charged before the Sydney criminal courts. Out of that came  Mr Justice  Levine's interpretation of the existing abortion law in Sydney which has been referred to on many occasions in this debate. The Heatherbrae Clinic was the largest professional illegal abortion clinic in the whole of Australia. The clinic virtually had the reputation of a willingness to abort a cat if it had an assurance that its nails were cut and its owner had $200 in cash. It was one of the most wicked rackets that had ever existed in this country. As I see it, the Lusher motion virtually wants to revert to this situation. 
There are many more cases. One has to go only to the annual report of the Commissioner of Taxation to find them. I will name a few.  Dr Wall  was charged in connection with his extensive practice at the Heatherbrae Clinic. He was mentioned in the 1970-71 report of the Commissioner of Taxation's report as having an under-estimated income from abortion for the years 1962-63 and 1967-68 of $24,471.  Dr Louis  Wald who operated with him at the clinic also appears for understatement of income. Other medical practitioners prominent in the Kaye inquiry include a  Dr James  Gavin Troup who is mentioned as having an under-estimated taxable income of $105,534 for the years 1959-60 and 1965-66.  Dr Fink  is also featured. This professional abortionist under-estimated his income by $17,484.  Mrs Molly  Hearty operated as a receptionist in Sydney for two professional abortionists. According to the Commissioner of Taxation she under-estimated her income by $47,260. We all know of old  Dr George  Smart who is regarded as a lone operator in the illegal professional abortionist field. According to the Commissioner of Taxation he under-estimated his income by $29,368. Tonight I have mentioned but a few. 
Do we want to see a return to the days of parasites such as these? I believe that the clinics run by  Dr Wainer  in Melbourne and  Dr Davis  in Sydney are run for the benefit of women who honestly believe, after a great deal of soulsearching, that a termination is the only answer. I do not believe that these clinics are operated so that those who administer them can enhance their own financial situations. I do not believe that women lightly take the decision to have an abortion, especially those of the Catholic faith. We know that the Church regards abortion as a grave sin. Recent reports in the Press tell us that each year between 10,000 and 15,000 Catholic women in Australia have abortions. Let us consider these statistics. A recent survey commissioned by the Catholic Church shows that of 200 Catholic women surveyed nearly all believed that abortion was morally wrong. However, they were firmly resolved to terminate their pregnancies. Only 3 per cent said that they would continue their pregnancies if no safe legal abortions were available. Eleven per cent said that they would be willing to abort themselves. Four per cent said that they would threaten suicide. Sixty-six per cent said that they would seek help for an abortion elsewhere, even from untrained people. 
The honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher)  has said that one in four pregnancies ends in abortion. It is not true that included in the figures for abortions are those which occur by natural miscarriage. It is not true that hospitals classify and list a miscarriage as an abortion. I ask: How many abortions really are carried out in our hospitals? It often has been said in this House that I am the mouthpiece of Moscow; in recent weeks it often has been said around the House that the honourable member for Hume is the voice of the Vatican. On contemplation I often wish that a group of people with such dedication as the Right to Life group had been organised to protest at the killing of innocent humans in the so-called justifiable war in Vietnam. It is so easy to uphold the sanctity of life when the child is but a foetus and then later, so convenient to send that child to war to kill fellow human beings. 
Last night when I sat in this chamber I was particularly moved by the sentiments expressed by the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  when he said: 
There is not one who has not released his passion upon the body of some woman. 
In saying that he was referring to honourable members. I was surprised to note the reaction of the honourable member for Hume at that time. It was not embarrassment. There was an anxiety and a fleeting panic. I think the skeletons were rattling in the closet and if they rattle loud and long enough they will come tumbling out. In my 19 years in this place I have always tried to echo the feelings of the people in my electorate, the people of Hunter. Today I feel that in taking this stance I am doing as the majority would wish me to do. This subject is not one for decision by politicians and cardinals.  Mr Claude  Forell mirrors my view with the words he expressed in yesterday's Melbourne  Age.  He said: 
This foolish, futile and mischievous motion should be thrown out with the contempt it deserves. It is no substitute for a serious and constructive examination of a sensitive social problem. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 7 November 1978: 
1 ) With reference to his answer to my question No. 1299  (Hansard,  4 October 1977, page 1613) what sum has been paid by the Narcotics Bureau for information relating to the suppression of the illegal drug trade during each year since 1974-75. 
Will he note that I do not seek details of the persons to whom the moneys were paid. 
I have listened with considerable interest to this debate. I congratulate the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  in particular for the very nitty gritty or gutsy submissions that he made. 
He always makes a good speech. He is not a fence sitter. He always says something of great importance in the interests and well being of the Australian people. I suppose that today the interests of the Australian community in the issuing of passports and in the improper use of passports is more vital than ever before because of the extent of corporate crime and the menace of serious drugs with which you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  are well acquainted. This problem evolves our community and in particular, the young people. It has reached proportions unprecedented in Australia's history. From day to day we find that young lives are being ruined through the menace of dangerous drugs. Linked with that is the improper use of passports, and this matter is now being debated in this Parliament. 
As I see things with the considerable wordly experience which I have, the legislation is intended to tighten our immigration laws relating to passports. We of the Australian Labor Party or the Parliament generally approve of the legislation with slight alterations as indicated in the amendments submitted by the Opposition. For a long time in my adult life I have realised that irrespective of how tight the laws may be made in this regard, an intending law breaker who has unlimited wealth and who is prepared to spend it will subvert the law no matter how strict it is. The honourable member for Hawker named certain companies which had crashed and the people responsible who were able to flee the country. Virtually like an Amercian satellite encircling the earth these corporate criminals can move around the globe. There are certain names that come to my mind and one was mentioned by the honourable member for Hawker. The Barton family fled to Brazil and then to Paraguay. The Australian Government, using taxpayers' money, paid almost a million dollars seeking their extradition and this was unsuccessful. This bears out what I said. The corporate criminal with money need not be afraid of how strict the law is. The Barton family then came back to Australia voluntarily. An amazing thing about the Bartons is that they did not have their passports cancelled to prevent them leaving the country and incurring such an expense to the Australian taxpayer. I think I asked in this House why they should be issued with passports. At that time I was criticised by one of New South Wales ' leading criminal lawyers in the person of  Mr Gruzman. 
Yes, I hope he is not a friend of the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Birney). Mr Gruzman  expressed in a court in Sydney that I, the member for Hunter, and the honourable member for the New South Wales electorate of Campbelltown, were two of the lowest people who ever entered Parliament. But within 12 months  Mr Gruzman  was arraigned in the criminal court in Sydney on 15 criminal charges. So far, no doubt through influence and money and his ability to get passports at the flick of his fingers, he has been able to successfully get a separate trial on the conspiracy indictment. Anyone with a semblance of experience in the criminal court- as the honourable member for Phillip who has had considerable experience as one of Sydney's leading criminal lawyers- knows that the best chance of ever being found not guilty on a conspiracy charge is to apply for a separate trial. He probably sought such trials himself in the interests of his clients. He has the reputation of being an honest criminal lawyer. 
He has the reputation of being a fairly honest criminal lawyer. Perhaps to satisfy the honourable member, I should say that he is as honest as the profession will permit. No person needs to be afraid of being found guilty in the criminal courts if he or she has unlimited wealth. Patty Hearst knows that. The Bartons probably are well on the way to getting lenient treatment. I will not touch on this aspect any more because I might breach the sub judice law. 
The Prime Minister is no doubt aware of the sad and tragic death of a United Kingdom member of parliament in the person of  Mr Airey  Neave as a result of a bomb being placed in his car when it was parked beneath the House of Commons. Is it not intended to provide parking facilities for cars owned by MPs and for Commonwealth Government cars beneath the new and permanent Parliament House in Canberra? In view of the Hilton Hotel bombing and increased violence in the Western world, will he use his influences to have this proposal reconsidered? 
I am honoured to participate in this cognate debate in connection with Norfolk Island. I am grateful that so many honourable members of the House have shown such an interest in the progress of Norfolk Island. It is some years now since I was on Norfolk Island. I visited the island on five occasions from 1960 to early 1970.I have great respect for the indigenous people of the island. I have less respect for some of the business people whose only concern, in my view, is to increase their wealth. They are as rugged in doing that as the local people will permit them to be. I had many friends on the island. One of my great friends was a former councillor who used to keep me informed of what was happening on Norfolk Island. He was the late councillor Albert Bathie. I visited his home and he visited my home in Newcastle. He had been on the island for many years. He married an island girl, one of the Christian family. Her name is Amy. She is still alive and she is a lovely woman. 
When I first went to the island in the early 1960s there was one plane flight a fortnight. We know that the number of theseflights has now increased with great intensity and tourism has reached greater proportions than ever before. The number of hotels has increased. In one report I read that one hotel was to be closed and a new one to be built. The land on which that hotel stood is to be taken over by the Administration,  with the agreement and at the wish of the hotel authorities. When I hear of arrangements such as that I wonder whether some agreement has been made with one of the other hotel proprietors or whether the hotel proprietor who has an interest in the hotel does not want opposition set up at that hotel. As I said a moment ago, it is stated in that report that it was the wish of the hotel owners that the council resume the property. 
I support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  in this debate. I believe that in the main it is beneficial to the island people. When I first went to Norfolk Island I inquired about whether the island people were paid pensions or the unemployment benefit, which is better known as the dole. We call it a social service benefit now but people in my age group in my electorate of Hunter still refer to it as the dole. I was amazed to find that on Norfolk Island the people were paid only what was called a sustenance allowance which approximated, in the days before decimal currency, 30 shillings a week. I told some of the Norfolk Island people with whom I was friendly that they should fight for increased social service payments. They appreciated that they were not a taxed people and sometimes, in their innocence or because of their lack of knowledge, they thought it would be better if they did not fight for increased social service payments as they would have imposed upon them taxation similar to that on the mainland. 
But I am firmly of the opinion, I am afraid, that whenever the indigenous people of the island oppose proposals contained in government legislation or advanced by the Labor Party, the professional business people from the mainland use skill, oratory, influence and inducements to sway the Norfolk Islanders to opinions which are not in their best interests. I say that with great sincerity. I do not wish it to be interpreted as an insult to the Norfolk Island people. I wish it to be interpreted to mean that the innocence of the indigenous Norfolk Island people is being imposed upon by their not being given sincere opinions by the better-off classes of business people who in the main are on Norfolk expressly to enrich themselves. 
We know that, probably for many years before the situation received any publicity in Australia, Norfolk Island was a haven for tax dodgers. If it was a haven for tax dodgers, the statement I have just made is justified because a tax dodger's first and primary goal in life is to enrich himself by any means, even to the point of breaking the law. At this time I think I should repeat the words of a very prominent former member of this House,  Dr J.  F. Cairns, a former member for Lalor, who at a private dinner said to me that any person with great riches has not obtained those riches by legal means. With some knowledge of human nature, having been involved in many investigations of serious criminal matters before I was elected to Parliament I believe that to be true. 
We are all aware that the present legislature on the island, the Norfolk Island Council, is elected by a simple and seemingly fair method whereby all voters must cast eight preference votes for eight candidates and for no others. This eliminates confusion. The eight candidates with the highest number of votes form the new Council. However, minority power groupings have received a considerable number of votes but no representation, despite this very fair method. The majority power groups, usually conservatives and business people, may form a ticket for the eight vacancies and swamp the Council. Consequently, a system of proportional representation for the election of the nine members of the proposed Legislative Assembly is recommended by my Party with a quota of 10 per cent having to be gained to ensure election. This is considered fair to all concerned. 
Most honourable members who have made even a minor study of Norfolk Island are concerned about its being a tax haven. I know that a former member for Melbourne Ports,  Mr Crean,  tried to take determined steps to close loopholes that made Norfolk Island a haven for tax dodging. But loopholes still exist and they allow the avoidance of Federal and State taxes and duties. When I was on the island, a considerable number of years ago the indigenous people were not greatly concerned about this. Specifically, it appears that Australian estate and gift duties and State death and stamp duties are avoidable. Companies are using the island to avoid stamp duties. An indicator of this is the growing number of company registrations on the island. I must say that in the main it is the legal profession, of which the Minister for Home Affairs  (Mr Ellicott),  who is at the table, is a member, which advises people how legally to avoid paying taxes. I do not suggest that the Minister has ever been a party to this himself, but with his worldliness within the legal profession he would undoubtedly be aware that what I am saying is true. From 1 January 1972 to 30 June 1978, 818 companies were registered on the island. 
It is about five miles by three miles. I believe that one of the members of the 
Norfolk Island Council is present in the House tonight. I would hope that, after listening to this debate, he would try to arouse the indignation of members of this Parliament, which expresses the opinions of many sectors of the Australian people, towards this tax dodging that occurs on his island. I should imagine that he would do everything to voice his opinion and to get the Norfolk Island people to protest at this situation, although it does not actually affect the indigenous people who, particularly when I first went to the island in 1961-62, have lived by the principle of 'give me neither poverty nor riches' because they want to live in contentment with nature. 
I repeat the fact that 818 companies were registered on the island. Despite the 1973 amendments to taxation legislation which were implemented by the Labor Government and by  Mr Frank  Crean in particular in an endeavour to try to close the loopholes, over 360 of these companies have been registered in the last two years. In an editorial last March, the  Norfolk Island News  stated that chartered executive jets were bringing Melbourne businessmen to the island to investigate a new loophole which had been discovered in the tax laws. The local banks had kept staff back after closing hours to handle the transactions at that time. 
Yes, land sharks. They are more dangerous than the ones in the water over there, and there are plenty in the water there. The editorial in the  Norfolk Island News  stated further that the island rumour had it that hundreds of millions of dollars were involved. These rumours have since had more recent circulation on the island. Whilst real knowledge of the extent to which the bourgeoisie are avoiding taxes on their estates is not forthcoming, it is felt that there is little doubt that many of them are doing exactly that. Needless to say, a major priority is to eliminate the remaining avenues by which Australians are using Norfolk Island to side-step their taxation responsibilities. I believe that it is the obligation of the indigenous people of Norfolk Island not to allow their island to get the reputation that it is getting of being a tax haven and then a host to these professional business spivs who are using this beautiful island. If one were to use the words of the founder of Little Cuba, one would say that it is an island that could become 'the paradise of man'. It has a temperature that hardly exceeds 80 degrees in the summer and rarely falls below 60 degrees in the winter. 
I believe that, if Labor's amendment were accepted, all the money recouped from taxation on the island would be spent on the island. I know that when I was there the islanders were apprehensive about the introduction of taxation laws. They had pumped into their minds the opinions of the semi-spivs and the business people- not all of them; I emphasise that- who in the main went there for the express purpose of growing rich quickly. They have passed on the message: 'We do not want taxation here. We do not want that here'. Occasionally one could hear the voice of the European businessmen being echoed through the innocent tongue of the lovely Norfolk Island people. I remember one of my great friends, Jack Buffet - 
Yes, Bathie and Jack Buffet. Jack Buffet was called 'Boony'. He was a lovely old fellow.  His  opinions on many things, apart from government and the law, were sought on many things. He never took a great interest in those things, but his opinions were always sought.  His  opinion was sought as to whether the unloading of ships should be discontinued, because of his knowledge of the sea. He was a great seaman. Some ofthe last words he said to me before he died were: 'We do not want your laws here. We do not want too many laws here. We want to remain free. You complicate the place with laws. We do not want them'. I can see what he meant. There is no doubt that if I had had more time with Jack he could have pointed out to me how the island was being used by the business spivs of the mainland to make themselves rich, with little concern for the well-being of the Norfolk Island people. 
Norfolk Island is a fisherman's paradise. Fishermen are accused of stretching the truth to bursting point at times, but I went fishing at Norfolk Island one time and Bathie was in the boat. None of the fish we caught was under 3 lb. We caught seven fish on six hooks. I brought some back for the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson).  The Minister has been to Norfolk Island and has shown great interest in the island. It would be a pity if he did not have an opportunity to go fishing. I do not know whether he did. 
I return to the business angle. A tragic thing happened at Norfolk Island: There was a profession which the indigenous people were ready to take up and eager to pursue, but not being fools they did not. After they came back from fishing they found that they had to give their fish away. The boarding house and hotel proprietors in the early days would not pay for the fish. So, fishing was discontinued by the indigenous people. There was a snap freezer for fish; there was a place to keep the fish. The boarding house and hotel people wanted the fish for nothing. It had been the custom. They wanted to continue the practice. When I was there we filled nine corn sacks with fish and kept two sacks for ourselves. It is a fantastic place. The islanders are a lovely people. 
I noticed recently a newspaper article referring to the fellow who was arrested in the Northern Territory. It was  Mr Bela  Csidei. He landed on Norfolk Island with a suitcase full of notes. He was finally picked up in the Northern Territory and got a lousy three years' gaol for farming marihuana. I am glad that the Norfolk Island people detected him. They did the mainland a good turn. They sent him back. I have been told that the police and authorities' hands were tired from counting the notes for some hours at night. They were counting some of his ill-gotten gains. 
The only regret I have when the subject of Norfolk Island arises is in regard to one of the harshest governors that Norfolk Island ever had-  Major Morisset.  There is a place named Morisset in my electorate. It does not reflect the attitude of this man.  Major Morisset  was one of the early governors of Norfolk Island. He was very harsh and cruel. 
I would not say he was worse than this Minister. I think there is a lot of good in this Minister. I place on record the fact that the elected Norfolk Island Council is firmly against the introduction - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drummond)Regrettably, the honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 1 March 1979: 
1 ) Did the Committee on Official Establishments report to him on 29 April 1977 that it was investigating a proposed recommendation that, on appointment of the next Governor-General, Admiralty House and Kirribilli House be integrated so that the combined facility becomes the main accommodation for the Governor-General, the Prime Minister and VIP guests of the Government visiting Sydney. 
If so, what progress has been made with this recommendation. 
On what dates did he and /or members of his family stay (a) at Kirribilli House and (b) elsewhere on visits. to Sydney since April 1977. 
On what dates did VIP guests of the Government stay at (a) Kirribilli House and (b) Admiralty House on visits to Sydney since April 1977. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 29 March 1 979. 
1 ) What methods, other than periodic auction sales, have been adopted by his Department for the disposal of goods that are of no further use to the Government. 
Is it a fact that some bodies are allowed to submit tenders to procure goods without attending the auctions. 
If so, are these bodies exclusively charitable organisations and what are the names of these organisations. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 1 March 1979: 
1 ) Between what places has the Government paid for the transportation of  Sir John  Kerr's furniture and other effects. 
On what dates did the transportation take place in each case. 
3 ) What was the cost of the transportation in each case. 
I agree with a lot of the submissions made by the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Jull).  It was the objective of the Whitlam Government to have a totally independent newspaper, funded from Consolidated revenue, under a body like the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal, which is an autonomous organisation. 
No, not  Pravda  but an autonomous organisation. I cannot waste much more time. I have already paid the courtesy to the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  of sending him a message pointing out that I wanted to refer to him if time permitted in the adjournment debate. For some considerable time the honourable member for St George has displayed to this House that he is the leading political anarchist of the whole parliament. I refer to an article printed in  Inside Canberra  dated 20 October 1978 following the New South Wales State elections when the Neil vote considerably took in water. It began to leak. He discovered that in his electorate of St George there was a tremendous swing away from the Liberal Party, particularly in the State seat of Earlwood. When he discovered this he jumped on his white horse and rode flat out to the Lodge in Canberra to present a letter to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  He pointed out to the Prime Minister that there had been a swing against the Liberal Party by the Greek community in the St George electorate. The article states: 
The Federal Government is concerned at evidence of an erosion of support for the Liberal Party in the Greek community.  Mr Maurice  Neil, who holds the Federal seat of St George in Sydney for the Liberals, has written a detailed letter to the Prime Minister expressing concern about the loss of the Greek vote. He has undertaken a detailed analysis of the voting in the recent Earlwood State by-election in NSW, a seat contained within his Federal electorate. There is a large Greek community in the seat and in the by-election there was a heavy swing to Labor. 
Hence the reason that he has been tabbed in his electorate, as I have said previously, as jockstrap Neil, the man that is sensitive to the slightest swing. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! I think that the expression used by the honourable member for Hunter can be described as unparliamentary. I ask him to withdraw. 
I will withdraw it out of courtesy to you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  It was an athletic term that I learned in my athletic days. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 5 April 1979: 
1 ) How many persons holding Australian passports travelled overseas during each of the years 1975-76 to 1977-78. 
How many passports have been reported as lost or stolen in each of these years. 
How many of these have been recovered. 
Has his Department considered the possibility of issuing Australian citizens with an optional travel document to alleviate the fear of losing passports. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 9 March 1979: 
1 ) How many social security cheques were reported as lost or stolen during each of the years 1975-76 to 1977-78. 
2 ) What sums were involved. 
) What sums were recovered. 
How many of the cheques reported as lost or stolen were subsequently cashed. 
What was the annual loss to the Government over this period. 
What steps have been taken for detection of fraudulent activities and what steps are being taken to correct the situation. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 5 April 1979: 
How many illegal immigrants detained by his officers during each of the years 1975-76 to 1977-78 have had in their possession forged passports and /or identifications. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 4 April 1979: 
1 ) Does he intend to nominate a replacement for Harry M. Miller on the Board of the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation. 
If so, when may an announcement be expected. 
If not, does he intend to re-appoint  Mr Miller,  depending on the outcome of legal proceedings. 
I congratulate the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  on the concern he showed about the soaring number of road deaths. I only wish that I had time to join him in debating the theme of his speech. I am one who urges the nationalisation of the liquor industry as a contribution towards controlling road deaths. I am one who urges more prosecutions of publicans for serving teenagers with liquor. Next time the honourable member speaks on this subject, I would like him to incorporate that matter in his speech, as well as the matter of restricting taxation concessions which apply to the advertising of liquor. I think that the honourable member will gain more admirers if he incorporates those matters in future speeches on that theme. 
On 27 March, on the debate on the motion for the adjournment of the House, the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  who has honoured me with his presence in the chamber, urged members of this House, as well as members of the Australian public, to attend screenings of the Australian movie  The Odd Angry Shot.  Judging the honourable member on his past performance, no doubt he will soon be recommending that we should go to see the much vaunted movie  The Deer Hunter.  Both films are about the experiences of young men in the Vietnam war. It is not surprising that the honourable member for St George should display interest in movies of that nature. After all, he did do a stint in Vietnam. I believe he was at the front. I do not believe he was involved in the My Lai massacres. I do not believe that First 
Lieutenant Calley invited him to participate. I believe that he was one of those Australian soldiers who experienced hand to hand combat. Therefore, no doubt watching movies such as  The Deer Hunter  and  The Odd Angry Shot  help him to purge himself of his guilt, the guilt of association. Let us hope so, though it is doubtful. Only one reading of his column in the  Ethnic Newsweek  of 23 March-6 April is enough to convince me otherwise. 
Let us look at the Vietnam that we left behind. I wish to quote from a particularly moving article by John Pilger, who visited Vietnam last year. He writes: 
Much of North Vietnam is a moonscape from which visible signs of life- houses, factories, schools, hospitals, pagodas, churches have been obliterated. 
Forty-four per cent of the forests have been destroyed; in many of those still standing there are no longer birds and animals; and there are lorry drivers who will not respond to the hooting of a horn because they are deaf from the incessant sound of bombs; and there are some 30,000 children in Hanoi and Haiphong who are permanently deaf as a result of the American bombing at Christmas 1 972. 
The B52's spared the spacious French-built centre of the cities but laid 'carpets' of bombs down such crowded arteries as Kham Thiem Street in Hanoi, where today an old nicotine-stained figure with a wispy beard keeps a vigil at a gap where 283 people died. 'It was a block of flats', the old man said. 'We were mostly the old, women and children. There was not time to reach the shelters and we sang as the bombs came down. Singing is louder than bombs,' he said. Such dignity out of such horror is representative of the Vietnamese. 
More bombs were dropped on Vietnam than were dropped during World War II and Korea combined. It was the greatest aerial onslaught unleashed in man's history.  Mr Pilger  writes further: 
In Hanoi's Bach Mai Hospital, doctors have discovered that Napalm B, which the Dow Chemical Company - 
That company was referred to a short time ago by the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  in relation to another subject matter- created especially for Vietnam continues to smoulder under the skin's tissues through the lifetime of its victims. People continue to die from the effects of plastic needles which were sprayed by bombs created especially for Vietnam and designed so that the needles moved through human organs and escape detection, even under X-ray. 
Hamhong, like so many towns in the north, was bombed literally back to the Stone Age; every day for four years, from five in the morning till two in the afternoon, the planes came in low from carriers in the South China Sea. At Cu Chi in the south, an horizon that was once thick vegetation now shimmers in the heat, laid completely to waste 'for maybe half a century or more' according to the report of one member of an American Academy of Science team - 
The team recently visited Vietnam- 
This is the result of 'Operation Hades': The defoliation and poisoning of the landscape and crops, and the sowing of the seeds of human mutations for generations. 
The writer goes on to say: 
In 1970 I wrote about a foetal disaster at the Tu Dauc Hospital in Saigon where deformed babies were beginning to arrive by the dozen, the result, said American doctors at the time, of an aerial spray called 2,4,5-T, which is banned in the United States'. 
Added to this there are thousands of heroin addicts, and a strain of venereal disease for which there is no certain cure. There are the permanently dislocated and the insane and there are the thousands of American and Australianfathered children. This, honourable members, is their legacy. I hope that the member for St George has been listening carefully, as I believe he has, for he was part and parcel of this ghastly war and should hang his head in shame. Yet we And him, as I said earlier, writing a column in the  Ethnic Newsweek  of 23 March-6 April supporting the decision to suspend all Australian aid to Vietnam. I hope that he will regret it and change his attitude. 
It is nonsense for him to say, as he does in this column, that the provision of Australian aid is enabling Vietnam to divert resources for military purposes. He knows that that is not true. He knows that all aid is earmarked for specific purposes; that our aid to Vietnam has been mostly in the form of technical advice and agricultural projects. He knows that the recipients of aid cannot adopt a carte blanche attitude in regard to its use. The honourable member has blatantly distorted the facts of Australian aid to Vietnam. It is obvious that for him the war in Vietnam is still raging; that nothing short of a miracle will extinguish the fire, or quell his enthusiasm for it. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 5 April 1979: 
1 ) What is the estimated annual street value of hard drugs entering Australia. 
How many persons arrested for drug smuggling in Australia during each of the years 1975-76 to 1977-78 have had in their possession forged passports and /or other identifications. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. In view of the imminent reappearance of counter-cyclical beef import legislation before the United States Congress, does he intend to go to Washington, as he did last October, or does he intend to wait until August when the Finnane report is released? 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 8 May 1979: 
1 ) On what dates did he and/or members of his family stay (a) at Kirribilli House and (b) elsewhere on visits to Sydney since April 1977. 
On what dates did VIP guests of the Government stay at (a) Kirribilli and (b) Admiralty House on visits to Sydney since April 1977. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 5 April 1979: 
What is the anticipated increase in persons travelling overseas now that new cheap air fares are available. 
-My interest in this debate has been aroused to some extent. I regret that I cannot agree with the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  or my respected colleague, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding).  I am a practical man. I have had considerable experience in serious crime investigation. It is all right to say that we should not intrude on the liberty of the subject and that we should uphold the privacy between lawyer and client. This is the latter part of the twentieth century when democracy and the liberty of the subject are under one of the greatest challenges that has ever been made in the history of people's democracy. I am afraid that democracy is about to wither and decay because of the protection of the so-called freedom and liberty of the subject. 
Recently a senior Sydney Criminal Investigation Branch officer told me- it is akin to the matter the Parliament is now debating- that in the United States of America- this was either exclusive to one State or general- law enforcement officers executing a warrant to search a motor vehicle were authorised under the warrant to take possession only of such goods as were specified in the warrant. This may sound irrelevant to the issue but I do not think it is. The police opened the boot of a motor car. The warrant had specified that they could take possession of certain drugs. No drugs were found in the car but there was the body of a woman who had just been murdered. They took the body and charged the person with murder. The judge disallowed the evidence because that matter was not specified in the warrant. How bloody stupid are we getting? Emphasis is placed on the fact that the confessional or a solicitor's office cannot be bugged. Why should those people be so privileged? The privacy of a home can be bugged. A son can come home and tell his mother that he has just committed the Truro murders in South Australia. Seven decent young Australian kiddies were murdered. They never knew that the moment of their death was coming. Their bodies are still being dug up. It is permissible to bug a bedroom. But it is not permissible to bug a priest or a lawyer. 
At some time in this latter part of the twentieth century in Australia I would like to see that privilege between solicitor and client changed. I saw an example of this situation in a British court only the other day. It waived a principle of that law in the trial of Jeremy Thorpe. The witness in the box in the Jeremy Thorpe case was warned by the judge that he should not discuss his crossexamination with his lawyer. After the morning tea adjournment the witness came back into the witness box. The proceedings of that trial have attracted the attention of the world. The presiding judge asked: 'Did you observe my ruling and not discuss your cross-examination?' The witness answered: ' I discussed it with my lawyer '. 
Well, he said something to that effect. 
I think the honourable member might be dotting the i's and crossing the t 's. But I am giving the general theme of how I read the article. I do not have a copy of the newspaper article. However, it related to an attack on the privilege that exists between a lawyer and his client. The judge reprimanded the witness for even discussing the matter. I think the witness confessed that he had discussed the matter with his lawyer. The judge asked: 'What discussion took place?' The witness answered: 'I asked him how I was going and how was I answering the questions'. That is the very reason lawyers do not want that privilege, which has stood for centuries, destroyed. To use the Australian vernacular, lawyers drum their witnesses on what to say in the witness box to mislead the court and to earn the substantial fee which they charge their clients. I have seen too much of that. 
If a police officer gave a Crown witness advice or attempted to give advice, no matter how sad and how sadistic the crime was, he could be pulled up for conspiring to pervert the course of justice. But, because of the privilege which exists between lawyer and client, the lawyer can do it every day without fear. It is with regret that I differ from my colleague the honourable member for Melbourne Ports. He sees it through the eyes of a lawyer. I see it through the eyes of a layman, as a practical investigator of some of the most serious crimes to have hit the State of New South Wales. I am a practical man and I say that those honourable members whose views have been the opposite of my own are not acting as though we were in the latter part of the twentieth century, at a time when perhaps four mysterious murders have been carried out by an international drug ring that is supposed to be based in New Zealand. I believe that I know something about it and tomorrow I will impart my knowledge to the law enforcement authorities. They can have a go at trying to destroy my life if they like, but God help them if they miss. I will not be referring to them in the criminal courts as 'the defendants' but in the coroner's court as 'the deceased '. 
We must take a second look at our attitude. It is all right for privilege to exist between lawyer and client, but this is the latter part of the twentieth century, a time when, in our free people's democracy, violent crime has reached unprecedented heights. We politicians have to act accordingly and put down these evil doers. I believe that, to some extent, a vile, recidivist criminal, no matter how caught, is well caught. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 2 May 1979: 
1 ) Does the Government-financed inspection tour by several members of parliament of the Rhodesian elections indicate a change in policy toward that country. 
If so, what were the influencing factors that resulted in this change of policy. 
If not, when will the Government move to close the Rhodesia Information Centre in Sydney. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 1 May: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to proposed United States of America legislation in which the United States Administration is preparing to open a quasi-governmental agency in Taiwan. 
If so, is it a fact that this agency would continue to carry out unofficially the functions of an embassy in that country. 
Is it also a fact that the proposed legislation proposes to keep in force more than 50 treaties and agreements between the United States and Taiwan. 
What subjects do these treaties and agreements cover. 
Does Australia intend to follow the proposed lead taken by the United States Administration in regard to a trade, consular or information office; if so, when might an announcement be made; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
How many (a) non-Members of Parliament, (b) Government employees, both (i) State and (ii) Federal and (c) members of Government Parties being non-Ministers, have been issued with diplomatic passports during the period 1 975 to date. 
Which persons were issued with diplomatic passports during this period, and for what reasons were they issued. 
How many are still current. 
Are Governors-General and ex Governors-General and their wives entitled to diplomatic passports. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 22 May 1 979: 
Has the Government issued  Sir John  Pagan, a former Federal  President  of the Liberal Party, an official government passport for overseas travel. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 2 May 1 979: 
1 ) With reference to the current trial in Bangkok in which 3 Australian citizens have been charged with possession of heroin is he able to state one of the accused had in his possession 3 passports under 3 different names when arrested. 
) Were these passports Australian. 
If so, (a) at what office were they issued, (b) under what names and (c) what was the issuing date. 
What methods did the accused employ to obtain these passports. 
I am very happy to participate in this debate because it is a subject to which I have been very close for some years. I believe that I had some influence on the Whitlam Labor Government when it endeavoured to merge the two police forces, the Australian Capital Territory Police Force and the Commonwealth Police. It was common knowledge to those of us who took an interest in police forces around Australia and overseas that there was a grievous anomaly existing here in Canberra. It came to my knowledge many years ago that the Australian Capital Territory Police were operating their radio cars on a different wave length from that of the Commonwealth Police. This meant virtually that a description of an evil-doer could come over the Australian Capital Territory Police radio and the Commonwealth Police would not get the information, lt seemed a grievous anomaly. Therefore, a diligent Commonwealth Police officer could drive past a person wanted for a serious crime because he did not have the information. On that fact alone, I endeavoured to influence my Party to adopt the view that the two police forces should be combined. 
In those days the body resisting the amalgamation was the Australian Capital Territory Police Force. There was little or no resistance from the Commonwealth Police. Having some knowledge of police forces and having served in the New South Wales Police Force for 24'/2 years, I believe that the top echelon of the Australian Capital Territory Police Force could see slipping through their fingers the possibility of achieving the rank that they were striving to attain before retirement in order to make their pension more healthy. This would be in jeopardy if the two police forces combined. Of course, this attitude infiltrated down the line to the lowest constable who would have raised his voice with his little coterie of friends to suggest that the two police forces should not be merged. 
I cannot understand really- and I try to be gentle in this submission- the philosophy of my political opponents who in 1975 used their numbers in the Senate to resist the amalgamation which would bring the two police forces together. I believe it was a proposal which, in the interests of the community, was long overdue. Government members used their numbers in the Senate to prevent this amalgamation of the two police forces in 1975. The only excuse that these honourable members have now for amalgamating them, as the Labor Party wanted to do, is that  Sir Robert  Mark has made a recommendation that there should be one police force in Canberra. I think that is a frivolous and weak argument. I believe that honourable members opposite did the wrong thing by society in general, particularly the citizens of Canberra, and the members of both police forces in not allowing the amalgamation which the Whitlam Government tried to bring about in 1975. 
The honourable member for Hawker made a very worthy submission. The honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  and the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  have mentioned certain amendments which the Opposition would like to see made to this Bill with which I agree. There have been some grievous injustices imposed upon members of the police forces by their own administrative bodies. I would like to see a provision in the regulations if necessary, so that where a police officer during an emotional upset is persuaded by his senior officers to submit his resignation, the resignation does not become operative for at least three days. 
You are making fun of a serious matter, John. It does not become you. I wish that the Minister knew about this case in Canberra which still upsets me when I call it to mind. At the time,  Mr Anthony  was the Minister for the Interior. I believe that he had the sole power of dismissal of members of the Commonwealth Police Force. This case involved a very dedicated police officer, a man who would have been an attribute to any police force in the world. He was a qualified air pilot and motor engineer. He had three commendations on his police record for outstanding police work. He had a slight verbal altercation of a minor nature with a senior publicservant who reported him. The policeman's superior officer said to him, 'You have to resign or you will be dismissed and lose your superannuation'. This conversation took place after the Minister had been consulted about dismissing him. The Minister said, 'No, I do not want to dismiss him. Get him to resign'. Then the pressure was applied to this police officer. In an emotional state, he resigned and lost his superannuation and furlough pay and forwent the right of appeal. 
I know of other cases but time will not permit me to raise them. The case I have mentioned involved grievous injustice. Many members of the Australian Labor Party believe that an injustice done to one is an injustice done to all. I do not believe that the Minister at the table would have acted in the way that  Mr Anthony  acted on that occasion. 
I recall another case in Liverpool, New South Wales, in which a dedicated police officer with over 20 years service had served the community diligently. One evening at 5.30, his finishing time, a lady was seen to get into his motor car. They then drove away. This happened after he had knocked off work. He was questioned about the identity of the woman. He said to his superior officer: 'Pardon me, I was off duty. That woman is a friend of my family and she is known to my wife'. He was dismissed for insubordination. He then appealed to the appeal tribunal. At that time  Mr Justice  Perrignon had been appointed  chairman  of the appeal tribunal to tighten up police discipline. Both he and the police commissioner's representative upheld the police commissioner's action. 
It was a grievous injustice. The policeman's wife said at the hearing of the appeal tribunal that she knew the woman. She said, 'She visits our home. She is a friend of the family'. But neither she nor her husband would disclose the identity of the woman. This happened when he was off duty. Such action should not be permitted by people in politics or by any administrative officer. I believe that this police force could become the show piece of the southern hemisphere if the members of this House take the interest in it that they should. 
Crime is reaching an all-time high. Many of our criminals are going overseas. Members of the Australian Federal Police could well get trips overseas to extradite evil doers back to Australia. This would apply particularly to members of the Australian Capital Territory Police force when the amalgamation takes place. Such trips would expand the knowledge of the police officers concerned. It would also be an opportunity not otherwise available to them. Extradition of Australian criminals from overseas will become more and more common place. I wish that I was staying in the Parliament long enough to see the progress of the marrying of these police forces. I am not happy about the appointment of a commissioner from overseas. I do not doubt his ability but I know many men serving in the police forces of the States and the Commonwealth- Australian nationals- who could do just as good a job. 
It is a pity that we have had to go overseas and persuade  Sir Colin  Woods to come to Australia to administer the new police force. I believe this is a grievous insult to the present Commonwealth Police Commissioner,  Mr Davis,  who was born and raised in the electorate of Hunter. He has been a dedicated, skilled, loyal commissioner to the government of the day irrespective of its political colour. I believe that he would have liked to have been head of the Commonwealth police force following the amalgamation and to finish his career in that position. I think it is a tragedy that he was not given this honour. During his long term as Commissioner of the Commonwealth Police at no time has he made any statements that would embarrass any Minister or any member of the government. 
At this stage, I think that it is appropriate to refer to his great humane qualities. When Labor was in government, I recall the AttorneyGeneral sending for me because representations were made to him in Canberra about certain disciplinary action that was being taken against a Commonwealth Police officer. This officer had an affair with another policeman's wife. Commissioner Davis in his humaneness and with the wonderful manner that he has, took disciplinary action which I agreed should have been taken. He transferred the offending or erring police officer to Brisbane. Political representations were made to have the police officer returned to Canberra. The Attorney-General asked my opinion. I said that I thought it was a very humane recommendation. The officer had not been demoted and I thought that he should be rejoicing in the fact that he had not lost rank or been dismissed. 
In the New South Wales Police Force, for example, many police officers have been dismissed for lesser misdemeanours than the one committed by this police officer. In reaching his judgment Commissioner Davis took into account the cost to the taxpayers of training a police officer to the required degree of efficiency. He believed that for a minor act of indiscretion a police officer should not be lost to the community. However, in some police forces in the world more advanced steps are being taken than those being taken in Australia. We know that from time to time when the Press has no one else to condemn it turns its poison pen and its sadistic attitudes to a law enforcement body which is a disciplined body that can seldom answer back. In France the police force has a public relations officer. In Great Britain there is talk about appointing a police public relations officer. I refer to a book called  The Police  written by Ben Whitaker which paints a very good picture of police forces. In his book he says: 
The police in other forces are trying different solutions to the same problem. In Paris, a magazine called  Liaison  has been started with the purpose of explaining to the public what are the problems of the police. The criminologist who was appointed head of the Munich force in 1963 has called in a psychiatrist to teach his men better relations with the public; the Japanese police take an annual survey of publicopinions concerning them. In November 1963 the Chief Constable of Brighton suggested that his force should appoint a public-relations police officer whose job would be to make everybody feel that the police were giving them a fair deal. 
That should take place in Australia. I hope that the Minister will take steps to implement some of the advanced ideas which are being implemented in other countries. I want to end on this theme. I have been riled by the attitude of the police at times but I know the great good they do in the community. I conclude my speech with a quote from this book concerning police. It states: 
They are doing the difficult and dangerous job society demands without any understanding by society of what their moral and professional problems are. The public use the police as a scapegoat for its neurotic attitude towards crime. Janus-like, we have always turned two faces towards a policeman. We expect him to be human and yet inhuman. We employ him to administer the law, and yet ask him to waive it. We resent him when he enforces a law in our own case, yet demand his dismissal when he does not elsewhere. We offer him bribes, yet denounce his corruption. We expect him to be a member of society, yet not to share its values. We admire violence, even against society itself, but condemn force by the police on our behalf. We tell the police that they are entitled to information from the public, yet we ostracize informers. We ask for crime to be eradicated, but only by the use of 'sporting' methods. 
I hope that this legislation will be beneficial to both the police forces. I hope it will build a monument that will become the greatest, most efficient and humane police force in the southern hemisphere, if not the world. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice on 4 Aprii 1 979: 
1 ) Does he intend to nominate a replacement for Harry M. Miller on the Board of Qantas. 
) If so, when may an announcement be expected. 
) If not, does he intend to re-appoint  Mr Miller  depending on the outcome of legal proceedings. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 5 April 1979: 
1 ) What sums has Australia Post lost by fraudulent use of money transfer forms during each of the years 1 975-76 to 1977-78. 
) What sums were recovered in each of the same years. 
) What steps are being taken to correct the situation. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 23 May 1979: 
With reference to his Department's Annual Report for 1978, Appendix 8- Geographic distribution of Australian aid 1977-78, for what purposes was aid provided to (a) Uganda, (b) Argentina, (c) Chile, (d) El Salvador, (e) Afghanistan, (f) Indonesia, (g) Iran, (h) Iraq, (i) Jordan, (j) Kampuchea, (k) Laos and (1) Pakistan. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 29 May 1 979: 
Further to his answer to paragraph (2) (a) of question No. 3887,  (Hansard,  24 May 1979, page 2416), what were the names of the VIP guests of the Government who stayed at Kirribilli House on the dates specified. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 6 June 1 979: 
1 ) Is it a fact that defence force personnel are presently en route to the United Kingdom to participate in the yachting classic called the Admirals Cup. 
Will these officers be crew on the yacht called  Anaconda II. 
What are the names and designations of these officers and what type of leave do they have from their positions. 
How are these officers travelling to the UK. 
5 ) Who paid their fares. 
How was the  Anaconda  //transported to the UK. 
Has the Government leased or purchased the  Anaconda II;  if so, what was the cost to the Commonwealth. 
Has the Government contributed to the refitting and or refurbishing of  Anaconda II;  if so, what was the cost. 
Who owns or owned  Anaconda II. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 6 June 1979: 
Further to his answer to my question No. 3957  (Hansard,  5 June 1979, page 2958), what type of passport does  Sir John  Pagan, Federal  President  of the Liberal Party hold and when was it issued. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 23 May 1979: 
How many foreign vessels have been seized by the Government for fishing in Australian waters during the years 1970-71 to 1977-78. 
Where were these vessels seized and what were their registered names. 
What were the names of the owners of the vessels seized. 
How long were the vessels held before they were disposed of. 
How were they disposed of. 
For what price were they sold and what were the names of the purchasers. 
7 ) Are there any vessels now awaiting disposal. 
If so, who owns the vessels awaiting disposal and where are they located. 
When will these vessels be disposed of. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 5 April 1979: 
1 ) What sum was fraudulently obtained from the Commonwealth Banking Corporation by (a) cheque passing, (b) savings withdrawals, (c) loans and (d) credit card fraud, during each of the years 1975-76 to 1977-78. 
2 ) How much was recovered in each year. 
What steps have been taken to correct this situation. 
How much did it cost the Government to investigate and replace stolen Government cheques during each of the years 1975-76 to 1977-78. 
) How many arrests have been made in connection with the offences in part ( 1 ). 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 22 May 1979: 
Can he say whether the United States of America Senate voted on 7 May 1 979 to put warning labels on all bottles of liquor containing more than 24 per cent of alcohol by volume. 
) If so, will the Australian Government take steps to follow the lead given by the US Senate. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 23 May 1 979: 
1 ) How many foreign vessels have been seized by the Government for fishing in Australian waters during the years 1970-71 to 1977-78. 
Where were these vessels seized and what were their registered names. 
What were the names of the owners of the vessels seized. 
How long were the vessels held before they were disposed of. 
) How were they disposed of. 
For what price were they sold and what were the names of the purchasers. 
7 ) Are there any vessels now awaiting disposal. 
If so, who owns the vessels awaiting disposal and where are they located. 
When will these vessels be disposed of. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 23 May 1979: 
1 ) How many persons in each State and Territory have received compensation for medical negligence in treatment during the years 1975-76 to date. 
In what particular medical area did this negligence occur. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 23 May 1979: 
1 ) Is he able to state how many franchised outlets in each State and Territory does the McDonald Corporation have. 
If so, in each State and Territory what is the average age of staff employed at McDonald's and what is the minimum wage paid by this company to (a) juniors, (b) seniors and (c) management, in the categories of (i) casual, (ii) permanent and (iii) temporary staff. 
Is there a uniform charge for the products sold by McDonald 's in Australia. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 5 June 1979: 
1 ) Who investigates allegations of charges of graft within his Department. 
Is it a departmental offence. 
How many investigations of alleged forms of dishonesty have been undertaken within the Department in each year since 1975. 
What was the result. 
5 ) Has his attention been drawn to a report concerning an illegal immigrant couple of Chinese origin, resident in Australia 3 years, who have been persuaded to pay $10 000 to a person in authority in Sydney to obtain Australian residence, without success or hope. 
If so, will the defrauded parties receive sympathetic consideration or amnesty if they were to come out of hiding and expose the persons guilty of this exploitation. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon  notice, on 6 June 1979: 
Is it a fact that the United Penticostal Church in Wyong, New South Wales, will receive a grant from the Commonwealth to buy land to open a rehabilitiation centre for alcoholics; if so, what will be the value of the grant and what is the proposed address of the centre. 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice, on 6 June 1 979: 
1 ) Is his Department arranging for alterations estimated to cost $6,000 to be undertaken in the office of the Government Whip in the House of Representatives during the forthcoming Parliamentary adjournment. 
If so, what will be the nature of the alterations. 
I can understand the concern of the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Carlton).  I would be equally as concerned if a former member of Hitler's SS had infiltrated the Australian Labor Party. I would like to see an independent body set up to establish the facts but not to be tried by the people of the honourable member's own party. 
I want to speak on a matter that concerns me as a boat owner and which, I hope, concerns every member of this House, in particular Government members. The matter I wish to raise in the House tonight relates to the increase in licence, fees for harbour mobile radios and base stations. The fees have increased from $6 per unit in 1974 to $37.50 per unit at the present time. For the benefit of fellow members, a harbour marine radio is restricted in that special conditions apply to its use. The special conditions stipulate that messages shall be confined to matters relating to the safety of vessels in such inshore areas, including search and rescue operations, position reports and tide information. Most responsible boat owners treat the two-way radio with respect as they realise that it is their life line to shore. I, as well as other boat users, do not use the two-way radio indiscriminately 
There are a couple of points I wish to make. A land based citizen band operator can register five units at a cost of $25, whereas boat owners must pay, due to the Government increasing the fees, $37 for each unit. Again land based CB operators have access to both AM and sideband allowing them at least 18 frequencies, whilst marine operators have four frequencies which are not exclusively marine as they are also issued to farmers, contractors, race tracks and fete organisations. Why then this discrimination? It is apparent that the Government has put a price on safety. This action is deplorable. If anything, the Government should have considered reducing the licence fees or bringing them into line with land based operators. Pleasure boat owners should be encouraged to fit ship-to-shore radios to their craft, not as the Government has donediscouraged them- thumbing its nose at safety. I would expect that honourable members from Tasmania, especially the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman),  would be equally as protesting to his Government as I am now. Tasmanians are particularly well known for their use of the sea in small boats. 
Many boat owners belong to clubs, be they boating, fishing or social. These club users run their own radio schedules and control all boats within their clubs. They make sure that all club boats at sea have returned to shore before closing down radio contact in the area. I might add that most boat users are more than willing to help fellow boat users in difficulty. It is obvious that craft in difficulty with radio are easier to find than those without. I hope the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  will see fit to reconsider this increase. 
Another matter I wish to raise tonight is the matter of the $24,000 which the Government so swiftly donated to the appeal for the families of the victims of the Fastnet tragedy. There is no doubt that the Fastnet race was a disaster, but it is not, as  Newsweek  of 27 July 1979 said, expected to put much of a dent in the enthusiasm of ocean racers'. If this is so why did the Government feel so free with the taxpayers' money? The $24,000 would pay for three jobs for a year for the unemployed. Did the yachting fraternity request the Government's action? I do not think so. I think I know the average sailor well enough to say that he would have been happy to pass the hat around in his club. He would have been happy to donate. What the Government was doing was protecting its own interests. What this $24,000 represents is a further donation to the already privileged class, this time the wealthy, ocean-racing yachtsmen, the Syd Fischers, the Hardys. Why did not the Government step forward to offer financial help to the families of the two men who lost their lives whilst participating in the recent Repco rally? They were not participating for the honour and glory. They were participating for the good of their fellow man, for charity. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder! The honourable member's time has expired. 

It was regrettable to have to listen to the honourable member for Dundas  (Mr Ruddock)  endeavouring to defend the indefensible, the Budget of his Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and Treasurer  (Mr Howard).  No doubt, ever desperate for the Cabinet, he stands by his Prime Minister even in his declining years. He reminds me of the twentythird Psalm which states. 
He  restoreth  my soul: he  leadeth  me in the paths of righteousness for his name's sake. 
The honourable member for Dundas in the whole of his speech did not make one reference to the unfortunate 500,000 unemployed people in our nation today. Did they escape his mind altogether or has he no feeling for them? I say that he has no feeling. That is typical of a Tory no matter where he is. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The honourable member for Isaacs will withdraw the term 'lie'. He has heard the rulings of  Mr Speaker  with regard to its use against members. 

 Mr Isaacs I withdraw it but 
We have had four years of Fraserism and five Fraser Budgets, and look at the mess that we are in. This type of Budget has been virtually described by an American political journalist as a humming bird. The Government's economic policies, like the humming bird, fly into the future backwards. That is what this Budget is doing to the Australian people. The latest effort at economic management can best be described as a non-event. The strategists of the Budget can best be described as confidence men. The Government is attempting to con the Australian electorate. I refer to the Prime Minister, the Treasurer, the economic decision makers who sit opposite and members of the coalition parties. I must not forget to mention those people at the Liberal Party headquarters, particularly  Mr Tony  Eggleton who, if the rumours are true, is soon to be knighted for loyal and faithful service to the Party. He will be  Sir Tony.  These people have always considered themselves born to rule and to lead. These find upstanding blue bloods have proved to be the greatest economic mismanagers since time immemorial. 
The Fraser Government is on its last legs. The Gallup polls are proving that to the Australian people. The plug has been pulled out and now we are sinking into the veritable kitchen sink because the Government has lied to the Australian electorate. I say to  Mr Fraser  that he has overextended the truth. The Australian people will not be conned; they are too smart. They have woken up. The Government cannot con them any longer. 
I was referring to  Mr Fraser  but before I had time to say that he is the Prime Minister the honourable member for Holt took a point of order. The Prime Minister has overextended the truth. The Australian people will not be conned any longer. They are too smart. Neither  Mr Fraser  nor any Prime Minister - 
The right honourable the Prime Minister cannot deceive the Australian electorate any longer. This might well be my last speech on a Budget before I retire from the Federal Parliament but it will also be the last speech on a Budget for many people on the other side of the House. At least I will be retiring from the Parliament voluntarily. The voting public has come of age. People will not be treated as fools. After four years of Fraserism the people are waking up. Total devastation awaits the Government at the next poll. At least 30 members of the Government will not be here after the next election. The community is fed up. The popularity of the leader of the Government has sunk to an all-time low. He has a credibility gap as wide as the Great Australian Bight. If honourable members opposite want to 'smarten up', to use the Prime Minister's own words, they will have to get rid of him. If they want the Australian public to take any of the Government's policies seriously the Prime Minister will have to curb his enthusiasm for blatant over-extension of the truth. In 1975 he promised us full economic prosperity in three years. It is now 1979. Time marches on. The Australian people regard that statement as a farce. Let us look at the Prime Minister's track record. On unemployment he said: 
Unemployment will fall from February 1978 and keep falling. 
On inflation he said: 
Inflation at an annual rate of 5 per cent is within our reach by mid- 1979. 
On health insurance he said: 
We will maintain Medibank and ensure that the standard of health care does not decline. 
On tax and wage indexation he said: 
We will fully index personal income tax; the Coalition Government will support wage indexation. 
On tax cuts he said: 
The Government will bring taxes down further- not increase them. 
On interest rates he said: 
Interest rates have begun to fall and they will keep falling. 
On pensions he said: 
Pensions will be increased automatically in line with price rises- twice a year. 
It took the Prime Minister four years to keep the last promise. He would not have kept that but for the rumblings of mutiny in the ranks of the back benchers of his Party. Tommy Smith would not have the Prime Minister in his stable. He would have sent him back to his owners long ago for running a crook race. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! There is no point of order. 
God knows how long we will have to wait for all his promises to be kept. This third Howard Budget will increase unemployment, inflation and average income tax. It has not provided leadership, initiative or purpose. In today's Sydney  Sun  there is an article on taxes which states: 
Taxes outstrip earnings. Income tax has risen faster than wages over the past two years for the majority of Australians, an authoritative economic research organisation has found. 
The tax increase has hit hardest at single income families. 
For a man on the average wage of about $230 a week ($12,000 a year) with a dependent wife, income tax has increased by 24 per cent. 
A single person on the same income is paying 20.8 per cent more in tax. 
The figures come from the respected Melbourne Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research. 
This article was written not spontaneously, but after a week's careful deliberation by the writer. Of course, anything that is detrimental to the Liberal Party is written by non-reputable people. If an article was favourable to the Government members of the Liberal Party would praise it. 
The only matter on which the Budget positively told us was that inflation and unemployment would rise. Professor John Nevile, Director of the Centre for Applied Economic Research at the University of New South Wales, called this Budget the most contractive Budget in the last 30 years. He said that it was not an overextension of the truth to say that we have the highest unemployment level since the 1930s. It is beyond me how the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  can talk about a continued economic recovery when unemployment and inflation are rising. With inflation running at over 10 per cent a year, wage earners will pay more tax this year. The Treasurer's own figures predict a 9 per cent rise in wages. There is not a worker in Australia who will not be paying more tax this year. 
In contrast, the wealthy and the privileged get away with massive tax evasion. The Treasurer admits that $433m in tax is avoided under schemes that the Government has declared unlawful and that the Government does not expect to collect that money this financial year. He also says that a further $250m will be lost to revenue through evasion schemes which are still legal. Why does the Treasurer not declare these evasion schemes illegal? He has the power to do it. He does not do it because he is afraid that he will step on the toes of too many people who support the Liberal political ideology. He has to give time to those born to rule, those born to influence, those born to lead and the multinationals to dispose of their ill-gotten gains in other areas. Once again we see the Government protecting the interests of the ruling elite and not the majority of the people. 
The Budget papers admit that unemployment is rising and will continue to rise. There will be at least 50,000 more jobless by December; yet the Government treats these jobless with contempt. In contrast to the half million unemployed, we have the Government's indulgence of itself and friends. Their personal greed is mind-boggling. I thank my colleague,  Senator Walsh,  for some of the following information. The Beggs, in-laws of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  were fully compensated by the State Electricity Commission of Victoria for their bushfire losses. They received a $50,000 loan at 4 per cent interest. The money for that loan was supplied by the  Mr and Mrs Joneses,  homebuyers in Victoria, who pay 1 1 per cent on their home loans. Then the Prime Minister spent $20m of taxpayers' money for his flying home-away-from-home, two former Qantas Boeing 707 aircraft were converted for the VIP fleet. Very expensive modifications were needed. The Prime Minister said he purchased them on the strength of the  Sir Robert  Mark's report. The Prime Minister is a man obsessed with his own self-importance and with the delusion that he is a statesman of international stature. 
Then we have the new High Court of Australia. The cost of this new building has been expanded by some millions at the personal whim of the Chief Justice,  Sir Garfield  Barwick. Only today, the Melbourne  Age  reported that the Government will set aside more than $2m to furnish and provide art works for the building. The list goes on and on. There is the  Sir Robert  Menzies Memorial Trust. There is the Sinclair affair. There was the Lynch affair and the matter of Associated Securities Limited. 
Never a James affair. I would never take you out. There was the protection offered to the twelfth man in Patrick Partners. The catchcry of Government members is: 'Look after your own.' They do it unashamedly. There was the Garland affair, the Robinson affair and the Withers affair, all scandals sufficient to bring down the government in any other democratic country in the Western World. If the Prime Minister and the Treasurer should ever wish to resign their present positions, I would suggest that perhaps Peter Clyne would like to take advantage of their financial juggling ability. 
I wish now to say a few words about the rumoured closure of the Kurri Kurri Hospital. Government members are laughing. I hope that my people will be listening to Government members laughing about the Kurri Kurri Hospital. This hospital was built with the sweat, blood and tears of the coal miners at the turn of the century because of the shocking accidents in the coal mines. Very few of the honourable members opposite have any sympathy for them. Only recently 13 miners were killed in the Appin colliery. I believe this is in the electorate of the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume).  I do not know whether he showed any genuine sympathy. I was reared in the coal mining areas and I know the hardships that are suffered there. But because of the cutback in health funds by this Government- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! There is no point of order. 
-Thank you for your impartiality,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  Whilst this Budget had lifted health expenditure to a minor degree, the last mini-Budget severely slashed millions of dollars from health funds, with the result that many hospitals in New South Wales and other States will be seriously curbed in their activities. The Kurri Kurri Hospital was built with the blood, sweat and tears of miners, who in 1904 struck a levy on their wages to build this hospital. Miners now find it is to be closed as a hospital for acute cases and is to continue as a geriatric hospital. The people of Kurri are correctly indignant. Last Saturday week 4,000 people assembled in the main street of Kurri to protest at the proposed closure of this hospital as a result of the Federal Government's slashing of health funds. The hospital has served miners and their families since 1904. It is now to be turned into a geriatric hospital - 
It is not. It is a result of the slashing of Federal Government funds. A former miner who died recently was well known on the coal fields. He explained the miners' cause in his poem 'Blood on the coal'. In part that poem stated: 
Come down and breathe the dank air, the foul air, the rank air, 
Fill up your lungs with coal dust, disease dust for proof; 
Come down and see the cave man, the slave man, the brave man 
Risk life to save his mates' life beneath a falling roof. 
Every member of this Parliament should know of the struggles of the coal miners. This hospital that was built in the heart of the South Maitland coal fields with miners' subscriptions is now to be changed from an acute hospital to a geriatric hospital. 
There is a strong possibility that in the next decade the Richmond main, the Pelaw main and the Stanford Merthyr mines could be re-opened due to the soaring world prices in oil. The possibility of coal liquefaction is expected to come into its own. These mines have been proven to have suitable coal for coal liquefaction. If they re-open, which I believe they will, there is no hospital in the immediate vicinity to which injured coal miners can be raced to receive medical care. They will have to be taken 10 or 12 miles to the Cessnock hospital or eight or nine miles to the Maitland hospital. Everyone knows that the possibility of saving the life of an injured miner or anyone else who is injured in a serious accident becomes greater if a hospital is in close proximity. 
I mention some of the great coal mining fatalities to spell out and justify the desirability of having hospitals in the close vicinity of this dangerous industry. Recently, only three weeks ago, 13 miners were killed at the Appin colliery which, as I said early, I believe is in the electorate of Macarthur. Further back in history, at the Newvale colliery on the outskirts of my electorate, near the electorate of Robertson, there was a surface fall- a roof fall in mine- and eight miners were killed. I refer right back to the times of the Wonthaggi mine disaster when 13 miners were killed, all of whom were married with families.  Dr George  of the Joint Coal Board in a report to the Government of New South Wales said that in 1 946 in the Bulli mine, of 430 underground miners, 77 had ceased work since 1935 because of dusted lungs. 
I believe this Government, if it has to, should give special grants to hospitals in coal mining areas in order to keep them open so that they can operate as hospitals for the treatment of acute injuries. That is one area that should be privileged.  Mr George  Booth worked in the coal mines and was a former member of the State Parliament for many years. He received a letter from a woman on the coalfields where I was reared. It said: 
My husband was a miner for 27 years. He is dead now. It was dust and not old age that killed him. I saw him waste away. I saw him die. If it weren't for the dust he'd be here now. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 29 August 1979: 
Have the day to day flight operations of the F111 become known officially within his Department as adventure training. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 29 August 1979: 
1 ) Further to his answer to question No. 4225  (Hansard,  7 June 1 979, page 3168) what was the nature of the refitting carried out by the Navy on  Anaconda II  so that she could meet the special regulations and safety specifications for the Fastnet race. 
Did  Anaconda II  take part in the Fastnet race; if not, why was it necessary to spend $27,300 on refitting. 
At the completion of the Parmelia Yacht Race will  Mr Grubic,  owner of  Anaconda II,  be able to purchase from the Commonwealth the sails and equipment supplied by the Commonwealth. 
If so what will be the cost to  Mr Grubic. 
Will  Mr Grubic  also recompense the Government for the refitting of  Anaconda II. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 29 August1979: 
Will he provide a breakdown of costs for the Parliamentary delegations to (a) India and South East Asia,1978, (b) Japan, 1978, (c) Europe and the USSR, 1978, (d) France, 1978, (e) Africa, 1979, (f) ASEAN countries and South Korea, 1979, (g) France, 1979 and (h) Southern Rhodesia, 1979. 
I was anxious to speak on this legislation because I and the people of my electorate are very strongly opposed to allowing the powers of a political police force to bug telephones and to put bugging devices in the homes or offices or anywhere else where this police force considers it can obtain information that may be beneficial to it. This legislation contemplates unprecedented steps in the annals of Australia. I am fearful of the infringements to the civil rights, liberties and freedoms of the Australian people that have been upheld since federation. One only has to attend an Anzac Day commemoration each year. We are then reminded of those who died in two world wars, the Korean War and the Vietnam War and who died for freedom, liberty and our way of life. This legislation virtually contemplates a way of life that Australians have died for in two world wars, the Korean war and the Vietnam war. Australians, many of whom fought in these wars to overthrow fascist regimes and to protect the rights and freedoms of the individual, are now being placed in an insidious position of having to look at the prospect of a new form of fascism in their own backyards of clean, respected Australia. 
We must admit that secret police forces exist in many nations of the world. They exist to protect the interests of the ruling elite and not the majority of the people. I would have liked to have spoken more strongly about certain countries that I visited in South East Asia recently but due to the fact that I was a guest it would have been improper for me to censure the governments of the nations which I visited. I am certainly hopeful that Australia will never curtail the freedoms or liberties of the people as has been done in some of the countries in South East Asia. It is my view that capitalism, based on exploitation of the masses and motivated by personal greed, cannot survive without a secret police force and that is why we have these secret organisations. One only has to remind himself of the program which concerned the Bolivian tin miners shown on television a few weeks ago. 
Shameful. I cannot understand why more protests are not reaching members of this Parliament appealing to them and to the Australian Broadcasting Commission to show this program three or four more times, displaying the living standards of the Bolivian tin miners who are told at the point of a gun to get back in the mines and mine the tin ore. I obtained a transcript of that program. One man 34 years of age and another 28 years of age had been examined by doctors. They were told they were dying because they had tuberculosis and miner's silicosis. They were asked what they intended to do and they said that they would go back to work in the mine. The television interviewer asked: 'But you are dying with silicosis and T.B. ' and one man said: 'Yes I know but if I don't go back to work my wife and children will have nothing to eat'. Through you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I ask the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)  whether my memory of what was said during that television program is correct. 
Expectation of life averaged 34 years. Thank you. Why? Because that country has laws similar to those this Government intends to inflict on the Australian people by this ASIO legislation. I hope that the miners of this country will not fall to that level of standard of living. The honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr West)  represents coal miners. Our coal miners have been able to a degree to avoid silicosis and dusted lungs through the activities of sympathetic government and militant trade unionism. 
No. I am proud to represent the Hunter Valley. The honourable member for Paterson will be speaking more strongly in favour of the miners when his electorate is enveloped by the development of the coal mines in the upper Hunter Valley in his electorate. Honourable members should watch his change of attitude.  His  sympathies will change from the old cockey to the coal miner as the coal resources in the Hunter Valley are developed. Unfortunately the experience of democratic societies of security organisations has not been good. Let us look at the Central Intelligence Agency in America, the kindred body of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. I think it was mentioned only once in this Parliament or in the Australian Press, when ASIO was under debate here some time ago, that the ASIO headquarters in Melbourne was visited by, I think, Richard Helms, the head of the CIA in the United States. Let me develop further my argument on the activities of the CIA in the United States. Philip Agee said in his book  Inside the Company  that the CIA operations mainly consist of" control, guidance and support of individuals and organisations in the battle against communism. Who would know better than Philip Agee who was a senior officer in the CIA and who defected? I regret that the Labor Government in Britain caused him to leave Britain; it would not give him amnesty. 
Both the CIA and the Federal Bureau of Investigation, under J. Edgar Hoover, were obsessed with the battle against communism. Robert Francis Kennedy, when AttorneyGeneral of the United States in the early 1960s, saw communism as a threat to the United States- but not in the United States. After nearly 20 years this is still the case. That view is spreading to Australia, more so now than before. It is sad to note that the FBI hierarchy did not share Kennedy's view. In 1959 the FBI office in New York City had over 400 agents working on communism and only four agents actively working on organised crime. I ask you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  in all the fairness for which you are noted: Which was the greater evil to society? The CIA activities at home included the following: Political surveillance of hundreds of thousands of citizens and hundreds of organisations which have never been charged with any violation of law; selective investigations and prosecutions directed at political enemies; campaigns of preventative action designed to disrupt and destroy groups or individuals through forgery; false accusations; fostering dissension; extensive use of plainly illegal methods, such as unauthorised wire tapping and bugging, burglaries, mail opening, even assault and violence; the creation of a police apparatus of dossiers; undercover agents, informers and spies. This is what the CIA did in the United States. 
I can tell you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  from practical experience, that the most dangerous part of law enforcement is the handling of informants and phizgigs. They will turn on you like a snake. They will without scruple betray every one and any one. This is one matter I am particularly concerned about. I would like this Parliament to know how much ASIO pays to informants. It is very difficult to find out. Nobody and no organisation in the United States was immune from the CIA: Not labour unions, not youth and student groups, not the media, not the professionals- the journalists, the lawyers and doctors- not the business organisations, not the politicians nor the political parties. Let us look at its activities abroad: It engaged in covert actions, the training of paramilitary organisations, attempted assassinations and other forms of violence. Always its motivations stemmed from its obsession with communism. 
The CIA, like the FBI, was, and probably still is, obsessed with communism. Remember the many attempts on the life of Fidel Castro, the man who led his people out of the clutches of capitalism and American imperialism. Cuba today has made huge strides forward. Today the people have education, health care and adequate diet. Big steps have been made in improving housing. I remember that years ago I got up in this Parliament and defended Fidel Castro after I visited Cuba in 1962. I stand by my remarks today. He is one of the greatest men this century, for what he has done for Cuba. I entirely accept responsibility for that statement. Look at Marshall Baillieu who was reared on frogs legs in aspic. Yes, a Baillieu, of course. He would not know what to do if he was deprived of the luxuries on which he was reared. Oh, a Baillieu. 
-Castro is a what? 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The House will come to order. I ask the honourable member for Hunter to come back to the Bill. 
-The Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs well knows that the United States drove him into the arms of communism. The Minister well knows that there were 650,000 permanently unemployed in little Cuba, which had a population of six million. The Minister knows that rents and telephone charges in Cuba were the highest in the world. The Minister knows - 
-No? I think that the Minister is honourable enough to know but not honourable enough to admit it. Farmers had to pay 65 per cent to 70 per cent of their income in rent to landlords in Cuba and could not afford to send their children for medical attention. The learned people on the government side who read selectively should read  Anatomy of a Revolution  by 
Huberman and Sweezy. It gives the mortality rate between 7 and 12 years of age in little Cuba. Before the revolution hook-worms were found to be slithering from the mouths and noses of little children. Hook-worms cannot live on a dead body but they were found slithering from their noses. Government members laugh and are hypocritical about this but these are facts. If they are honourable let them seek to deny those facts printed in that book by Huberman and Sweezy. Castro will do me. If I could do as much for Australia as Castro has done for Cuba I would feel, if I left this Parliament, that I had served the Parliament very well. 
One should look at the Americans' activitiestheir covert actions. They were obsessed with communism. The Senate Committee of Inquiry under  Senator Frank  Church- even the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  would concede in private that this is true- within the last two years established beyond doubt the many attempts by the CIA to take the life of Fidel Castro. It is the kindred body of ASIO. Fidel Castro led his people out of the clutches of capitalism. Cuba is the only country in the Caribbean to have attained these goals. Still today over ISO million persons in other countries are deprived of these benefits. That is the bogey of communism. The people of Cuba have Castro to thank- the man the CIA wanted to exterminate. The CIA began planning his assassination as early as 19S9. 1 did not go to Cuba until 1962. In February 1961 the CIA kindred body to ASIO sent a box of Castro's favorite cigars which was contaminated and delivered by a CIA agent to Cuba. This fact was established, on sworn evidence, by the Frank Church Committee of Inquiry in the United States. This was done with the aim of taking Castro's life. Later a skin diving suit impregnated with poisonous fungus was prepared by the CIA as a gift to Castro. Later still, poison pills and a ball point with a deadly needle were used in the CIA's endeavours to destroy the people's leader in Cuba. We all remember the incident involving the shipload of sugar in the Panama Canal which was found to be impregnated with arsenic and which Cuba was shipping to another communist country, namely, China. Was the CIA responsible? I believe it was. Honourable members opposite can laugh if they like, but let them stand up and deny the facts that I am disclosing to the national Parliament and placing on the record of this Parliament. I do not want to leave this Parliament with my character stained by people saying that I was not prepared to stand up and tell the truth. 
-Is that all the honourable member can say? He is only a log of wood. He ought to leave the Parliament. In 1963 the CIA used a well known underworld figure- an American hoodlum named Giancana- in an effort to assassinate Castro in Cuba. Fortunately it was not successful. I do not deny that every country has the right to protect its own existence. An intelligence gathering agency is necessary for this purpose, provided that is what it is used for. It is absolutely necessary that the Government be supplied with correct information for the proper defence and protection of the country. Some aspects of the CIA's intelligence attempts are cited in an article by Harry Howe Ransom entitled 'CLA: A Modern Frankenstein'. That article tells us of some of the CIA's failures in the intelligence field. It reads: 
The first nuclear bomb test by USSR in 1949, was unexpected, the North Korean attack across the 38th parallel, in June 19S0 was a surprise, as was the later Chinese communist intervention; and the Bay of Pigs expedition by the CIA against Cuba in 1961 was an intelligence failure, in both senses of the word. 
There have been similar failures by ASIO in Australia. The article continues: 
In 1968, American intelligence lost the Soviet Army in Central Europe for two weeks, and President Johnson learned that Russian tanks had invaded Czechoslovakia, not from the CIA, but from the Soviet Ambassador in Washington. 
In the Arab-Israeli War of 1973, there was a real test of the system. Here all the best technology and human skills had been focussed on a known trouble spot. American intelligence failed - 
ASIO would fail also, despite the deprivation of the freedom of the people which is provided for in the legislation now before the Parliament - and the war came as a surprise to unprepared Washington. 
More recently we have seen United States intelligence fail yet again. Only this year Washington was unprepared for the internal turmoil in Iran. I am reminded by one of my colleagues that Jean Seberg, the actress, committed suicide in France this month after years of CIA persecution. Given that 80 per cent of the information that goes into finished intelligence reports is from sources such as scientific and technical journals, political speeches and other public documents- I emphasise that it comes from all public documents- it is not surprising that ASIO stuffed it up. Why then is there the need for secrecy? A certain amount of secrecy is in the nation's interest, but total secrecy is just not on. 
What do we know of ASIO's activities? How well has it learned from its big sister, the CIA? We know that it is the policy of the CIA to help local services, which in this case is ASIO. This has been confirmed by the testimonies of Victor 
Marchetti and Phillip Agee, both of whom are former CIA agents. Christopher Boyce testified at his trial that he became a spy for the Russians because he was outraged at the CIA's activities against the Whitlam Government in 1974 and 1975. We know that ASIO activities involve having surveillance teams for following persons in the streets, observation posts to observe the comings and goings in buildings, multiple forms of photography, access to statistics, police files and information on airline, rail and shipping passengers. What do we know of its interception of mails and its telephone tapping activities? 
Due to the limit of time I must cut my remarks short. I remind you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that before you came into the Parliament- no one would be more mindful of this than the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  if I can jog his active brain- Edward Ward when sitting on the front bench reminded the House in the presence of  Sir Robert  Menzies that  Sir Anthony  Eden wrote in his memoirs, which can be found in the Parliamentary Library, that he had received a letter from  Sir Robert  Menzies after visiting Nasser during the Suez crisis and that  Sir Robert  Menzies wrote: 
Egypt is not only a dictatorship but it has all the earmarks of a police state. The tapping of telephone lines, the installation of microphones, the creation of a vast body of security police- all these things are commonplace. 
As I have said, how times have changed. Now we are virtually creating a police state by this legislation, as Menzies accused the Nasser Government of doing at that time. The honourable member for Moreton will remember that the late Edward Ward M.P. sitting on the front bench in this chamber made this undenied allegation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 29 August 1 979: 
1 ) Is it a fact, as reported in  Newsweek  of 23 July 1979, that the United States of America has cut off aid to Pakistan. 
If the United States of America was satisfied with intelligence reports that the Pakistanis are developing a nuclear weapon and the resultant decision was the complete abandonment of aid, will Australia take similar action; if not, why not. 
It was not my intention to speak in this debate tonight until I heard the remarks of the honourable member for Swan  (Mr Martyr),  who referred to the subject of abortion which I thought after the debate on the Lusher motion in this place would have been buried for all time. Most honourable members on this side of the House respect the honourable member for Swan as a man but we do not always agree with his political statements. Most of us know what motivates the honourable member. It is with a degree of reluctance that I say that I am possibly the only member of parliament in this country, State or Federal, who has had the unpleasant duty of taking dying depositions and declarations from unfortunate women who had been forced to go to a backyard abortionist. Abortion should be- and I believe it isnauseating and reprehensible to every member of this House. It is something that makes the stomach turn even at the very thought of it. But despite that, the trend in the world has been that a women with an unwanted pregnancy, irrespective of the consequences and by whatever methods are available- the backyard abortionist, the darning needle, jumping off a ladder or a thousand other ways- will seek to terminate the unwanted pregnancy. 
Despite the sincerity of the honourable member for Swan, he is not facing up.to the practicalities of the situation. I may agree with him that the avenues for terminating pregnancies in Canberra should be taken out of the hands of private clinics. To my mind private abortion clinics which operate for a profit are reprehensible to every one in this House and every citizen who lives in Canberra. No one should be permitted to make a profit out of the plight of the unfortunate women who have an unwanted pregnancy. There has been a change of attitude in Australia over the last 18 months. We know that the New Zealand Government will not relax the abortion law in that country. The unfortunate New Zealand girls or married women who are determined to terminate their unwanted pregnancy have to find the air fare to enable them to come to Australia to end that pregnancy. 
That should not be the situation but it is a matter for the New Zealand people to force their politicians at the ballot box to take a more practical and realistic view. Even the Catholic church which is the principal religious opponent to modern, safe abortion methods is, I believe, changing its attitude. If not, its people are. An article in the  Canberra Times  of 10 March this year entitled Abortion rate among catholics rising: report' reads: 
Catholic authorities have been given a report which says Catholic women now have abortions at about the same rate as non-Catholics. 
-Does the Minister for Health agree that the most dangerous profession and the most accident prone industry in Australia is coal mining? Is he aware of the great consternation of the people of Kurri Kurri in the electorate of Hunter at the contemplated change in status of their hospital from an acute to a geriatric hospital? This hospital was built with subsidies from miners' wages in 1904 or thereabouts. Will he consider recommending to his Government that special grants be allocated to maintain hospitals in coal mining areas at their present levels? 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 19 September 1979: 
Has his attention been drawn to the British Government's decision to abandon plans to sell off state owned North Sea Oil assets in the form of British National Oil Corporation (BNOC); if so, is he able to say whether the Thatcher Government will now offer the private investor a share in the Corporation. 
What form will this investment take. 
3 ) Will public investment in the Corporation be restricted in any way. 
What form will any restriction take. 
Will the Australian Government consider similar restrictions with regard to the proposal to sell the Ranger project. 
Is the Minister for Foreign Affairs aware of a report that the world is now spending an all-time record of $434,000m on military might? In view of that does the Minister intend to make a statement to the House on this subject, this week being United Nations disarmament week? 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-Yes I do,  Mr Speaker.  I am at a disadvantage because I was not in the House at the commencement of the remarks of the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume).  I wish that the honourable member had paid me the courtesy of notifying me that he intended to raise this matter because I would have been in the House. 
It was spontaneous. I was provoked by what was said by an honourable member. Last night the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr Kerin)  referred to Patrick Partners - 
The reason I made my statement - 
I have been misrepresented in the allegations made by the honourable member for Macarthur. 
-In the allegations that I made unfair or untrue allegations about him. He was a director of Patrick Partners. Four of the directors went bankrupt and he was successful - 
As far as he is concerned, I withdraw nothing. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs upon notice, on 26 September, 1 979: 
How many times and on what dates since December 1975 has  Mr A.  Eggleton been issued with an official passport. 
-Through the Government Whip I paid the courtesy to the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume)  of letting him know that I was going to make some reference to his attitude in this House. Yesterday I was accused by the honourable member for Macarthur of telling a deliberate lie in this House and of making a cowardly attack upon him as well as reflecting on his integrity. At the outset I wish to deny that I made a cowardly attack upon the honourable member or that I reflected upon his integrity. This would be very difficult for me to do, as it would be for any other member of this House. Before one can attack the integrity of another, the other party must first possess integrity. If it can be pointed out to me that I did reflect upon the honourable member's integrity, I will be only too ready,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  as you readily know, to apologise. 
It is not unusual for the honourable member for Macarthur to claim misrepresentations, especially when one touches upon his activities with the former mighty financial giant, Patrick Partners, which at the time of its crash recorded the largest financial loss in Australia's history. I welcome the honourable member for Macarthur to the House. Honourable members will recognise the sensitivity of the honourable member for Macarthur.  His  sensitivity is apparent through association with his former company's corrupt financial operations. When the very name of Patrick Partners is mentioned in the House in his presence, he rises, jumps and is virtually up and down like a toilet seat at a mixed party. On or about 23 March 1977 he accused the then Leader of the Opposition- to use some of his own words recorded in  Hansard-  of 'making vile accusations', 'making a scurrilous attack' and making 'patent untruths and totally untrue statements'. The Leader of the Opposition was quoting from a report by  Mr Masterton,  an inspector appointed under the New South Wales Securities Industries Act from 1 July 1974 to 6 August 1975, to look into the activities relating to the management of Patrick Partners, of which the honourable member for Macarthur was a director. He is known as the elusive twelfth man. He is very sensitive. 
Let us look at his association with Vam Ltd. The honourable member for Macarthur was one of six financial journalists employed on five daily newspapers with a great deal of influence. I inform the honourable member for Bendigo who is attempting to interject that he can obtain this information from these books in my possession. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 19 September 1979: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to an article in the  Age  of 31 August 1979 regarding a Taiwan/Australia fishing pact; if so, is there a new fishing agreement between Taiwan and Australia. 
What are the rights afforded Taiwan in the agreement. 
When was this agreement signed and who were the signatories. 
Were any officers of his Department involved in negotiations prior to the agreement being endorsed; if so, who were they and what part did they play in negotiations. 
Do Taiwanese fishing boats now apply for permits to fish in Australian waters. 
If so, how much do these permits cost and who collects the fees. 
Is he able to say what is the Kaohsiung Fishing Boat Commercial Guild. 
8 ) Who operates this Guild. 
Will the Guild control the Taiwanese vessels fishing off Australia; if so, how will this be done, and what view does the Australian Government hold on this. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1979: 
1 ) Do Australia-based officers live in leased residential accommodation when at Australian missions overseas. 
Are these residential accommodation costs met (a) partially or (b) in full by the Government. 
What was the breakdown of costs for leased residential accommodation for each Department represented at all Australian missions as at 1 0 October 1979. 
I take great pleasure today in participating in this grievance debate and in raising a matter which is really covered by a grievance debate. The case which I will present to the Parliament and the Australian people grieves not only me but also my constituents of Hunter. This case attacks the very roots of our democratic system. I believe that members of this Parliament should take every opportunity, when cases such as this are brought to their notice, to present the facts to this House to preserve peoples ' democracy. 
I refer to two of my constitutents who are Chinese, a  Mr Sui  Kei Samson Man and his wife Yuen Ling Rositta Chan.  Mr Man  was born in Canton, China on 29 August 1956. He came to Australia by air from Hong Kong on 1 1 March 1 976 on a two weeks visitors visa. In Hong Kong,  Mr Man  was courting his wife.  His  wife was born in Canton, China on 6 March 1 956. Like her husband, she went legally to Hong Kong in 1962 where she resided until coming to Australia in August 1978 on a temporary visa. In Australia they lived together and worked in cafes.  Mrs Chan  has since given birth to a son who was born in the Maitland Hospital. She and  Mr Man  were married in an Anglican Church in the electorate of Hunter. 

 Mrs Chan advised that she applied to the Australian immigration authorities in Sydney for a further six months extension visa on 25 July 1978. 1 understand it has not been granted. She has informed me that she sent her Hong Kong identity card to the Sydney Immigration Office on 3 August 1978, addressed to a Miss Sacharczuk. I hope that the facts of this case will arouse the revulsion and objections of every member of this House. This unfortunate couple, now illegally in Australia, have been reduced to the state of being poor and penniless as a result of what I consider to be exploitation by a Chinese solicitor in Sydney who has, if I may use the Australian vernacular, ripped off this unfortunate Chinese couple of about $ 10,000. 
-It is $10,000-after promising them that he would gain them permanent residence in Australia. In my view, this couple do not meet the present requirements of the guidelines for legal entry into Australia. However, I honestly believe that they have the sympathy of the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  who is carefully considering their case at present. I was reluctant to mention this case today but I did so because, as honourable members will be aware, probably this will be the last grievance debate in this session. The Chinese solicitor is  Mr W.  J. Lee of Selborne Chambers, 13th floor, 1 74 Phillip Street, Sydney. 
He sought payments in cash, and I have photostat copies of a receipt for payment of $1,000 in cash by this couple and another receipt in Chinese for $6,500 paid by my constituents to the Chinese solicitor. 
He charged them this money on the pretence that he was going to have their Australian residence legalised. I wrote to the Minister on 9 July 1979. As I said earlier, he has this case sympathetically under review. According to my constituents, the solicitor has asked for another $ 1 ,000 on completion of the case. He has since informed my constituents that they should no longer come to his office or telephone him, that he would telephone them when he had information for them. But, as they pointed out to me, they have no telephone. How can the Chinese solicitor contact them when they have no telephone and he does not know where they are living? The Chinese couple were not anxious for me to raise the matter in Parliament because they fear that the solicitor may organise some injury to them.  Mrs Chan  is fearful of going back to Hong Kong because her parents and relatives have left Hong Kong to live in the United States. 
The serious part of the whole matter, which I emphasise that I am most reluctant to believe, is that when this large sum of money was obtained by this Chinese solicitor for the reasons that I have stated he said, in the  words  of my constituents: 'I only get about $1,000 out of this. There are two people in the Immigration office who have got to be paid and someone in Canberra'. I submit this alleged statement for information only. 
It could be a scandal, but in my view it is not. I have implicit faith and I believe every other member of the Opposition has implicit faith in the integrity and honesty of the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. I do not have the same faith in the staff of the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs in Sydney. If what this solicitor said is untrue, it was a deplorable and outrageous thing for him to say. I believe it to be untrue. Furthermore, I hope that the fidelity section of the Law Society of New South Wales will do something of a positive nature to see that my constituents are substantially reimbursed the large sum of money involved. They have been exploited by this Chinese solicitor in Sydney who, I believe at this stage, is unscrupulous. 
I hope that the Australian Taxation Office will look into the affairs of this man. My constituents tell me that before they entered the office of the Chinese solicitor another Chinaman was going in with $7,000 in cash to pay the solicitor for some litigation. I therefore suspect that that Chinaman was being exploited also. When one hears of these things occurring in Australia one can well understand why the overwhelming population of China sought another form of government under Mao Tse-tung. Are we parliamentarians going to allow this situation to continue in this country or are we going to display the guts that are necessary to eradicate these menaces in Australia? I notice a Liberal member opposite laughing at me. I have never yet heard him get up in this Parliament and report a filthy scandal. Apparently he has something in his own cupboard that he is afraid that he could be hit with. In conclusion, it is also unfortunate that these things have to be disclosed in Parliament as many of the criminals in gaol, whom society is endeavouring to rehabilitate, are listening to these debates. How it must fail to facilitate their rehabilitation! 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Attorney-General. At the conclusion of the proceedings privately launched by solicitor Danny Sankey against Whitlam and others, did the court award certain costs against Sankey? If so, has any attempt been made by Sankey to pay those costs? If not, has the Commonwealth made any endeavour to recover them? 
It is not sub judice. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 26 September 1979: 
How do non-government schools account to the Government for money given in government aid. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 13 November 1979: 
1 ) Are claims lodged at Medibank offices in Woden, Australian Capital Territory, processed in Canberra and then forwarded to Sydney for checking before the claimant can receive the refund. 
2 ) What is the purpose of this procedure and when was it instigated. 
What is the average waiting period for a claimant before a refund cheque is posted. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 26 September 1 979: 
1 ) What Liberal and National Country Party (a) Ministers or ex-Ministers (b) Members or ex-Members, (c) Senators or ex-Senators and (d) prominent officials or exofficials, have been appointed by the Commonwealth Government to (i) judicial positions (ii) diplomatic or trade posts, (iti) remunerative positions on statutory authorities or (iv) any other office of profit under the Crown since December 1975. 
What was the (a) date of appointment, (b) term of appointment and (c) salary on appointment in each case. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1 979: 
What has been the cost of improving existing, or the implementation of new, security arrangements at (a) Government House, Canberra, (b) The Lodge, (c) Kirribilli House and (d) Admiralty House since December 1 975. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 2 1 November 1979: 
Has his attention been drawn to my speech of 8 November 1979 during the grievance debate which concerned the activities of a Phillip Street barrister,  Mr W.  J. Lee  (Hansard,  page 2786). 
If so, will he make available to senior investigating officers of the Taxation Office, who may be interested in the activities of  Mr Lee,  all departmental files on which  Mr Lee  has made representations during the last 10 years. 
Will he make a statement indicating the availability of these files. 
Will he also provide the Taxation Office with a list of the names of the Chinese nationals resident in Hong Kong on whose behalf  Mr Lee  made representations to his Department but which were not successful. 
