I draw the attention of the Minister for External Affairs to the invasion of Laos by North Vietnam and a statement by the Laotian Prune Minister that North Vietnam is aiming to take over his country. Is the Minister able to inform the House of the number of North Vietnamese troops engaged in the attack on Laos? Is he aware that  Sir Robert  Thompson,  President  Nixon's adviser on Vietnam, who is at present in Australia, has suggested that Communist attacks could topple Asian countries one after another? Are we in fact witnessing the so-called domino theory which is so often derided by the Opposition in this Parliament? 
There have been so many things dragged into the debate on this statement that the whole pur pose of the statement is being lost. There has been red herring after red herring. The main purpose of the statement was to clear a public servant of an imputation which had been made against him by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  I was in New Guinea with other members of the Government soon after the Leader of the Opposition had been there. I know Harry West. I know the sort of work he has done in Rabaul and the sort of man he is. It is a very difficult job to do and he has done it well. I am very much concerned that a public servant, a man who is doing the best he can for the Territory and for Australia, has been attacked in this House where as a public servant he cannot defend himself. The public servant must be cleared. The Leader of the Opposition has said virtually that he was kicked out of his job in Rabaul because he was incompetent. The Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  and the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Barnes)  have given an assurance to the House that this was not so. I believe the Prime Minister and I believe the Minister for Territories, and knowing Harry West I could understand why it would not be so. Harry West has done an excellent job up there and I think it is most unfair, in fact it is dirty, to attack him in this way in this House where he cannot speak for himself. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I would like to congratulate the honourable members for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  and Burke (Mr Keith Johnson) on two very thoughtful and well prepared speeches. I wish them both well during their stay in this Parliament. I was pleased, particularly, with the honesty with which the honourable member for Burke reaffirmed the Socialist platform of the Australian Labor Party because so often this has been swept under the carpet, particularly at election times. 
I wish to speak in this debate on a matter taking place at this very moment, one which I regard as being of considerable concern to Australia. I refer to the invasion of Laos by the armies of North Vietnam. Today the Australian' newspaper devoted an entire page to the war in Laos. The heading at the top of the page was: 'Communist troops poised outside Royal city - 3-front advance threatens Luang Prabang.' It is estimated that at least 50,000 North Vietnamese troops are involved in the invasion of Laos. They have occupied the Plain of Jars and have pressed westward to Muong Soui after capturing Xieng Khouang, the airfield. At the same time Chinese Communists are in the process of constructing a first-class military road from the Chinese border through Laos to the border of Thailand. This, of course, is causing considerable concern to the Thai Government which knows that along with Laos and Cambodia, Thailand would be the next to go if the Communists succeeded in the takeover of South Vietnam. 
Last Wednesday the Prime Minister of Laos, Prince Souvanna Phouma, made a dramatic call to the United States of America for assistance stating that Laos would be taken over by North Vietnam unless America came to that country's aid. He said: 
Without United States air support, the entire country will become Communist - the entire country will be taken over by North Vietnam. 
This statement was made at the same time as the Communists in Laos were claiming to have killed, captured or wounded 6,000 Royal Laotian troops in the Plain of Jars. 
The Communists are using the very same tactics in Laos that they have employed so successfully in South Vietnam. They are utilising the puppet movement of the Pathet 
Lao in the same way that they used the Vietcong. The North Vietnamese refuse, of course, to admit that they have any troops in Laos, just as they denied, for so long, that North Vietnamese troops were involved in South Vietnam. I think,  Sir, that  only Wilfred Burchett still believes that fiction. 
How can this continual march southward of aggressive Communism be halted? Thanks to the efforts of the demonstrators in the United States, thanks to the McGoverns, the Mansfields and the Fulbrights, and thanks to the efforts of the Australian Labor Party and the left wing peace movements in Australia, public opinion both in the United States and Australia has been so conditioned that some people would prefer to wash their hands of the whole affair, conveniently forgetting the lessons of 1939. One factor which cannot be discounted is the subversion of the public mind. This has been carefully and cleverly carried out by certain forces in this country. I believe that this has reached proportions of national and international concern. 
Although at this very moment North Vietnamese troops are invading Laos and killing and driving out its peaceful inhabitants, not a word of protest has come from the people who demonstrate so vehemently against the war in Vietnam. Not one word of protest has come from the Labor Party despite the fact that 68 Federal Labor parliamentarians have agreed to act as sponsors, along with Communists and others, at the proposed moratorium to be held against the assistance we are giving South Vietnam to resist Communist aggression. Not a word has come from the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  who was reported to be the main sponsor of a motion to this effect at the recent Federal Executive meeting of his Party. Presumably,  Sir, he  has decided to throw his hand in with the left at long last. 
On the 1-day sitting of this Parliament following the recent election this House was kept in session until 1 a.m. whilst the honourable members for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns),  Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  and the right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell)  attacked the United States over the unfortunate killing of villagers in Song My village in South Vietnam; a village which, nonetheless, harboured Communist forces. Shortly, no doubt, we will be hearing from the right honourable member for Melbourne that the war in Laos is a dirty, cruel, immoral, unwinnable civil war and that we should close our eyes to it, as he advocates in the case of Vietnam. Not a voice of concern for Laos has been raised by the anti-war fanatics, the banner wavers, the demonstrators, the deluded academics, the misguided churchmen or the left wing peace bodies always so eager to denounce the defence of South Vietnam. Yet the North Vietnamese invasions of Laos and of South Vietnam are as naked and as brutal acts of aggression as anything Hitler ever did in Europe. History has proved only too well that aggression, if allowed to succeed, leads only to greater conflict. 
As the Laotian Prime Minister pointed out, the North Vietnamese troops are suppressing and killing Laotian people and already have uprooted more than 700,000 Laotians from their homes and villages. Here, surely, is the kind of oppression which should have the peace crusaders marching in the streets - that is, if they are sincere. Here surely is an opportunity for the 68 honourable members of the Labor Party to march against Communist aggression. Unfortunately their voices are silent. The only voice to be heard is that of Soviet Russia which sees fit to denounce the United States for what it calls the 'barbarous bombing of Laotian territory'. No doubt in the near future we will be hearing similar denunciations from the honourable members for Lalor, Oxley and Wills  (Mr Bryant)  - not, of course, forgetting the 'unwinnable' right honourable member for Melbourne. 
I hold in my hand,  Sir, a  cartoon by Tanner which was published last Saturday in the Melbourne 'Age'. The cartoon depicts a huge domino flattening the Laotian people and a young cub reporter asking: 'As a Laotian, do you believe in the domino theory?' Obviously it is too late for the Laotian to reply but what an apt summing up of the whole situation is this illustration. Let us only hope that Australia never will be depicted as having been flattened by the same domino. 
At the very time that the Labor Party is trying so hard to prove the Government wrong over Vietnam the Government is being proved so right by the North Vietnamese attacks on Laos. Today the front page of the Sydney 'Daily Telegraph' carries the heading: 'Cambodians sack Red embassies'. The article states: 
Thousands of young Cambodians today sacked the North Vietnamese and Vietcong Embassies here in a massive outburst of popular indignation against continued Communist infiltration into the country. 
I do not like attaching names such as domino to facts or theories but there is no doubt that if Vietnam goes, or even if it does not, it will be only a matter of time before the Communists take over in Laos, Cambodia and Thailand. Only recently the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  challenged the Government to give good reasons for not immediately withdrawing all Australian forces from Vietnam. The credibility of the war', he said, has been reduced to ashes'. I say to the honourable gentleman that there are no ashes, thanks to the intervention of the United States and Australia, and not only is the fire still burning in Vietnam, Laos, Cambodia and Thailand, but even further afield the kindling is being set up. 
The honourable gentleman would be well advised to take another look at the situation. He accused the Australian Government of adopting a callous and indifferent attitude to civilians in Vietnam. I was in Vietnam last July and I saw the effect of the brutal Communists attacks. I saw what the Communists are doing to innocent men, women and children in that country, and as a Christian I was proud of what the Australians are doing to protect the South Vietnamese people from Communist attacks. I saw a Vietnamese boy aged 14 who had his legs blasted away by a Vietcong rocket which had been fired indiscriminately into his village.  His  life was saved by an Australian medical team, but only after the wreckage of both his legs had been amputated. Do honourable members opposite seriously suggest that it would be morally right just to sit by and allow this sort of thing to go on? 
Despite what the Labor Party says, the Communists have been stopped in Vietnam. We may never be able to eradicate them completely any more than you can eradicate thieves, brigands or murderers in the Australian society. But they have been checked. When I was in Vietnam last July a high ranking Australian official with whom I stayed told me that President Theiu has said to him that by March this year 90% of the towns and villages in South Vietnam would be under Government control. 1 asked whether this was an optimistic statement and he replied: 'Maybe, but I have no doubt that 87% will be under Government control'. It was with a great deal of satisfaction that I read in the 'Australian' last Wednesday that, according to a new evaluation, 87.9% of the South Vietnamese population now lived in relative security under the Saigon Government's control. This point was well emphasised recently when South Vietnamese cyclists conducted a bicycle race throughout the length of South Vietnam and not one of them was harmed. Had the policies advocated by the Labor Party been in operation this position would never have been achieved. 
The Labor Party would now scuttle all this by wrongly claiming that the Americans are getting out of Vietnam and that we should do likewise. How the Communists and their friends in Australia and the United States would applaud if this were truly the case. They would then be free to clean up Laos and move on to Thailand, Cambodia, Malaysia and places beyond. While in Nui Dat last year I was told by the Commander of the Australian Task Force there of the success being achieved in training South Vietnamese units, and the opinion was expressed to me that the time was rapidly approaching when the South Vietnamese forces would be able to take over more and more of the protection of their own country. 
We are witnessing today under the Nixon doctrine of Vietnamisation the implementation of this very fact. Despite the Fulbrights, the McGoverns and the Mansfields, the United States does not intend to desert the South Vietnamese people in their struggle, and as long as the Labor Party remains on the Opposition benches in this country neither will Australia. Only last week I listened to  Sir Robert  Thompson, the British insurgency expert, who was in Canberra. As honourable members well know.  Sir Robert  Thompson is credited with much of the strategy that prevented the attempted Communist takeover of Malaya some 10 years ago. Although he is a Britisher he has now been called in by  President  Nixon as an adviser on the conduct of the Vietnam war. I would like to read his views as published in the 'Australian' on February 25th last. Under the heading 'Vietnam Pull-out Would Threaten Australia' the following article is set out: 
The immediate withdrawal of all allied troops from south Vietnam would post a major threat of Communist aggression to Australia,  Sir Robert  Thompson, the British insurgency expert, said yesterday 
He said Australia would be under a continual threat over the next 5 to 10 years. 
South Vietnam has been the holding ground against Communist aggression for the last IS to 20 years',  Sir Robert  told a Press conference in Canberra. 
Australia is in a completely isolated position and with a complete immediate withdrawal would find itself surrounded by hostile governments', he said. 
A total withdrawal at this stage would be psychologically bad for South Vietnam,' he said. "The present method of partial withdrawals is the best possible way in which the situation in South Vietnam can be handled. 
I would put far more faith in the views of  Sir Robert  Thompson, who has a reputation for success in dealing with Communists, than in the views of the Labor Party, which has proved itself completely incapable of dealing with Communist influence within its own Party.  Sir Robert  said here in Canberra that he was surprised at the progress that had been made in Vietnam in the past 12 to 15 months and that so much had been accomplished in such a short time. If the present progress is allowed to continue the position will be even stronger. If we and the United States were to walk out and surrender South Vietnam to the North, which is virtually what the Labor Party advocates, what hope would any Asian country have against Communist aggression? If the Communists know that they will always be supported by certain people in the United States and Australia and the governments of nonCommunist countries in Asia know they will not be supported, we will reach a dangerous situation. This situation is remarkably parallel to that existing in Europe in the 1930s when we witnessed the aggression of Hitler. 
The picture in Vietnam today is good. As I said earlier, some 87% of the population is now under Government control. There is no problem in recruiting men into the South Vietnamese forces. The Vietcong ranks are seriously depleted and the gaps have to be filled by North Vietnamese troops. Some units which were formerly Vietcong units are now made up of anything from 30% to 80% of North Vietnamese. Even last July when I was in Vietnam the Communists had been reduced to harrassing actions. They are apparently in no position to mount a major offensive. The allies only wish they would, because they could be dealt a severe blow. The North Vietnamese know that, from their position, the war is militarily unwinnable. They are relying on their friends and sympathisers in the United States and Australia to so soften public opinion that what they cannot achieve on the battlefield they will achieve by other means. 
But there are other problems ahead for the South Vietnamese. With an increase in their armed forces from 600,000 to over 1 million in a country with a population of 16 million it is only natural that severe strains have been placed on the economy. The policy of this Government and the Government of the United States has been proven right in South Vietnam. But we are not in Vietnam just to help the South Vietnamese repulse the invasion from the North; we are there to demonstrate a political will and to show the people of Asia that they will be given assistance if they stand up to Communist aggression. This is a vital psychological factor on which the whole freedom of South East Asia and, in the long run, the whole freedom of this island continent of ours may depend. Nixon has conducted a very difficult exercise with his policy of Vietnamisation, but his policy is proving successful. The people are going back to their villages from the big towns, things are gettting back to normal and more and more Vietcong are surrendering daily. The Vietnamese people are becoming more confident of their responsibilities. 
The invasion of Laos is, as much as anything else, an attempt to force the  President  of the United States by pressure from within to speed up the American withdrawal before the South Vietnamese are fully prepared to take the major share of the burden of their own defence. During the past decade we have seen the Communists defeated in Malaya; we have seen them stopped by only a hair's breadth in Indonesia; we have seen them halted in Vietnam. The pressure is now building up in Laos, 
Cambodia and Thailand. In Monday morning's edition of the 'Sydney Morning Herald' there was an excellent leading article. I would like to read from it briefly because I think it sets out the position very clearly. It said: 
That Thailand is next on the list for a 'war of national liberation' there is no question at all. The Communists have already done a great deal to prepare the ground for it. According to the Bangkok Government, and there is no reason to doubt it, no fewer than 36 of Thailand's 71 provinces are now 'infiltrated by Communist guerillas'. Meanwhile the strategic road which the Chinese military are constructing in Northern Laos creeps steadily nearer to the Thai  border. 
The article goes on: 
Whether the blow against Thailand fails sooner or later, only a fool or a dupe would suppose that the boundaries of Indo-China set the bounds of Communist ambitions. 
I commend that to honourable members opposite because I think it is a very true statement. 
The 'domino theory', so often scoffed at by honourable members opposite, is well under way. There is much truth in the often heard remark that it is better to stop Communist aggression before it reaches our shores. Australians, whenever they go to vote, must be ever conscious of the weakkneed, isolationist defence policy of the Labor Party. No country was ever made a present of freedom, and Australia is no exception. [Quorum formed.] 
Has the AttorneyGeneral's attention been drawn to a reported statement of the Leader of the Opposition that whilst in New Guinea he was followed by Security agents and had reason to believe that his telephone was tapped? Will the Minister inform the House whether there is any basis for this allegation? Is it a fact that the Leader of the Opposition is an avid reader of James Bond? 
I direct to the PostmasterGeneral a question which is supplementary to one asked earlier by the honourable member for Franklin. I feel that his question was aimed at preventing the publication known as the 'Rhodesian Commentary' being carried through the mail. 1 ask the Minister whether similar facilities of the Postmaster-General's Department are made available to the proCommunist Vietnam Moratorium Committee of -which I understand the honourable member for Lalor is the  chairman. 
by leave- I present the official report of the Australian parliamentary mission to Hong Kong, Japan, The Republic of Korea and the Republic of China. 
I am rather sorry that the whole debate has got away from the original subject of the motion which relates to sitting hours of the Parliament. It has unfortunately become a reiteration of the debate we had on Tuesday about the rights and wrongs of the Vietnam Moratorium. I feel that the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  is largely responsible for taking the debate away from the subject. I am amazed to think that the Opposition should seriously suggest that this House should cease to function on a certain day so that its members can take part in what the honourable member for Lalor himself has called an act of civil disobedience. Honourable members opposite may be able to close down the schools on that day, but I certainly do not think that they should be able to close down the national Parliament. However I do not want to go into that matter. 
I rose today because I wanted to speak about the hours that are worked in this House. So often we hear from some members of the Press - I say 'some' because they are few - who are irresponsible enough to talk about members of Parliament as though we never do any work or never do much at all. This talk overflows into different channels and some people believe it. 1 would like to let the public know the hours that we worked last week, and particularly the hours I worked. Last Tuesday morning I rose at home in Melbourne at 5.30; f left home at 6.20 to catch the 7.30 plane to Canberra. At 9 a.m. I attended a meeting of the Public Accounts Committee. The House sat at 2.30 p.m. We had an early night that night and rose at 11 o'clock. I was in bed by midnight. That was a total of 19 hours for the day. On Wednesday I was up at 7.30. I was at the House at 9 a.m. The House sat at 2.30 p.m. We rose, owing to the barney that we had due to the irresponsible actions of the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant),  some time after 3 a.m. I think 1 was in bed by about 4 a.m. That was a total of 20 hours for that day. 
On the Thursday morning I rose at 7.30. I was at the House by 9. The House sat at 10.30. I was in bed some time after midnight that night. That was a total of 171 hours. The following morning I was up at 6.15 to catch the plane to Melbourne at 7.30. I spent the day in my office and attended a naturalisation ceremony that night. That was a total of about 15 hours. Then followed the normal weekend functions that a member of Parliament has to attend. We average as a minimum j 5 hours a day. I would like this to be recorded for the information of the Press and for the information of the people. After having seen the films provided by the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp),  on Monday night 1 feel I can only describe the hours we work by the term sadomasochistic. They make it impossible for us to give of our best. 
Well, of course, the honourable member for Griffith is a very impressionable young man. 1 think that the new hours that have been outlined by the Leader of the House  (Mr Snedden)  are very good as far as they go, and 1 support them. But I do not think they will achieve a great deal. I do not think they will assist us to get more work done. They will not make the tempers of certain members any easier. Last night 8 or 9 members spoke in the debate on the motion for the adjournment. If the motion is to be put at 11 p.m., and 9 members want to speak for 10 minutes each the debate will go an hour and a half and we will still be here until 12.30 in the morning. That will mean another 17-hour day and more frayed tempers. 
Whilst I go along with the motion and support it as far as it goes. I do not feel that it goes far enough. I believe that the whole question of the sitting times of the Parliament should be studied. I think the slate should bc wiped clean. We should not be bound by precedent, just because a procedure was adopted in the House of Commons at a time when parliamentarians were not paid, had other jobs and wanted to meet in Parliament in the afternoon and during the night. Those days are gone. These days we are paid and it should be the full time duty of a parliamentarian to be here. It seems almost ludicrous to me that we begin our meetings at 2.30 p.m., when half the day is gone. The afternoon is taken up by question time, Ministerial Statements and so called urgency matters with the result that often it is 8 p.m. before we get down to the business of the Parliament. I support the motion as it stands, but believe much more should be done to study the sitting times of Parliament. We might then not only get through more work but we might also get through it without the conduct that occurred last Wednesday night. It was certainly a very disgraceful show. I do not think members of the Opposition quite realised what they were doing at the time. It was late at night and tempers were frayed. If the hours of meeting of the Parliament were better arranged, in a more sensible and less ludicrous style, such outbreaks might not occur. 
The honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  gave some grudging support to this Bill. He said that if Labor had been in Government it would have brought in a similar Bill. I do not know whether that is a commendation of the Bill. I for one have never heard any suggestion from any member of the Labor Party advocating such a measure in the past. The honourable member for Oxley claimed that this was a Socialist measure and that the Liberal Government had introduced this Socialist measure. But it is not a nationalisation measure and if Labor were in power I have no doubt that it would nationalise the film industry because it has this mad, insane idea that everything must be nationalised and brought under government control. What the Government is doing in this Bill is bringing in something which is essentially Liberal policy - that is, co-operation between private enterprise and government when it is necessary to have that co-operation for an enterprise to be successful. 
I am reminded of a story told of the American film producer Samuel Goldwyn who was at one time endeavouring to persuade George Bernard Shaw to hand over the film rights to some of Shaw's plays. Shaw was not interested in Goldwyn's proposal. 'Think', said Goldwyn, 'of the millions of people who would have an opportunity to become acquainted with your art'. 'Ah', said Shaw, 'you think only of art while I think only of money'. The Australian Film Development Corporation Bill which we are discussing today not only is aimed at assisting and stimulating the art of film production in Australia but, like Shaw, it also thinks of money. It aims to reduce the drain of funds which are pouring out of Australia each year to pay for films produced overseas. In addition it has an eye to the Australian film industry as a potential earner of overseas funds. In relation to population Australia rates second only to the United States of America as a supporter of motion pictures. Last year Australia paid $16.6m for overseas films and most of this money flowed into the pockets of American and British producers. The money earned overseas by Australian productions was almost negligible. 
Why should this be so? Australia has an ideal climate for the production of films, a climate far superior to that of England and equal to, if not better than, that of California. Despite the lack of opportunity Australia has produced some of the finest artists in the world - people like Melba, Sutherland, Helpmann, Dame Judith Anderson, Zoe Caldwell, Peter Finch, Cecil Kellaway, Rod Taylor, and even the swashbuckling Errol Flynn. There are many more. Yet all of these famous artists were forced by lack of opportunity in Australia to seek fame and fortune in other countries, lt is strange that Australians have proven themselves equal to any in the world in almost very field except that of film production. Film making in Australia dates back to as early as 1900 but very few of the many films made have been of a sufficiently high standard to command a world audience. From the start there has been an enthusiastic audience for films in Australia and until the late 1930s it was possible to make a profit on a small budget film from the home market alone. However small budgets meant inadequate equipment and underpaid technicians and actors and so the industry was caught in a deadlock. Quality could not be improved until a wider market was reached but overseas distributors would not become interested until production was of a higher standard. 
The honourable member for Oxley mentioned that Australia was one of the pioneers in the history of film making and it is a fact that a film called The Kelly Gang' was made in 1905 by an Australian unit under the aegis of J. and N. Tait, the famous Melbourne theatrical brothers, lt was the first full length feature film produced in the world. This film was made at Mitcham, Victoria, which is only a mile or so from where I live and just outside my electorate of Deakin. Over the years there have been many attempts by the pioneers of the Australian film industry to place Australia on the map and as a tribute to these people I would like to remind honourable members of just a few of them. Older honourable members may very well remember them. Up to World War I there was a spate of distinctly Australian films, with such shows as The Bushwhackers' - I do not know whether that was about the Labor Party - which had in it Australia's first female star, a girl by the name of Lottie Lyall. There was also a film based on the exploits of the Australian bushranger 'Captain Midnight'. One of the first comedies that was produced in 1913 and was called Charlie At the Show'. In it a local actor impersonated, even in those days, Charlie Chaplin. During the First World War a number of Australian war films were produced, such as 'For Australia' produced by Melbourne's J. C. Williamsons Films - J. C. Williamsons are perhaps better known to theatrical people as "The Firm' - 'The Hero of the Dardanelles' and 'How We Beat the Emden' produced by Australian Films. There were others. 
The year 1920 was notable for the creation on the screen of Dad and Dave in the silent version of 'On Our Selection', starring Bert Bailey in a role that previously he had made famous on the stage. Other distinctly Australian films such as those of C. J. Dennis's 'The Sentimental Bloke' and Ginger Mick' were produced about that time. But in the mid-20s a bombshell hit the world film industry. Al Jolson made The Jazz Singer', and talkies were here to stay. Owing to the lack of equipment Australia was slow off the mark with the production of sound films. Some dialogue was added to a few Australian films produced in the years from 1928 to 1931 but the effort was very limited in scope. By 1930 the Scullin Government was so concerned at the state of the Australian film industry that it offered a prize for the best Australian production, but entries were of such a low standard that only a third prize was awarded. This was for a film called 'Fellers' which had dialogue in the final reel only. 
In the 1930s two Australian producerdirectors stood out head and shoulders above all others. I refer to Ken G. Hall of Cinesound and Charles Chauvel. Ken Hall scored a great success in 1932 with the sound version of 'On Our Selection' again starring Bert Bailey as Dad. This film was made at the Princess Theatre at Melborne by Efftee Films, so named from the initials of Frank Thring Snr, the father of the present Frank Thring who daily on television warns us to buy our television and radio licences. 
Yes. I had an aunt who, at that time, managed a retail crockery store in Bourke Street around the corner from the Princess Theatre. As the film was made on a shoestring budget she was requested to lend crockery to be used by Dad and Mum in the film version of 'On Our Selection'. I have very dim memories of being taken around as a very small boy to see the filming, which was done on the stage of the theatre. I remember being most amused to see an extra playing a hose on the window of the homestead on the stage. I was told that the breaking of the drought was being filmed. I instance this purely to show how early Australian film producers struggled against almost overwhelming odds because of lack of finance. Today, 38 years later, 'On Our Selection* is still earning money for its producers. In fact, it has earned more money as a percentage of original cost than has 'Gone With the Wind'. 
In 1933 Hall made 'The Squatter's Daughter' and in 1934 starred the famous Roy Rene, better known as Mo, in 'Strike Me Lucky'. In 1938 and 1939 Hall starred the late George Wallace Snr in 'Let George Do It' and 'Gone to the Dogs'. Charles Chauvel's first sound film was 'In the Wake of the Bounty' made in 1933, the first film in which Errol Flynn appeared. During the Second World War the Australian film industry gained a greater degree of stability than ever before, mainly because it was harnessed to governmental requirements but also because, due to Australia's strategic position, world interest in the Commonwealth was stimulated considerably. In 1941, with the co-operation of the Department of the Army, Chauvel made 'Forty Thousand Horsemen', a story of the Australian campaign in Palestine in World War I. It was filmed in the sand dunes at Cronulla, in the electorate of my friend the honourable member for Cook  (Mr Dobie)  who will follow me on the Government side in this debate. This film starred Chips Rafferty in his first starring role. In 1944 Chauvel directed 'Rats of Tobruk' dealing with the Australian Army's heroic defence of Tobruk. In 1946, Hall directed Smithy', a film based on the life of the famous Australian aviator,  Sir Charles  Kingsford-Smith. 
The war over, Ealing Studios of London came to Australia to make 'The Overlanders', a story based on the droving of mobs of cattle from the Northern Territory at the time of the threatened Japanese invasion. That film starred Chips Rafferty and a very lovely young Australian girl named Daphne Campbell from Orange in New South Wales. 
This young lady today is better known to all of us as the wife of the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder).  Today, she is Daphne Calder, and she is just as charming as ever she was. Ealing Studios and J. Arthur Rank subsequently made a series of films in Australia. I refer to films such as Bush Christmas', 'Eureka Stockade'. 'Bitter Springs' and 'Kangaroo' starring Peter Lawford and Maureen O'Hara. But these films were not the revenue earners that it had been hoped they would be, and eventually Ealing Studios packed up and went back to England. 
Other excellent films worthy of mention have been produced in Australia. These include the films of Nevil Shute's novels A Town Like Alice' and 'On the Beach', Chauvel's 'Jedda', and Ray Lawler's The Summer of the 17th Doll'. The honourable member for Oxley also mentioned 'They're a Weird Mob', which was another excellent Australian film which helped to portray the Australian way of life to the world at large. Very few of the films that I have mentioned, however, have been of more than local interest. Apart from technical imperfections which do not necessarily prevent a film from achieving world popularity, what has been lacking chiefly is trained creative talent; that is, writers and directors of high artistic standards with a thorough training in their craft. 
With a few exceptions, films made in Australia by overseas interests have failed to be more than superficially Australian in character and have been more concerned with exploiting what is novel or bizarre in the local scene. However, these films have given Australian technicians and actors valuable experience and they have stimulated interest in the Australian way of life to some extent. I believe that it should be of concern to all Australians that approximately 75% of films shown in this country come from the United States of America, approximately 18% come from Great Britain and the remainder come from other countries, chiefly France and Italy. As we saw at the film showing by the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  last Monday week, many of these overseas films must be produced by the half-educated for the half-witted. lt also should be a mattetr of concern that the bulk of the distribution of entertainment films in Australia is in the hands of American companies which have established their own offices in our capital cities to handle the physical distribution of their own films. 1 think that the honourable member for Oxley pointed out the lack of return that local producers receive due to distribution handling by overseas companies. Since John Garton became leader of this country we have had as Prime Minister a man who is distinctly Australian in character. We have seen this in a number of actions not the least of which are the establishment of the Industry Development Corporation aimed at maintaining Australian equity in Australia's resources and, of course, the introduction of the Australian Film Development Corporation Bill, which we arc discussing at the moment. This Bill should be of untold benefit to the Australian film industry and it is fitting that it should be introduced by this Government. 
The Australian Film Development Corporation will administer a fund with an initial capital of Sim to make loans to film and television producers. It will bc able to receive a share of the proceeds without any liability for debts incurred. These proceeds will be ploughed back to assist with future productions. The Corporation will bc able to participate in the formation of a company to compete with the American nearmonopoly of distribution in Australia. I have shown that despite the efforts of some very fine pioneers of the Australian film industry Australian films by and large have not been commercially successful. 
But now the Government has implemented the 3 main recommendations of the film committee of the Australian Council for the Arts. A sum of $100,000 has already been put aside for an inquiry into the best way of setting up a training school, and $200,000 has already been allocated for experimental film making- $100,000 for productions and $100,000 to facilitate their showing on television. The setting up of this Corporation will encourage Australian produced films of high quality which also have a good chance of being a commercial success. The Corporation's moneys are not just hand-outs to any hopeful or hopeless production, but rather they are an investment which will be recouped in the whole future of the Australian film industry. I think we can look with confidence to the National Film Finance Corporation which was set up in Britain in 1950. In the 17 years between 1950 and 1967 the British Corporation invested $70m in assisting the production of 694 feature films and 164 short films. In that time it received back $43.5m. The 694 films however are still in distribution and will undoubtedly go on generating income even after the full $70m is regained. 
The setting up of this Corporation is just one more step by this Government in the building of a greater, more productive Australia. A flourishing film industry in Australia will employ talented Australian actors, writers, artists and technicians. No longer will they have to go overseas to follow their careers successfully. As a direct result of the work of this Corporation Australian films will be distributed throughout the world, thus projecting the ideas and the way of life of our people and our nation. As the Prime Minister said in his second reading speech, we should devote ourselves not only to the building of great new factories and smelters, not only to wresting produce and minerals from the earth, not only to material standards, but also to involvement in and development of the arts. This is an excellent Bill. It is a great step forward for the film industry, and I commend it to the House. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education and Science. Is the Minister aware that the Victorian State Executive of the Australian Labor Party last night issued a document stating that a Victorian Labor government, if elected on 30th May, would abolish State aid to independent schools in Victoria? As Commonwealth assistance to the independent schools is channelled through State instrumentalities, will the Minister assure the House that any action by a State Labor government to prevent Commonwealth assistance from reaching these schools will not be tolerated? 
There being no objection, leave is granted. 
I direct a question to the  Deputy  Prime Minister. Is the  Deputy  Prime Minister aware that stores in Melbourne and Sydney have been forced to put up shutters, employ security guards and have extra plate glass oh hand in case of violence at this insane Moratorium demonstration today? At my daughter's school, all children will be sent home at 11 a.m. today to avoid the risk of their travelling through the city- 
Has the attention of the Minister for Immigration been drawn to a report of the plight of an English migrant family in Pascoe Vale, Victoria, which it is claimed has been refused accommodation in a hostel by the Commonwealth Department of Immigration? Is there any truth in the report and, if so, will the Minister see what can be done by the Department to assist this family? 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. I refer to the recent measures taken by the Government to curb the overheating of the economy. I ask the Treasurer: Are any signs yet discernible that these measures are achieving some success? 
I am one member of this House who cannot be accused of speaking unnecessarily in an adjournment debate in this House, butI am very much concerned at the attack made by the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  yesterday on the freedom of the Press. I know that honourable members are anxious to catch planes back to their electorates and I will be brief. In this House yesterday the honourable member for Wills made a bitter attack on the Melbourne Age' for reporting the split between  Mr Holding,  the Leader of the Labor Party in Victoria, and the left wing State Executive of the Labor Party in that State. He also attacked the Melbourne 'Herald' for reporting the results of a gallup poll which showed an 8% swing in support of the Gorton Government. He called for a body to be set up to control the Press. He said that the purpose of the body was as follows: 
To consider complaints about the conduct of the Press- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! There is no substance in the point of order. 
I was quoting from Hansard from the speech of the honourable member for Wills. He said that the purpose of the body was: 
To consider complaints about the conduct of the Press or the conduct of persons and organisations towards the Press 
There have been times when I have not been happy with things I have read in the Press, but we must resist most strongly any attempts to interfere with the freedom of the Press, as Voltaire said. We all know the following quotation: 
I may not agree with what you say but I will defend to the death your right to say it. 1 consider that the honourable member for Wills misled the House on the political situation in Victoria. He made what are now revealed to be false statements about newspapers and tried to conceal the fact that there is a disastrous split in the Labor Party in Victoria. 
The simple fact is that this split is there and it exists between the Victorian State Executive of the Australian Labor Party on the one side and the Leader of the State Opposition,  Mr Holding,  and the Leader of the Federal Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  on the other. The honourable member for Wills told this House that the reports of the split were the result of a conspiracy by newspapers because a gallup poll had shown a big swing to Labor in that State. What the honourable member told this House was, to say the least, untrue. Let me deal with the gallup poll figures first. 
The honourable member for Wills alleged falsely that the Melbourne 'Herald' had suppressed gallup poll figures because they were unfavourable to the Bolte Government. This is not true. The gallup poll to which be referred was a poll taken on 4th April to define the then voting intentions of the people of the whole of Australia in a possible Federal election at that time. The questions asked had nothing to do with State politics. The figures showing individual State's intentions in this poll were as usual not issued with the gallup poll for publication. 
The reason for this is that the number involved in the individual State's samples is so small that the margin for error is too great to have the figures recorded officially. Therefore, the poll takes the picture as a whole and issues its findings on those figures. The figures for individual States are available and are given privately to those who seek them, such as the political parties, libraries and universities. But i emphasise that the figures were never issued with the gallup poll for publication in newspapers and therefore there was no suppression whatsoever by the 'Herald' or any other newspaper. 
The actual number of interviews made for the survey in Victoria was 459 out of a total of 1,762 for the whole of Australia. The honourable member for Wills told this House yesterday that the number of persons interviewed in Victoria was 1,693, of whom 827 said that they would vote for Labor. The figures quoted by the honourable member for Wills were entirely wrong. Where he got those figures, I do not know. The actual number of samples taken in Victoria was a mere 459, not 1,693 as the honourable member for Wills claimed. 
The other important point about this gallup poll was that it was taken to test Federal voting intentions and had nothing to do with State politics. The gallup poll organisation is at present conducting a survey of about 2,000 voters in Victoria on their voting intentions in the coming State poll. That sample should give an accurate forecast of the result of the State election. The result of this poll, I believe, will be published in the Melbourne 'Herald' next Thursday or Friday and, naturally, it will be published whether it shows a swing to the Labor Party or a swing to the Liberal Party. That is a true indication of the integrity and responsibility of the newspaper group of which we are speaking. 
Now, as to the story that the split in the Victorian ALP is an invention of newspapers, let us look at the facts. I have it on good authority that at 4 o'clock on the afternoon on which  Mr Holding  was to deliver the policy speech of the Australian Labor Party  Mr Holding's  own office did not know that he had been torpedoed by the Victorian State Executive of the Australian Labor Party. A substantial document was issued by the Victorian State Executive before it was given to  Mr Holding.  This document. I am told, had two sections. One was printed on white paper and one was printed on green paper. The white paper section was the State Labor Party policy as seen by the State Executive, lt pledged that Labor would phase out State aid to independent schools. The green paper section, which was the speech that  Mr Holding  had to deliver that night contained no such reference. That was because, for 2 days in the week before,  Mr Holding  and the Leader of the Federal Opposition,  Mr Whitlam,  had argued with the State Executive to omit this statement from the platform. 
We can pity  Mr Holding  and the Federal Leader of the Labor Party in their battle with the left wing Victorian State Executive because they believed that they had won their argument. Honourable members can imagine the panic in  Mr Holding's  office when, on the afternoon of the policy speech, newspaper men drew their attention to what the ALP Executive had done. As a result, I am told that there were frantic attempts between 4 o'clock and 8 o'clock that night to alter  Mr Holding's  speech in such a way that the difference would not be apparent. 
It is significant that the speech that  Mr Holding  delivered that night as his Party's platform for the coming State poll did not contain the Executive's damaging pledge to phase out State aid. Far from trying to invent a split, the Melbourne Press obviously tried unsuccessfully to see  Mr Holding  to resolve the obvious differences. I am told that he was not available. The allegation that the story of the split which, of course, was real news, had been invented by newspapers, began with a publication in Melbourne called the 'Sunday Observer*. This paper, as is well known, is owned and published by the IPEC company headed by  Mr Gordon  Barton. It has as one of its feature journalists,  Mr Wilfred  Burchett, and it is well known also that  Mr Barton  has no love for Liberals and the Liberal Party. It will be remembered that the Government had refused to give  Mr Barton's  company a licence to operate a third airline.  Mr Barton  has for some time devoted much effort to defeating the Liberal Party not only in the Federal sphere but also in the State sphere. 

 Mr Barton's 'Sunday Observer* organisation is issuing at the present time a 4-page propaganda sheet, calling itself a newspaper, which is loaded with Labor propaganda. The issue this morning contains not only the incorrect allegations made by the honourable member for Wills yesterday but also an equally incorrect article signed by him. This sheet makes no attempt to present both sides. By his association with it, the honourable member for Wilis makes a joke of all his allegations yesterday about the need for responsible and fair reporting in newspapers.  His  attack on the Press is both ludicrous and unwarranted. But his call for controls on the Press if adopted would create a dangerous precedent. There must be no interference with the freedom of the Press in this country by the socialists or by anyone else. 
Can the PostmasterGeneral tell the House why an old tape of a broadcast by the Premier of Victoria was substituted by the Australian Broadcasting Commission for one which was made specifically for the final programme before the Victorian State elections? Can he explain why the error was not immediately apparent to the monitor when  Sir Henry  Bolte referred to his 'policy speech last night' when in fact the policy speech had been made several weeks previously? 
The question is that the words proposed to be left out stand part of the question. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
Is the Minister for Education and Science aware that the University of Melbourne is closing down its external studies programme and that the Monash University Professorial Board is reported to be reluctant to establish external studies despite a statement by the Victorian Minister for Education that the Victorian Government will make a grant of $100,000 to the Monash University for the programme to be commenced? In view of the obvious need for such facilities for teachers and others who cannot physically attend a university, is there any action which his Department can take to see that external studies are made available for those desirous of furthering their education at tertiary level? 
Is the Prime Minister aware that the Executive of the Australian Council of Trade Unions has called a nationwide 3-hour stoppage involving 2.5 million Australian workers on next Tuesday as a protest against the Budget? Is this strike being called for purely political reasons or is there perhaps some way in which such a stoppage may help the Australian economy? 
Order!I ask the honourable member for Sturt to withdraw the remark to which objection has been taken. 
Has the Minister for Customs and Excise any complaint that the book 'Portnoy's Complaint' which has been banned by his Department as pornographic is permitted to be openly sold in South Australia by the Labor Government in that State? 
We will not quibble about that, but the point is that what has been said by the honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon),  the honourable member for Darling and the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  is true. People can say what they really want to say concisely in 20 minutes or, at the most, 25 minutes. I will not quibble about that either. But I do think that, in the interests of those honourable members who are put off all the time and prevented from speaking, the time for speeches should be cut down. In all the times I have spoken in this House I have never once taken my full time. I am pretty sure that that is a correct statement. But there are other honourable members in this House who continue right to the end of their allotted time, even if it means preventing other people from speaking. 1 was rather inclined to go along with a point that was raised by the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess).  He said that, if the time allotted to a member during the discussion of the Estimates was cut down to 10 minutes, on an item such as the defence estimates in which Defence, the Navy, the Army and Air Force are grouped everything a member had to say would be crowded into 10 minutes. I am informed by the Leader of the House  (Mr Snedden)  that these groupings could be separated. So that point may not be a valid one in the future. I do not want to say any more. I think it is important to remember that out of 65 honourable members on this side of the House 35 spoke on the Budget and 30 were prevented from speaking, although other honourable members could waffle on. I have no doubt that the position was the same on the Opposition side. 
Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  1 was not clear on the situation. I find myself very much in agreement with the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  on this matter. Although 1 am not in agreement with what the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  just proposed, I am in agreement with the remarks which he has made previously about the adjournment of the House at an earlier hour. I. find that I have been in agreement with him on several occasions recently, particularly with his views on Cambodia. It seems as though he has seen the light at last. 
I oppose the amendment which was moved by the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  and support the recommendations of the Standing Orders Committee. 1 do so because I understood that the object of this whole exercise was to endeavour to obtain the adjournment of the House at an earlier hour in the evening so that it is not sitting into the early hours of the morning. I feel that if the amendment moved by the honourable member for Maribyrnong is carried nothing will be achieved because we will still be sitting late into the night. I believe it is ridiculous to do so. lt is not conducive to good business. I do not think that the House should sit any later than 10.30 p.m. 1 think I am in agreement with the views of the honourable member for Wills on this point. I am not suggesting that the hours of sitting should be reduced. I would support extending the hours of sitting provided that the extension was at the beginning of the day and not at the end. I would support extending the sessions over longer periods, but I do not support sitting here into the small hours of the morning. If it is considered practical and reasonable for the rest of the working population of Australia to start work at 9 a.m. I cannot see why it is not practical for politicians. 
The Leader of the House  (Mr Snedden)  talked about tradition, lt is probably time we started to think about breaking with tradition. I know that there are conservatives on both sides of the House who would like to stick to the same hours. If we pass the amendment moved by the honourable member for Maribyrnong we will be back to square 1 and will still be sitting into the early hours. I know that it has been said that earlier meeting times will not work. Members have asked: When will Ministers do their work? When will committees meet? How will the staff prepare the paper work in advance? As the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition pointed out quite properly, the Monday morning of the second week would be a time when standing committees could meet. This would be acceptable to those members from distant States who would be in Canberra over the weekend. They would not want to be waiting about, as the honourable member (or Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  said, on a Monday morning waiting for the House to sit. Ministers do their work while the House is sitting. Usually there is only one Minister on duty in the House at a time. At the moment there are 2, but the remainder are usually in their offices doing the work they have to do. Party committees could continue to meet during meal hours, because I understand that the proposal to sit over the meal hours is not likely to be carried. 
The most crucial point in our consideration, and a reason for opposing the amendment, was contained in the letter circulated by the Leader of the House tonight. It was an extract from a letter by the  Speaker  to him. That extract contained the words: 
Having in mind that with night sittings officers have as little as 6 hours sleep . . . 
That goes for members too. The  Speaker  of this House has pointed out what happens under the present system, and it would continue under the proposal of the honourable member for Maribyrnong. If we pass the amendment moved by the honourable member for Maribyrnong we will be no better off than we have been in the past. Members of the staffs of the House and honourable members will continue to have as little as 6 hours sleep or less at night. I thought that the whole purpose of this exercise was to avoid that, but if the amendment is carried it will not improve the present position. I oppose the amendment for that reason. I prefer to go along with the recommendations of the Standing Orders Committee. I was surprised to hear the honourable member for Ryan  (Mr Drury)  say that perhaps the Standing Orders Committee did not consider hte position fully enough. I should have imagined that we, as members, would have expected the Committee to consider it fully and for these considerations to be reflected in the report it has presented. I oppose the amendment of the honourable member for Maribyrnong and will vote for the recommendations of the Standing Orders Committee. 
Question (by  Dr Solomon)  proposed: 
That the question be now put. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! There is no substance to the point of order. The honourable member will have a chance to deal with that at a later stage. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
That the words proposed to be omitted stand part of the question. 
I point out to the House that those who are in favour of the amendment moved by the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  will vote 'No' on this question and that those who are in favour of the report of the Standing Orders Committee, to which the amendment was moved, will vote 'Aye'. (The bells having been rung.) 
Amendments Nos 1 and 2 agreed to. 
That the words proposed to be inserted be so inserted. 
I oppose the amendment moved by the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  because I believe that if a fixed figure is decided on for a quorum then the House is entitled to rely on that figure as being the quorum. We should not vary it just to suit the whims of Opposition members, because they want to play hanky-panky or politics, or because they want to go home or frus trate the business of the Government. If we decide on the figure of 25 as a quorum we are entitled to say that that is the figure. Pairs are arranged so that people from distant electorates, such as those in Western Australia, can get away. This applies to the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard)  and some honourable members from Queensland. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Order! There is no substance in the point of order. 
The point I am making, and I make it very briefly, is that if we set on a figure as being a quorum, that should be the absolute quorum. As members of the Parliament we are entitled to rely on that number as being the quorum and to plan our business accordingly. The honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  said that the Government has a responsibility to keep up the numbers in the House. I say that the Opposition also has a responsibility to be here. If it is necessary for honourable members to be paired so that they may go off on a day such as today then we as a government and honourable members generally are entitled to rely on the number which has been set by this House as being a positive quorum and a quorum for all time. We cannot have it both ways. We cannot have a certain number for a quorum one day and a different number another day because that suits the Opposition. I oppose the amendment moved by the honourable member for Wills. 
I was rather surprised to hear the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  earlier in his speech refer to a 1 man dictatorship and government by regulations. I thought it was rather strange that this comment came from one who has just been to Victoria, laid down the law to the Victorian Executive of the Australian Labor Party and dictated its takeover by the Federal Executive of that Party. I am not here today to dwell on the internal squabbles of the Labor Party. They are well enough known to the electors as it is. We are here today to talk about the Parliament. At its last sitting several weeks ago, this Parliament took action to rationalise the days and hours of sitting and to introduce a more realistic quorum of the House. This action was well overdue and should do much to make the Parliament work more efficiently. However, it seems that on most nights Parliament will not rise until some time between 11 p.m. and midnight, or later if Government business so decrees, and I still believe that this is too late an hour. The matter of hours was fully canvassed at our last sitting and 1 do not wish to open up the debate again. 
I wish rather today to speak about the status of a parliamentarian. It is true that in the public mind it is not as high as is merited. I think this is partly our own fault. It is also partly due to the reporting of some journalists, and I say 'some journalists' because it is not all; but it is largely due to the attitude of the Government itself. It Ls partly our fault because we so often turn debates into a slanging match in an effort to gain some political advantage. It is partly due to certain journalists who seem to imagine that members of Parliament are a privilege class, which, as we all very well know, we are not. I remember the remark made in this House by the late 
Prime Minister, Harold Holt, that E. H. Cox, the then chief political correspondent of the Melbourne 'Herald', sat up in the Press gallery watching how often members sharpened their pencils. But it is on the Government itself that I believe the main responsibility must fall because in so many ways backbench members are treated in this Parliament almost like junior clerks in an office. 
The honourable member for Hindmarsh and the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  spoke of the need for a new Parliament House. One would imagine that an honourable member would be entitled, just as a junior executive in private enterprise would be, to an office to himself in this House, an office in which he can work without interruption. Most of us are 2 io an office, and some of the newer members are 3 to an office, lt is most difficult in these circumstances to interview constituents who may be in Canberra, to make a telephone call, or even to research a speech. While T was preparing this speech this morning my colleague with whom I share the office was speaking on a long distance telephone call to his electorate. Much as we get on well together, it was difficult to coneentrate. I know that the answer that is given is that there are just not enough rooms. If there are not, the Government should be taking one of two positive courses. It should be either erecting temporary accommodation to give each member an office to himself or it should get on with the job of erecting a new Parliament House which will provide the proper facilities for members to work efficiently. 
We have, after much debate, decided on a site for a new and permanent Parliament House, and we have sent a committee overseas to look at parliamentary buildings in other countries. Yet it is commonly acknowledged that the new building will not be functioning at the earliest for at least 10 years. A common comment heard from members in this Parliament is that it will not happen in their lifetime. And so the present situation drags on. I understand that temporary extensions to Parliament House are planned for some time in the future. Let us hope that they will be adequate at least to provide members with an office to themselves where they can work in private. When the last increase in parliamentary salaries was made in 1968 the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  said: 
If we are to attract people of the right calibre to enter Parliament they ought to be reasonably rewarded for what they do. 
A former Prime Minister,  Sir Robert  Menzies, said: 
The salaries of a member should be fixed at an amount which is not so low as to deter a man of good attainment and ability who has no private income from entering and remaining in Parliament. 
The present Prime Minister on the occasion of the salary rise in 1968 said that the Government had made a survey of salaries paid for positions of comparable responsibility in the Public Service and other sectors. He went on to say: 
We have particularly taken account of changes that have been made in payments to the Second Division of the Public Service. 
And so the salaries of parliamentarians were set in 1968 at $9,500 per annum, the equivalent of the Second Division of the Public Service. But what happened? Within a few months the salaries of the Public Service were revised by the Government. The Second Division rose to $11,250 per annum and the salary of a member of Parliament is now equal to the Third Division of the Public Service. Next Saturday the people of the electorate of Chisholm, which adjoins my electorate of Deakin, will elect to this Parliament a very brilliant 31 year old senior lecturer in political science at Melbourne University,  Mr A.  A. Staley. Despite his youth,  Mr Staley  as a lecturer receives in the vicinity of $1 1,000 per annum plus certain extras for lectures, television commentaries and so on.  His  salary will drop $1,500 or more because he wishes to serve his country in what should be its highest calling - as a legislator in the Federal Parliament. 
In its recent Budget the Government has introduced legislation to reduce income tax on lower and middle income earners. The reductions cover incomes up to $32,000 per annum. I need hardly say that if a person earning $32,000 is regarded as a middle income earner surely anyone on $9,500 must be regarded as a low income earner. No government should be proud to admit that it fixes the salary of the elected represenative of the people in this Parliament at a level which must, by the Government's own definition, be regarded as a low income. Several weeks ago this Government granted to 2 former GovernorsGeneral pensions of $7,500 per annum each. No-one would quibble about this. They were both dedicated men who rendered great and meritorious service to this country. The reason given in the Press for this action was that both men were, to some extent, in financial difficulties. The Australian', however, pointed out that Lord Slim at 79 years of age was receiving a pension as a retired Field Marshal of $11,240 per annum, $1,740 more than is paid to members in this House, many of whom have young families to rear. By the time the pension from this Government is added he will be earning very rauch more. As I have said, no-one could begrudge this pension to these 2 gentlemen but I do point out the comparison of what they receive to members' salaries. Members of Parliament should be, and most are, full time members of Parliament. They should never be placed in the position of trying to make ends meet by taking other positions because if they do their parliamentary duties will suffer. 
Yesterday members and senators on the Public Accounts Committee, of which I and the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  who has just spoken, are members, cross-examined public servants about the spending of public funds. It was rather strange, as one member pointed out afterwards, that most of the public servants we were questioning and so, perhaps, putting on the spot were earning salaries far in excess of our own. Would it not be a natural reaction for such a public servant, or anyone for that matter, to draw the conclusion that the Government considers the importance of a back bench member inferior to that of the public servant? Another rather strange treatment of back bench members concerns the use of Commonwealth cars. It is not commonly known by the public that Commonwealth cars are used mainly in taking repatriation cases to and from hospital and by the Public Service and the Services. A back bench member is allocated a car once a week when Parliament is sitting to drive him from his home to the airport on a 
Tuesday and to pick him up at the airport on a Friday to drive him back to his home or office. If it is necessary for a member to make a rush trip to his electorate because of some urgent electoral business during the parliamentary week, he is not entitled to a car to take him from his home town airport and then back to the airport as this would be using the car twice a week instead of once. On such occasions Members of Parliament are forced to hail a taxi which they pay for out of their own pockets while public servants, and others, many of them young girls, drive off in chauffeur driven Commonwealth cars. It should be obvious lo all concerned that honourable members do not come to Canberra unless it is in relation to their parliamentary duties. I think the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Nixon)  should remedy this matter as soon as possible. I am told by some Commonwealth drivers that a senior public servant who lives close to me is picked up each morning, driven to his office and taken home in the evening. This is very different treatment to that given to back bench Members of Parliament. I am not suggesting unlimited use of cars by honourable members, in fact, I would be one to oppose it. But I am rather bewildered by the different standards applied by this Government for members of Parliament and public servants. 
When I first became a member of this Parliament I felt that at last I had the opportunity to serve my fellow citizens in what I believed was the highest possible way. In those early days there were several members at whom I looked and wondered how they got here. But as time went on and I became more experienced I realised that each member represented a section of the community - a section which it was only right and just should be represented in this Parliament. I believe the complaints I have outlined today should be looked into by the Government because they are genuine complaints and they are pinpricking complaints that make the job of a member of Parliament harder. As we all know, members on all sides work hard and long hours. They deserve every facility to assist them in their work. As I said when ] began this speech, I am concerned with the status which has been given to members of this Parliament. To serve one's fellow countrymen in a democracy should be the highest calling of the land. Nothing should be done to denigrate it. 
On 12th March this year during the AddressinReply debate 1 read to the House an urgent appeal from the Prime Minister of Laos, Prince Souvanna Phouma, for assistance to help repel the 50,000 North Vietnamese troops who had invaded his country. I went on to warn that Cambodia, which was by then already heavily infiltrated by the North Vietnamese, would be the next to be openly invaded. Six days after I made that speech - on 18th March - the Cambodian National Assembly met and voted to depose Sihanouk, in whom the Assembly had lost confidence, and replaced him with Cheng Heng as Head of State. Lon Nol, who had been Prime Minister of Cambodia since August 1969, retained that post and basically the government remained unchanged as far as personnel were concerned. 
Five days after the Cambodian Government reshuffle, the Lon Nol Government began negotiations with the North Vietnamese to withdraw all of its troops from Cambodian territory. It was at this stage that the North Vietnamese openly invaded Cambodia, and today it is estimated that there are between 25,000 and 30,000 North Vietnamese troops engaged in the invasion of Cambodia. I said in this House on 12th March, and I repeat here tonight, that these invasions by the North Vietnamese of their neighbours are as naked and as brutal acts of aggression as anything Hitler ever did in Europe. Here, surely, was the opportunity for the socalled 'peace and moratorium' people to be up in arms in the cause of peace. Here, surely, was their chance, if they are sincere, to condemn aggression. But not a word of protest did we hear from the people who demonstrate so vehemently. Not a voice of concern was raised by the anti-war fanatics, the banner wavers, the deluded academics, or the misguided churchmen. Not a word of protest came from the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  or from the Party he leads. On the contrary, the Australian public opened the newspapers on 14th July and read: 
Sihanouk's thanks to Labor leader. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition,  Mr L.  H. Barnard, has received a congratulatory telegram from the deposed Cambodian Head of State, Prince Norodom Sihanouk, in Peking- of all places. The newspaper article continued: 
The telegram thanks  Mr Barnard  for his 'just action' and for the 'noble and moving sympathy'   Mr Barnard  said Prince Sihanouk seemed to be referring to a speech made by  Mr Barnard  in the House of Representatives on May 5 . . . In his speech  Mr Barnard  . . . criticised the Lon Nol regime and the Americans for widening the Indo-China war into Cambodia. 
The Deputy Leader of the Opposition did not have a word to say about the North Vietnamese Communists who had invaded Cambodia and opposed the duly elected Cambodian Government. In the Melbourne Age' of the same date we read this: 

 Mr Barnard said he agreed wholeheartedly with the former President's cable and urged the immediate withdrawal of all American troops from Cambodia. 
But in attacking the Cambodian Government of Lon Nol and in encouraging the deposed Sihanouk, the Labor Party had overlooked the honesty and the sincerity of one of its members. The honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  was on the spot in Cambodia at that time and, having seen at first hand the true situation, he could not in all honesty remain silent. I pay tribute to him for his sincerity and courage. The honourable member for Wills had already warned the left wing Victorian ALP Conference, when that branch was advocating support for the overthrow of the Lon Nol Government, that the Lon Nol Government was a properly and legally constituted government. Following that he saw the situation for himself. On 16th July he sent a cable from Phnom Penh to the Victorian ALP secretary,  Mr Hartley,  and to other Federal Labor members. The cable read: 
My statement to conference that change of government in Cambodia is legal confirmed by examination here. Lon Nol had been elected by National Assembly in August. Cheng Heng, now Head of State, has been elected  chairman,  National Assembly, defeating Sihanouk nominee. Government has hardly changed in personnel, only the position of Head of State being involved. Am reinforced in my belief that North Vietnam forces are committing angry aggression in Cambodia as blatant as Germans in Belgium in 1914 and 1940 and should be resisted. Suggest that you draw public attention to this fact by resolution and that steps be taken to guarantee the neutrality and sovereignty of Cambodia by United Nations action. Can think of no reason why Cambodians should not receive arms since SO per cent of the Cambodian Army has none. 
How different was this approach,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  from that of the  Deputy  Leader of the Labor Party. Let us look at what pressures were brought to bear on the honourable member for Wills by the Labor Party and by the Victorian State Executive of the Labor Party. The headlines of the daily papers tell the story. We start off on 17th July with the headline: 
Labor MHR urges 'Arm Cambodians'. 
The Melbourne 'Herald' on 23rd July reported: 
Bryant will demand guns. 
On 26th July the 'Sunday Observer* in Melbourne headed an article: 
Red tigers in Cambodia, by Gordon Bryant, MHR. 
Then on 24th July the 'Canberra Times* stated: 

 Mr Bryant Back. Duty to support Cambodia. 
The following headlines are a little more subdued. On 28th July this heading appeared in the Melbourne 'Herald': 
Why I think Cambodia needs help - says  Mr Bryant.  Honourable members will notice that under the pressure of the left wing of the Labor Party the story was being toned down a bit. The Melbourne 'SunPictorial' carried the headline: 
Hell to' to change policy on Cambodia. 
Then on 26th July another newspaper stated: 
Bryant prepares to explain statements. 
The Melbourne 'Age' on 30th July reported: Bryant puts his case on Cambodia. 
Finally, on 4th August this appeared in the Australian': 
MP changes view on Cambodia. 1 think this is a little unfair to the honourable member for Wills. As I said, 1 have great respect for his integrity. Although it appeared that perhaps he would go back on what he said because he was under pressure from the left wing of the Labor Party, in actual fact he has since reiterated his views. The next step in the drama came soon afterwards. The so-called Victorian Vietnam Moratorium Committee - that Committee which protests so loudly its belief in dissent and free expression - banned the honourable member for Wills from appearing or speaking on its platforms, lt was frightened of the truth which he might tell. Here, surely, by its own actions was the Vietnam Moratorium Committee condemned. Here, surely, was the proof by the organisers of the Moratorium that the only peace they want is the surrender of the whole of Indo-China to the North Vietnamese Communist invaders. To my knowledge only one member of the Opposition, the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen),  for whom 1 have a great deal of respect, bothered to dissociate himself from the action of the Vietnam Moratorium Committee in banning the honourable member for Wills. On the other hand, that great believer in the right to disagree, the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  - a close colleague, one would have thought, of the honourable member for Wills - actually upheld the Vietnam Moratorium Committee's right to bar the honourable member for Wills from addressing any Moratorium Committee meeting. It is interesting to read what the Sydney 'Daily Telegraph' had to say on 4th September on this matter: 
The barring of  Mr Bryant  has produced an issue of conscience for the ALP which has declared formal support for the Moratorium 
Campaign starting on September 16th and continuing until September 20th. In previous Moratorium campaigns, the Communist Party provided much of the dynamic and some of the organisation. 
It goes on: 

 Mr Bryant's consistency in opposing aggression whatever its source could prejudice the success of the coming campaign and underline the guiding influence exercised by the Communist Party. 
In a letter to the Secretary of the Vietnam Moratorium Committee the honourable member for Wills said this: 
Dear  Mr Lloyd, 
I have received your letter setting out the resolution which was to ensure that I did not address meetings sponsored by the executive. 
I assume from that the Moratorium Committee supports the North Vietnamese military operations against Cambodia. 
And how right he was. On the same day the Minister for External Affairs  (Mr McMahon)  announced that Australia had offered to Cambodia $2m in 1970-71, a lift of $900,000 on the present $1.im that we already give. The Minister told this House: 
The aid will be for logistic support items of equipment, dual purpose items and if necessary, arms. 
Previously the Australian Government had refused to supply arms so as not to complicate the Djakarta peace initiatives in which Australia participated with Indonesia and other neutral Asian countries. Australia was naturally anxious to avoid the charge of supplying equipment before all peace moves were thoroughly tried. But as we have learned only too well at the Paris peace talks the North Vietnamese Communists are interested only in total surrender, and if the Moratorium Committee has its way and Australia and American troops are withdrawn prematurely then that is exactly what the North Vietnamese will achieve. 
There may well be some woolly-minded people sucked in by the hard core left of the Moratorium. During their first Moratorium campaign in May the Communists concealed their presence on that Committee fairly well but this time they have become rather careless. They even planned to bring out to Australia the Vietcong and North Vietnamese spokesmen, people who are engaged in killing Australian servicemen, to spread their evil propaganda in this country. That was bad enough, but as a returned serviceman and a member of the Returned Services League I was particularly revolted to read in the Press last week a report that the Vietnam Moratorium Committee intends to use the traditional red poppy of Anzac on a macabre coffin draped with a North Vietnamese and a Vietcong flag in the march in Melbourne on 18th September. 
That is quite true, their leader did stand under a Vietcong flag, and right outside this very Parliament. In the coffin will be the names of Australian soldiers killed by the Vietcong. Is there no limit to the depths to which these people will sink? Is it any wonder that the South Australian branch of the Australian Labor Party has withdrawn its support from the Moratorium and the Queensland branch of the ALP is giving only grudging support. But the Leader of the Opposition and the Federal parliamentary body of the Labor Party are strangely silent. We have heard a lot about hijacking recently and I say that this attempt to take the law of the land out of the hands of Parliament and into the hands of the mobs in the streets is the greatest hijacking of all; it is the hijacking of democracy. A premature withdrawal of Australian and American troops would only result in a North Vietnamese takeover of Indo-China. Next on the list would be Thailand and a withdrawal would not, as the organisers of this Moratorium claim, stop the killing. 
As Dennis Warner pointed out in the Melbourne 'Herald' in November last there are, according to the captured  Deputy  Chief of Staff of the North Vietnamese Fifth Division, 3 million South Vietnamese on the North Vietnamese liquidation list. I say to members of the Opposition: 'If you succeed with the withdrawal of Australian and American troops you will not stop the killing. You will kill these 3 million South Vietnamese people as surely as if you murdered them with your own guns.' There is no doubt that knowingly or not the people who support the Moratorium are doing the work of Hanoi in what the honourable member for Wills has described as 'aggression as blatant as the Germans committed in Belgium in 1914 and 1940.' I defy honourable members opposite to deny that he said that and I defy them to disagree with him. Let us hope that in the interests of the people of Cambodia, Laos and South Vietnam and, in the final analysis, Australia the Moratorium people are not successful in their aims. 
Both the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  and I are graduates in economics, and I was rather surprised that an economics graduate should deliver a speech such as the one that we have just heard. I thought for a while in the middle of his speech that perhaps he had also studied mathematics, because he was giving us quite a lot of figures, but when I jotted them down and found that they did not add up I began to think that he had not studied mathematics very well either. I was under the impression that anyone who had studied economics would know of the Keynesian theory of economics, but from the speech that the honourable member for Oxley has just given it is apparent that be has not heard of it or, if he has, he has forgotten about it 
The honourable member did his course by correspondence, 1 understand, while he was a member of this Parliament, and this is all to hrs credit. I congratulate him on it but I cannot help wondering whether that part of the course dealing with economic theory went astray in the mail. The honourable member for Oxley is an intelligent and hard working member of this Parliament, and I am inclined to believe that for the purpose of this debate he has just put the Keynesian theory to the back of bis mind. Perhaps I can refresh his memory. John Maynard Keynes, or Lord Keynes as he was later to become, was a brilliant lecturer in economics at Cambridge University who in 1936 published a book called The General Theory of Employment, Interest and Money'. Keynes maintained that the economic system has no automatic tendency to full employment and that unless certain controls are placed on the economy then the cycle of boom and depression with which we were all familiar in the pre-war days would continue.  His  theory was basically that in times of inflation interest rates should be increased and taxation should be increased, thus reducing spending in the private sector of the economy, and that Government spending likewise should be kept to an absolute minimum. This would have the effect of reducing demand te a position where it could be equated to the supply of labour and resources at that time. 
In time of unemployment the exact reverse, of course, would apply. In a depression every encouragement is given to the private sector to expand. Money is made easier to borrow by reducing interest rates, taxation is reduced and Government expenditure on public works and social services is expanded to take up the slack of unemployment. This, of course, as honourable members should be aware, was the direct opposite to what governments had done previously. During the depression instead of expanding the economy governments had clamped down on government expenditure and this, of course, had only compounded the problem. Instead of arresting unemployment it had accelerated it. In 1940 Keynes joined the British Treasury and was responsible for the new concept of budgetary control which has been followed by governments ever since. It was adopted by the Chifley Government here in Australia and has been carried on by succeeding Liberal and Country Party governments. As a result of this policy, and I pay credit to the former Prime Minister,  Mr Chifley,  for its adoption, Australia has been freed from the cycle of boom and depression ever since. 
It is not necessary for me to say here today that the economy of this country has been undergoing inflationary pressures. This is well known to all, and in line with the Keynesian theory it has been essential that the Government take steps to dampen down the economy. This was done by the recent increase in interest rates and by bringing down a deflationary budget, which is what this Budget is, and this would have been done, I submit, by any responsible government, be it Liberal or Labor. I listened to most of the speeches on the Budget made by members of the Opposition and I was appalled at the lack of conception which exists on that side of the House of what a balanced" economy really means. I am old enough to remember as a small boy in the 1930s queues of people lined up for a free handout of a loaf of bread and I never want to witness that again in Australia. The last depression was due mainly to bad financial policies by governments throughout the world. Of course, the Government would have liked to have given more to the pensioners this year than just 50c. Of course the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  would have wanted to do much more than that. There has never been, I would submit, a Minister with more understanding of the problems of pensioners than the present Minister, or one more desirous of assisting them and I am proud to be associated with him. 
It amazes me how some people, including honourable members opposite, seem to think that governments can just pluck money out of the air. To put it in simple terms, what really happens is that governments collect money from the taxpayers and then redistributes that money between the varying needs of the nation. If one section gets more, another section must of necessity get less. If one section is to get more than previously then other sections can only get the same amount as previously by taking more from the taxpayers by way of increased taxation. But this Government, and also the Labor Party, went to the people at the last election with a policy of reducing income taxation on middle and lower income groups. Whichever Party had been elected at the last election, neither would have had a mandate to increase income taxation, and the only way any government could have increased the pensions in these circumstances would have been by cutting down on some other vital sector of the economy. I for one would, like the Minister, have preferred to have seen the pension increase much greater than it was. This could have been done if the Government had not honoured its promise to reduce income tax but the Government has honoured that promise, just as the Labor Party would have been forced to do had it won the last election. The increase in pensions would have been higher had we cut down on our expenditure on defence, on national development, on education, on overseas aid, on Aboriginals, on housing or on health. But the honourable member for Oxley has made no positive or practical proposals on what function of government should have been reduced to finance the higher pension which he advocates. Unlike the Opposition the Government has looked at the Budget as a whole concept. 
It is rather interesting to turn back the pages of Hansard to the Budget debate of 1949-50 when the right honourable  Mr J.  B. Chifley was Prime Minister and Treasurer of this country. At that time when he brought in a budget which had not increased pensions in any way whatsoever - I can see that the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope)  well remembers this - he said:  the Australian Labor Party, and particularly myself, would have liked to have seen several measures introduced in this country, including a scheme of national superannuation. 1 think that it will be possible in the days to come to give consideration to such a measure. I stress, however, that it could not be financed out of present taxes. 
He went on to say: 
The honourable member for Bourke 
I believe in those days it was  Mrs Blackburn  -  also referred to endowment of the first child. This would cost over 30,000,000 a year. Furthermore, the abolition of the means test would cost another 60,000,000 a year. 
That was back in 1949.  Mr Chifley  went on:  lt is of no use attempting to fool the people with promises. These things can be done only by the imposition of additional taxes. They are, therefore, linked with the matter of general finance. 
I throw back at the Opposition and at the honourable member for Oxley those words of the last Labor Prime Minister, that they are, therefore linked with the matter of general finance'. 
The whole proposition that the Labor Party is putting forward and the way they are trying to pull this Bill to pieces is without any comprehension of the effect their proposals would have on the whole of the general finance of the nation. First and foremost it was necessary for this Government to bring in a deflationary budget. Secondly, the Government needed to honour its promise to reduce income tax, and thirdly it also had to honour its pledge to reform the health scheme. It is because of the large allocation from the national welfare fund to health this financial year that more has not been available to keep up the pace of improvement in the pension rate which this Government has maintained since it came into office. Payments this year from our welfare fund will reach an all time high of $ 1,473m, which is an increase of $13.) m over last year or an increase of almost 10 per cent. This year our allocation of funds for age, invalid and widow pensions alone will exceed a total of $ 1,000m. This year the increase in pensions will mean that the pensioner will receive sufficient to maintain the real value of the pension but it will not continue the accelerated improvement which has been the policy of this Government since John Gorton became Prime Minister. It will, in other words, offset for the pensioner the effects of inflation and it is disappointing to all members on this side of the House that the Government has been unable to maintain the real progress which it has achieved in the last 2 Budgets. 
The increase in the pension this year will mean that under the tapered means test a single pensioner can now earn $41 a week and a married pensioner couple can now earn $72 a week between them before the pension will cut out. And let no one forget that the tapered means test which was introduced in the Budget last year by the present Minister was possibly the greatest step forward for pensioners ever taken by any government in the history of this country. It is very interesting to read from the Budget Speech of  Mr Chifley  back in 1949. He said: 
Under the present provisions relating to the payment of invalid and age pensions, a man and bis wife, who are both pensioners, may each receive an income and still retain their right to pensions. Including income from other sources, they may receive 7 5s. a week between them. 
That is $14.50; remember that figure. He went on to say, and mark this: 
Nobody can contend that that is not a comfortable amount for the sustenance of old people who are not compelled to go to work and who do not need the dissipations that youth sometimes indulge in to gain experience of life. 
Those are words spoken by Ben Chifley in 1949. It is interesting to calculate from the cost of living index just what $14.50 in 1949 is equivalent to today, lt comes to about $35 a week. This was the ceiling  Mr Chifley  - the last Labor Prime Minister of this country - put on the amount that should be required for a pensioner couple to live in comfort. Under the present tapered means test a married couple today can have income and a full pension up to an amount of $44.50 per week and income and a part pension of up to $72 per week, Whereas  Mr Chifley  set the ceiling at $35 on today's prices, under the present Government today a pensioner couple can have $72 a week, which is over twice what the former Labor Prime Minister said was sufficient for any couple to live on. Since the time of the Chifley Government many fringe benefits have been introduced. We as a Party when we came into office were not satisfied with the Chifley ceiling. We did not agree with it. We have doubled it and we are proud of the fact that we have done so. I do not know whether the Labor Party will disclaim what its former Prime Minister said but that certainly was not a ceiling that we as the Government were prepared to accept. 
The real test in this pension rise is the real value of the pension. Figures can be twisted in many ways, as we heard from the speech of the honourable member for Oxley. The pension given by the last Labor Government was $4.25 per week which is worth $10.89 when adjusted to today's values. When the Gorton Government came into office some  2i  years ago the pension at the real value was $13.98. Today it is $15.50. The record of this Government in assistance to the pensioner is a good one. We would all like to have seen a continuation this year of the improvement of the real position of the pensioner, which is the avowed policy of this Government. As the Minister said in his second reading speech, people have become so accustomed to this Government's policy of continuous improvement that any slackening in the rate of advance appears to be almost a regression. But the Minister has assured us that any slackening is only temporary and that as soon as it can do the Government will bring forward another instalment in its continuous plan of raising the standard of pensioners in real terms. 
I am sure that Chifley, who believed in and implemented the Keynesian theory of a controlled economy, would have been dismayed and alarmed had he heard the speech of the honourable member for Oxley and his extraordinary statements today. I would like to quote the words of Chifley from Hansard of 22nd November 1950. explaining why. the Labor Government in 1949 did not increase pensions in the Budget that year. He said: 
The Labor Party did not want to buy votes at the last general election by giving away a few favours on the eve of polling day. I have always endeavoured to preserve some semblance of political honesty and I did not want to make any promises to the electors which could not be fulfilled. 

 Mr Chifley went on to say: 
I opposed the taking of any action by the Labor Government on the eve of a general election that might have gained a few extra votes for its candidates in return for favours granted. 
I commend these words of  Mr Chifley  to the honourable member for Oxley. 
The honourable member for Oxley has moved an amendment to this Bill. I am afraid that I cannot support this amendment. The amendment lumps together 4 different propositions. The first is that the increases proposed are inadequate. I do not believe that is so if we take into account the whole economy at the present time at the present inflationary level. I agree with the words of  Mr Chifley  that at the present time it is all that can be done. We are sorry that this is so but like  Mr Chifley  in 1949 the Government has found itself in a position on this one occasion when it cannot do as much for pensioners as it would like to do but it has - unlike the Chifley Government in 1949 - at least kept up the real standard of the pensioners by giving a 50c increase. The second part of the amendment moved by the honourable member for Oxley states: 
. social service payments generally are inadequate to maintain an acceptable standard of living. 
That is a very sweeping statement and is lumped together with other sections of the amendment. I do not think anyone in this House should be asked to support it. The third section of the amendment states: 
. steps should be taken immediately to eliminate poverty. 
I think that all governments - be they State Governments or the Federal Government - are taking steps to alleviate what pockets of poverty still remain and poverty is, of course, whether we like it or not, something that will always be with us. But we are certainly doing what we as a Federal Government can do to eliminate poverty. The final section of the amendment is: 
. a contributory national superannuation system should be established and the means test eliminated. 
I find myself in some sympathy with this section of the amendment. I do not think I have seen the table which has been incorporated in Hansard and presented by the honourable member for Oxley but I would imagine that it would be impossible in 1 year to carry out this fourth step. The cost would be prohibitive. Although I am in favour of the general principle of this proposal I do feel that I could not support the amendment as it is. 
Whatever else Chifley was, he was a responsible Treasurer and he knew, as apparently the honourable member for Oxley does not know - or else will not admit - that in a time when demand is in excess of the supply capability irresponsible government financial policies can only increase the inflationary pressures. What would it profit a pensioner if he gained an extra 50c and then had this whittled away by inflationary pressures due to irresponsible government financial management? I will be very pleased to hear the contributions of those honourable members opposite who just laughed because so often they sit back and say 'Yes, give more to this section and more to that section and more to another section', but they never come up with a concrete proposal as to where the money is to come from. When they do that they will be entitled to laugh. The Government is charged with maintaining a sound economy. Irresponsible government financial policies - which I am sure would be the case if the Labor Party ever got into power - only lead down one road - the road to disaster and depression, ft is easy when one is in opposition to make promises but it is another thing for a government in power to fulfill them. A government in power must take a more responsible and realistic approach to the economy. Perhaps some day, if the Labor Party ever comes to power - and God help us if it does - the honourable member for Oxley may realise the truth of the words of the former Labor Prime Minister, Ben Chifley. 
One thing 1 like about the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  is that he is honest and, unlike some other members of the Labor Party who try to pretend that the socialisation plank in their platform no longer exists, particularly at election time, he is one who has always come out and admitted both in this House and elsewhere that he would like to see socialisation in Australia. One of the aims of his being in Parliament is to see that this is so. 1 find it rather strange that the Opposition should have moved this amendment to the Bill. As Socialists who believe in the nationalisation of services it is surely a little incongruous that honourable members opposite should desire to remove the control of the postal service from a government department to set it up as a pseudo-private statutory corporation. This surely is a reversal of form. I suppose a statutory corporation is, after all, the closest a Socialist can get to private enterprise within the limits of his conscience. Perhaps it is a grudging admission by the Socialists that private enterprise is not so bad after all. It is possible, of course, that the Opposition is so bereft of arguments against this Bill that it has moved this amendment as some sort of red herring to divert attention from the real matter before us today or. perhaps, lacking any true policy on this matter, it has decided to emulate the now defunct Wilson Labor Government in England. It has heard somewhere that the British Labor Government set up a statutory corporation to run the Post Office in that country and, as good Socialists, it has decided that Australia should follow suit. When one reflects on the economic mess into which the Wilson Government plunged Britain and when one thinks of the way it was swept from office by the British voters, I do not think it is an example which the Australian Labor Party should wish to follow. 
It has become necessary for the Government to bring forward this Bill today because the Post Office will show an anticipated loss for 1970-71 of Slim. There will be a loss in postal services of $30m which will be offset to some extent by a profit in the telecommunications section of Si 9m. The Government is faced with two alternatives. It either increases postal charges so that those using the postal services pay the cost of their use or it allows a loss to occur and makes the loss good from Consolidated Revenue; in other words, subsidises the users of the Post Office from taxpayers' funds. If the Opposition could point to inefficiency or wastage on the part of the public servants who work in the Post Office it may be justified in opposing the increased charges. The honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Webb)  endeavoured to do this but we, as members of Parliament, all get complaints from time to time about postal services. I agree with the PostmasterGeneral  (Mr Hulme)  that it is inevitable in an organisation the size of the Post Office, handling the vast volume of business - some 2.700 million articles a year, I believe - that some errors or mistakes will occur. But from  my  own experience I would say that the employees in the Department do a very fine job. 1 think that proof ot the way in which the Post Office has endeavoured to absorb the increased costs by greater efficiency is the fact that although Post Office business increased by 6 per cent in 1969-70 the staff increased by only 1.1 per cent. It is more than 3 years since there was an increase in the basic postage rate and during this period there has been an overall increase in wage rates payable to postal staff of something like 29 per cent and although, as 1 have shown, the Post Office has been able to absorb some of this increased cost in wages it obviously cannot absorb all the increases any more than a statutory corporation or private enterprise can. As some 70 per cent of the cost of the postal service is a labour cost, it is obvious that the postal side of the Department is the one most adversely affected. As the Minister pointed out in his second reading speech, the basic postage rate will have risen by only 45 per cent compared with increases in postal wage rates of 100 per cent. I do not know whether the Labor Party holds the view that the workers in the postal services should not have received these increases - apparently it accepts their increases. If so it must accept the fact that either postal rates must go up or the general taxpayer must meet the loss and subsidise those who would use the postal services. I believe that those who use the facilities of the Post Office should pay for that use. 
The average taxpayer, 1 suppose, would not write more than 3 or 4 letters a week and the increase in postal charges will not mean much to him. However, as we all know, there are organisations and business houses pouring out thousands of publications a week to further their own point of view - the honourable member for Melbourne Ports gave some examples of this - or to increase their sales. I maintain that if they wish to do this, they are quite at liberty to do so, but they should be prepared to pay for the services they use and not expect the ordinary taxpayer to subsidise their effort. 
The honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  listed 4 firms that had written to us. I think all members of Parliament have received these letters.It is a fact that 7,600 newspapers and periodicals are registered with the Post Office. Last year 158 million of these articles were posted at an average charge of 1.7c each. The postal charge on 75 million of them was only1/2c to lc. The postal service lost $9m last year in this category alone. I wonder how many of these publications ended up in the waste paper baskets, unread. All of us as members of Parliament Know that every day our desks are piled high with literature that we do not wish to receive, that we do not have time to read and that we possibly have no interest in reading. 
A letter received from Page Publications and one from Thompson Publications listed substantial percentage increases which they said had been made in the postage of their items. Because the base figure of1/2c is so low, any major step towards reducing the concession would naturally appear to be a considerable percentage increase. However, in absolute terms, the increases are reasonable. On a I oz publication there was an increase of 11/2 cents; on a 2 oz publication there was an increase of lc; on a 3 oz publication there was an increase of11/2c; and on a 6 oz publication there was an increase of 21/2c. 
Whilst these organisations feel they want to pump out this information, I do not think they have very legitimate reasons for complaint. 
A letter was also received from the Royal Automobile Club of Victoria. The automobile associations post about 19 million magazines annually. Any increase in rates will have a substantial effect on their postage bills. At present these organisations are paying postage of lc to11/2c a copy and the increase proposed is generally about1c to11/2c. Expressed in terms of the individual member's annual subscription of between $5 and $6.50 it represents between 9c and 18c extra a year.' It is not the role of the Post Office to subsidise motorists' service organisations. Nevertheless, the rates proposed are still only 30 per cent of normal printed matter rates. Because my wife and I both need to drive cars we receive 2 copies of the RACV journals each month. I am quite sure that they end up in the waste paper basket unread. I wonder how many other families do the same sort of thing. If they do and if these organisations wish to send their magazines 1 do not think that the ordinary taxpayer should be called upon to subsidise them. 
Let us look at the question of interest. How often do we hear from people who perhaps do not understand accounting procedure's  -  I presume that the honourable member for Burke is one of them - that the Post Office should not have to pay interest on capital which it borrows from the Treasury? Vincent Matthews of the Melbourne 'Herald' published an article on postal charges last Saturday in which he said: 
We are not likely to he convinced that the way the Post Office puts up its charges is justified until the Department is run as a business instead of a public service department with so little say in the control  of its  finances and management. 
Surely  Mr Matthews  and others must 
Knowthat  all  business  andindustrymust pay interest on capital borrowed. Every accountant and business man recognises that interest on capital borrowed is a legitimate charge against profit. Even the ordinary wage earner buying his own home must pay interest on capital borrowed. This applies to private enterprise and it applies equally whether the Post Office is a Government department or a statutory body. Other government business activities all pay interest on capital borrowed. The Postmaster-General mentioned Trans Australia Airlines, Qantas Airways Limited, the Snowy Mountains Authority, the Australian National Line, the Government Printer, the Overseas Telecommunications Commission and the Australian Capital Territory Electricity Commission as some which readily come to mind. 
As I said- if the honourable member had been listening - it is a sound, accepted accounting principle. If the honourable member likes to talk to the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  who is one of his colleagues and an accountant I am sure he will explain it to him. Even if the Postmaster-General's Department became a statutory authority it would find, in line with other statutory authorities, that interest on capital borrowed would need to be paid. Some of the statutory authorities I have mentioned are also required to meet various indirect taxes. If the PMG became a statutory authority it would be consistent for it to meet these charges also, which would not help in keeping down postal prices. On the contrary, it would add $20m to the cost of running the Post Office which would be equivalent to lc on the basic postage rate. Even the British Post Office, as a statutory authority, is required by Act of Parliament to show a return of 10 per cent on investment in its telecommunications services, and 2 per cent on expenditure in its postal services. I understand that TAA, which is closer to home here in Australia, is required to show a reasonable return. For 1968-69 this was set at 7.5 per cent. 
Although a statutory corporation might bring more benefits, it is hard to see that the customer would not be required to pay more. If the Treasury decided to diverge from sound financial practice and not charge interest on capital borrowed by the Post office, what would be the position? Obviously the cost of running the Post Office would fall, but Government revenue also would fall by the same amount. The Budget position would then have to be adjusted by one means or another, perhaps by reducing Government expenditure on things such as pensions, education, defence, national development and health. The Opposition might not object to a reduction in the spending on defence, but I think they would be the first to squeal if that reduction occurred in pensions and health. Alternatively, the Government would have to increase taxation to make up for the loss of revenue. Thus, the taxpayer who may not use the facilities of the Post Office more than once or twice a week would find himself subsidising the costs of big business enterprises which use those facilities thousands of times a week. I do not think that this can be justified. I cannot see how the Labor Party, which has said it is the champion of the small man but which I doubt, could justify the small man subsidising big business. We have all seen in the past how the Labor Party can change its ideals quite easily when it suits its purpose, so I suppose it could easily do so again. 
The charging of interest on capital loaned to the PMG by the Treasury gives a correct relationship between the prices of communication services and other commodities. It is a legitimate financial charge. I do not believe that it is the role of the Post Office or the taxpayer to subsidise business, the printing and publishing industry or the activities of institutions, organisations or societies no matter how desirable their activities may be. In moving the amendment the Opposition has made quite a point of saying that it is not necessarily asking for a statutory corporation but that it would like a committee to be set up to look into it. The Opposition asks as part of its amendment that the Bill be withdrawn. Does it expect the Bill to be withdrawn and the Government to sit down and wait until a committee is appointed and makes its report? If so, the loss to the taxpayer in the subsidy that he would have to pay towards the Post Office would continue at the present rate. The choice facing the Government today is either to maintain the present rates and subsidise the loss of $llm with taxpayers' funds or to increase the postal charges, as is proposed in the Bill, so that those who use the facilities of the Postal Department will pay the cost of that use. I believe that in making the latter choice the Government has made a financially wise and just decision. I support the Bill and I oppose the amendment. 
Some time in the future, and the not too distant future, Australia will have lying to its north the independent nation of New Guinea. At its nearest point, New Guinea is no more than 100 miles from Cape York and what we say and do today will have a great bearing on our future relationship with that country. In developing the Territory of Papua and New Guinea towards eventual independence we must always keep in mind the hope that when independence finally does come Australia will have gained a friend and ally, one with whom we can continue close cooperation in our mutual interests. The policy of this Government has been that independence should neither be hastened nor delayed, but rather that it should reflect the capacity and the desire of the community to accept greater responsibility. 
While the right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell)  was Leader of the Opposition we saw a sound and responsible attitude on the part of the Australian Labor Party towards New Guinea. Whatever else may be said about the right honourable member for Melbourne, he would in no way prejudice future Australia-New Guinea relations by playing party politics. But this policy by the Labor Party was changed when it changed its Leader. It was certainly changed dramatically by the visit of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  early this year. Let us, in retrospect, consider the effects and the blunders of that visit because many people in New Guinea consider irreparable harm was done. As the 'Gazelle News', a publication in New Guinea, said: 
Few people will forget that visit, for he left behind him a trail of promises, uncertainties and half truths. 

 His first stop was at Daru Island in western Papua where he was reported to have urged the local members of the House of Assembly to take political action as soon as possible to demand that the Australian border be withdrawn closer to Australia. It was also at Daru where he was reported to have said for the first time that New Guinea under a Labor government would have internal self-government in 1972 and complete independence in 1976, irrespective of whether the people of New Guinea wanted it or not. In the Highlands he met the same type of political thinking that has nonplussed United Nations visiting missions - the fear of the coastal people developing too quickly and dominating the Highlanders, allied wim the suspicion chai once independence comes the Australians will go home taking their money with them. He assured them that if Labor became the Australian Government, we would 'go on giving New Guinea plenty of money*. But it was in Rabaul that he reached his highpoint. 
Addressing several thousand antiAdministration Mataungan Association Tolai people, he commended the Mataungans for their nationalistic fervour in their opposition to the duly elected Gazelle MultiRacial Council. As far as the residents and the Gazelle councillors were concerned here was the alternative Prime Minister of Australia giving Labor Party support for an organisation which had run against democratic government, beaten up influential leaders of the Tolai people, refused to pay taxes duly levied by the Gazelle Council and drained the Central Treasury, because of police actions, of money vitally needed for general development. Is it any wonder that angry residents of Rabual sent a cable of protest to the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)?  In his reply, the Prime Minister said that he believed the statements of the Leader of the Opposition were calculated to worsen the divisions among the Tolai people. He pointed out that the Mataungan Association had been given the opportunity of a referendum to solve the Council dispute by secret ballot but had refused. He said that the Association had resorted to violence and that the Leader of the Opposition's support of this attitude and action was emphatically repudiated by the Australian Government. He said that he hoped the Government's expression of intention would help repair the damage caused by the Labor Party visit. 
Let us read what a local publication called 'Islands Newsbeat' had to say. It is published in Rabaul, ft described the visit of the Leader of the Opposition as:  . . being one of the raggiest political games ever played in the Territory. The Opposition Leader without so much as a blanche swept himself past the thoughts of law-abiding citizens to give strength to the hard core dictating to the masses of the Mataungan Association. He threw up false hopes to the Association's uneducated and semi-literate, and in arm-waving displays of affection and brotherhood rattled off inaccuracies and ill-informed compliments. 
Hie Opposition Leader seems to have achieved ens thaI - if the mjority of Australians h- ve the wit with which they are credited, his tour has assured him of his regular seat in the Opposition Benches after the next Federal Elections. Pity, however, the poor Mataungans who so gullibly swallowed the Whitlam prophesy that he will be Prime Minister within 3 years. Pity the poor Mataungans, their intellectually blind, lame and needy, who flocked to squat at the feet of their saviour and came away from the Matupit Island meeting unhealed. 
And pity, more than any, the law abiding majority of Tolais, the other native groups, tha 
Europeans, the Chinese and the Mixed Race communities who will have to live under tensions and fears of violence because of the political paddling of a man whose party has as much hope of victory at the next elections as Rabaulites have of seeing snow on the Mother Volcano. 
Whitlam thought he had scored a point because 10,000 Mataungans turned up, He'd lost. 10,000 certainly did turn up - but 56,000 other Tolais stayed away. 
It was into this sort of atmosphere that the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham),  the honourable member for Evans  (Dr Mackay)  and I came when we landed in Rabaul a week or so later. As one local resident said to me, the damage which the Whitlam visit has done to New Guinea will live long after he has gone. Another said to me:  'Mr Whitlam  states we New Guineans are capable of running the country and making our own decisions. Then he goes on to say that he will force us to accept complete independence by 1976. Surely if his first statement is correct then we are quite capable of telling him and not he us, when self-government will come.' 
There is a genuine, land problem on the Gazelle Peninsula. There are something like 70,000 Tolais and they have a natural increase rate nearly 4 times as great as Australia's and the Mataungan problem is, in part, a manifestation of the growing pressure for land. The Germans seized land for plantations between 1884 and 1914 when they ruled New Guinea and there exists today a mutual feeling of dislike between some planters and some Tolai. The solution to the land problem in New Guinea is not an easy one and here again Labor Party policy has come under attack. Angus Smales, a newspaper correspondent in New Guinea since 1956, recently published an article entitled  'Mr Barnard  is wrong . . . Our New Guinea land policy is right'. That article states: 
The  Deputy  Labor Leader,  Mr Lance  Barnard, appears to have fallen into the same trap as many other critics of Australian policy in PapuaNew Guinea. 

 Mr Barnard suggests that some benevolent commission merely has to strip white settlers of their land and hand the land over to the Rabaul Tolais to make all the problems magically disappear. 
He is quite wrong. 
This would achieve nothing more than a postponement of the present crisis for a few years after which the problems would return with greater intensity. 
If the entire Rabaul area were turned over to the Tolai people today land pressure would be eased for only 10 years at the most. 
Quite clearly the answer to the problem docs not lie in agricultural land in the Rabaul area. 
The Tolai people will have to learn to migrate to other settlement areas - something they have opposed for years, although other New Guinea communities have learnt to do so. 
They will also hope to develop a greater interest in work and industry not directly associated with the land. 
He then makes this rather interesting point: 
Furthermore, before the white man came to the Rabaul area retention of land rights was by brute force. Historical research indicates a continual ebb and flow in so-called ownership. 
Little more than a century ago the Tolais themselves pushed out the Bainings people who originally inhabited the Rabaul area. 
Hie only sacredness about Tolai land claims today is that the Tolais happened to be in power when the white man arrived. 
The Government is well aware of the land problem on the Gazelle Peninsula and has recently resumed 15,000 acres for subdivision to the Tolais, including the Mataungans. In addition the Administrator,  Mr Les  Johnson, disclosed recently that the Administration is looking at the possibility of buying 30 plantations from existing expatriate owners and turning them over lo native farmers. A recent review of these problems to find the best solution to speed economic progress and still protect native customary land has been made by the Government. Legislation has been proposed to provide for a single register of titles, a system of deciding customary ownership in specially selected areas, control of local bodies over dealings in converted land and registration of customary groups of land owners. 
Whilst I was in Rabaul 1 met 2 of the leaders of the Mataungans,  Mr Oscar  Tammur, the member for Kokopo in the House of Assembly, and  Mr John  Kaputin Oscar Tammur refused to meet the honourable member for North Sydney, the honourable member for Evans and me but a friend did drive me out to his village. At first he agreed to meet me half way between the car and his home and eventually, as it rained, we moved into the car. I asked him why he had this resentment towards Australia. Apart from the multiracial council and the land problem, his complaints were like those of any other politician. He blamed Australia for the poor water supply in Rabaul and the poor roads. He demanded a new and enlarged airport and so on. If ever I needed convincing that New Guinea should have early internal self-government  I  was convinced by that conversation. It is obvious that with self-government  Mr Tammur  would no longer be able to blame the Australians. He would then have to front up to his fellow countrymen in the House of Assembly and state his case. 
John Kaputin, the other Mataungan leader, comes from a respected Tolai family and received bis secondary education in Australia. He speaks perfect English and is an emotional and fiery speaker. He is a man who could become a future leader of his country. I have met him on a number of occasions and have had long discussions with him. He has visited my home in Melbourne and I think I can regard him as a friend. He is a person who could do a great deal of good for the people of New Guinea or he could do a great deal of harm. I have said this to him. I suggested he should stand for election to the House of Assembly in 1972 because I believe, rightly directed within the democratic process, his talents could prove a valuable contribution to his country. 
Unfortunately, attempts have been made already by members of the far left from both the University of Papua and New Guinea and Australia to influence him and use his talents for their own purposes. We saw recently how the organisers of the socalled Moratorium Campaign paid his fare to Australia and endeavoured to depict him as some sort of Black Power leader. I hope he is strong enough and intelligent enough not to allow himself to be used by these people. If he does fall under their control I believe it will be New Guinea's loss. The birth of the new independent nation of New Guinea will not be an easy one. There are many problems to be solved. They will not be solved by the attitude of the Leader of the Opposition during his visit to New Guinea earlier this year. I regret that the Opposition has  decidedtoplaypoliticalfootballonthe  question of New Guinea. There are no votes to be gained here in Australia for such a policy but there are much graver issues at stake. The decisions we make today will undoubtedly affect for good or for bad the whole future relationship of our 2 countries. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
On the point of order- 
On the point of order,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  1 have in front of me on a sheet of paper the words that T did use.  1  wrote them down before I made my personal explanation. 
There are two points that I have written down here. This is what f did say. I said that I went outside with  Mr Arthur  to hear what advice the Leader of the Opposition was giving to. those who want a Communist victory in Vietnam. 1 did not say that the Leader of the Opposition wanted a Communist victory in Vietnam. There is another point on which 1 claim to have been misrepresented. I raised the point of order because the honourable member for Grayndler implied that I went outside because I supported the Moratorium. I wish to say on my own behalf and on behalf of  Mr Arthur  who cannot speak here for himself that neither of us supports these people. We simply went out to have a look at what was going on, but neither of us supports them. 
Dissent from Ruling 
I was most interested to listen to the speech made by the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly).  Usually, when be makes a speech in this House, the honourable member makes so many outlandish statements that many of his speeches are regarded as a bit of a joke. But, tonight, I think the honourable member for Grayndler gave us a very reasoned and studied approach to the subject of immigration. 1 congratulate him on it. 1 think that his suggestion of an all party committee to look into the subject of immigration is something that is well worth considering. lt is just over 25 years since Australia's post-war immigration programme came into operation and it is interesting to note that, at this time, we are hearing criticism of the scheme. As one journalist wrote recently: Australia's immigration programme has been taken out of the sacred cow category and subjected to increasing criticism'. The Commercial Bank of Australia Ltd in a recent review was critical of the high rate of inflow, claiming that it prevented the maximation of economic growth. Professor E. L. Wheelwright, who is the Associate Professor of Economics at Sydney University, has maintained that our rate of increase of population is too high and the policy of indiscriminate migration, as he termed it, should cease.  Dr Evans,  a human biologist at the John Curtin School of Medical Research at the Australian National University, has said that the whole idea that we have to go on increasing our population size is open to question and that the advantages of a further increase are outweighed by the disadvantages. 
The Minister for Immigration  (Mr Lynch)  has been aware of this type of criticism for some time, and recently, as the honourable member for Grayndler said, the Minister announced that the Government would undertake a full scale review of Australia's immigration programame. It will be the first of its kind undertaken in Australia, and it will be a cost benefit analysis of the whole migration programme. As an accountant, I am all for cost benefit analyses. They let us know the cost of the benefit which we receive from the exercise, in this case, the migration programme. It is up to us, then, to weigh the cost against the benefit, and to decide whether we desire to proceed with the present programme, or increase, or decrease the flow. The migration programme is supported by all parties in this Parliament. The present scheme was introduced by the right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell)  when he was Minister for immigration in the Chifley Government, and it has been continued by succeeding Liberal and Country Party Governments.I think it is a matter for some pride, that Australia has absorbed some 2.6 million migrants since 1945. We now have in our population' a higher proportion of people born overseas than America ever had. One in every 6 persons in our cities, was born outside Australia. 
Although the Department of Immigration has existed for only a quarter of a century, Australia has gained much over its two century history from migration. Immigration started in Australia when the first 850 people landed at Sydney Cove in  1788,  and it has been said that the history of Australia has been the history of immigration. All of us in this House, are either immigrants ourselves, or descendants of immigrants, so that we might say that Australia's growth and economic strength have been founded on its immigration policy. I was pleased to read a. recent statement by the Minister that immigration to Australia would continue at a high level and that some 2 million new residents could come to Australia in the 1970's. I consider this sound policy. Of course, there is criticism in some quarters; of course, there are problems; of course, there are costs; and of course, there are debits. But the credits, both tangible and intangible, surely out- weighthedebits.Idonotbelievethatwe should allow the voices of doubt to slow down our rate of population growth. There is more truth to the old hackneyed phrase of 'populate or perish' than some people would admit. 
When I was a boy at school some economists said that Australia would never be able to maintain a population in excess of 20 million people. With our economic growth and our new-found resources, only a fool would make that prediction today. Who can look into the future and accurately forecast an optimum population for Australia? But there is an even stronger reason than our own selfish ideals of security and a better standard of living for accepting more people into this country, and it is a profoundly mora! one. In 1969, the world population increased by 71 million people. This was more than the combined total of those killed in both world wars,It is a gain of 2.2 people per second every day of the year and it means that each day there are 190,080 more mouths to feed. What moral right do we have to say we are not going to take our fair share of these people. What moral right have we to say: 'We cannot absorb you into our economy, because it might interfere with our standard of living.' 
This Tra alright. Jack' policy propounded by the Commercial Bank, Professor Wheelwright and  Dr Evans,  is morally indefensible. We will never be able to retain this country unless we do increase our population, whether we loose it by invasion or by default in the face of world opinion. 
It is sheer humbug for peopleto say that migration is the cause of pollution in our cities or that it cuts down on our quality of life. If there is pollution in our cities, it is a problem with which not only the Government, but also every citizen, must contend. But those of us who have been bom in this country do not have to look far to see what immigration has contributed in so many ways to what we have now come to accept as the Australian way of life. Sure, there have been problems of integration. Sure, there have been strains on housing and education, and, sure, there has been a tendency for migrants to settle in the already crowded cities of this continent. But these are not insurmountable problems. We must not limit ourexpansion because we run into a few difficulties. Australia is a country of vast potential and we need an expanding population to help to develop that potential. Since the Second World War, Australia has been fortunate in being able to attract a reason ale number of suitable migrants to this country, but these conditions may not always prevail. In the past, the numbers of immigrants coming to Australia has varied with wars, disasters, booms and depressions. Today, with economic buoyancy in Northern Europe and less unemployment in Southern Europe, it has become necessary for Australia to look farther afield for suitable migrants. Turkey is a typical example. 
I believe that there were misgivings on the part of some people who felt the Turks would not be readily assimilated. At the Eastbridge Hostel in Nunawading on the edge of my electorate of Deakin, 9 Turkish families have moved in in the past 2 months. Already 3 families have moved out to private accommodation. One family, the husband of whom was previously an accountant with an American firm in Ankara, spoke fluent English. Another was found a position with a firm of building supplies and the firm has already rung the hosie! asking for more Turkish workers, if they become available. It is essential, however, in expanding our population, that we continue our policy of maintaining an homogeneous society. We have all at some time been assailed with what has been called the 'White Australia policy', which is supposed to be the policy of succeeding governments to allow in only people of European extraction, because it is claimed we believe that they are superior to those with a different coloured skin. We all remember the rather facetious and witty remark of the right honourable member for Melbourne when he found it necessary to refuse entry to a certain Chinese gentleman named  Mr Wong,  that 'two Wongs don't make a White'. The Press of this country have never let him forget that remark made in jest. 
If the honourable member had been listening he would have heard me say that earlier. The honourable member for Port Adelaide may have misunderstood me. I was not in any way criticising the right honourable member for Melbourne. If I was doing anything I was criticising the Press. But our restricted immigration policy is not based on any theory of racial superiority. Australia's immigration policy is directed to maintaining a predominantly homogeneous population, mainly because we would not like to see Australia become the breeding ground of racial prejudice and hatred such as we are witnessing in America and England today. If we can adapt our resources to bringing in people who are readily able to be assimilated, then we may well avoid the problems of racial hatred, and maintain our goal of an homogeneous population. 
But our policy does not exclude nonEuropeans. There is provision for entry of the non-European spouse, unmarried minor children, aged parents and fiance of an Austraiian citizen or of persons having resident status in Australia. In addition, nonEuropeans may settle in Australia on the basis of their ability to integrate readily and their possession of qualifications which are positively useful. I have been responsible, through representations to the Minister concerned, for bringing more than a few such people into Australia. I have a lifelong friend whose father was Chinese and whose mother was Australian. He is an Australian of the very best type with a very fine Australian family. 
J travelled for some 5 weeks through 9 countries in Asia last year and the only people who asked me about our so-called White Australia Policy' were Australian journalists abroad. Perhaps it makes a good story back home, but it certainly does not help Australia's image. Most countries have a restricted immigration policy for varying reasons. I had lunch at the Chinese Embassy today and the Ambassador outlined his country's policy in this regard. Only yesterday the Ambassador for South Korea said in Melbourne once more in reply to a journalist who had asked about white Australia: 1  am sure that if  I  were in Australia's position  I  would have some sort of restriction, too. 
Let us by all means have this cost benefit analysis to let us know where we are heading. But for moral reasons as well as those of national security, let us not slacken in our efforts to expand this wonderful country by continuing our immigration programme. And let us avoid the traps of other nations; let us continue to bring to this country only such migrants as can be readily integrated. It is a sound policy from Australia's point of view. I have no doubt that informed world opinion will understand and agree with our policy. 
Has the Minister for Labour and National Service noted that section of the statement of the Leader of the Opposition which was tabled in this House last Friday, in which he said: 
If members of the Caucus, for instance, were members of the Labor governments in Sweden, Switzerland, Israel or Singapore at the present time they would support conscription in the circumstances in which those countries find themselves. 
I ask: Does this represent a change in the policy of the Labor Party on conscription? In what way does it differ from Government policy? 
I call the Minister for Immigration. 
Yesterday in this House we heard Opposition speakers talk about the rights of conscientious objectors. They were not satisfied with the provisions of the National Service Act which gives exemption to genuine pacifists and to those who have a conscientious objection to fighting in all wars. They wanted and they asked for provision for exemption for those who refuse on ground of conscience to fighting against the Vietcong and North Vietnamese Communists in South Vietnam. I do not intend to argue the rights or the wrongs of the case put by the Opposition. I think its arguments were adequately disposed of yesterday. But I instance them here because I wish to point out the inconsistency of the Labor Party and the organisations on its side of politics. 
Tonight in the South Australian Parliament a censure motion will, I believe, have been moved against the South Australian Labor Government's Minister for Roads and Transport over departmental letters apparently signed by him threatening dismissal of government employees who refuse to join a union. 1 understand that in the past 3 weeks the Leader of the Opposition in South Australia,  Mr Steele  Hall, has twice produced letters to departmental heads to this effect. From Press reports I understand that the Acting Premier of South Australia,  Mr Corcoran  has said that  Mr Hall  was correct in his quotation from them. According to the Press Mt Hall said that a departmental letter threatened some Government employees with dismissal if they refused to join an appropriate union. But here lies the inconsistency and the insincerity of the Labor Party. What about those who, as a matter of conscience, are unable to join a union? Surely to be consistent the Labor Party must make an exception in the case of conscientious objectors to unionism. But as we see from the letters reportedly sent out by the Minister in the South Australian Labor Government, such is not the case Surely if exemption is to be granted to people who have a conscientious objection to fighting in a particular war, to be consistent we must agree to the proposition that anyone who has a conscientious objection to joining a union should also be exempt. On Monday a young lad from my electorate- 
Of course, honourable members opposite do not like hearing these sorts of things. On Monday a young lad from my electorate. Peter Stratford Hocking of 35 Laburnum Street. Blackburn, Victoria, who had gone to Wodonga to take a job with Lamson Paragon Printers, was sacked from that job because, due to pressure from the unions on that firm, the firm has adopted a closed shop policy against anyone who is not a union member. Peter Hocking had conscientious objection based on religious grounds against joining a union and believed that according to his interpretation the teaching of the scriptures would not allow him to do so. He signed a statutory declaration to this effect. As his father said in his letter to me: 
When approached by shop stewards, he explained that as a believer in the Lord Jesus and governed by the Word of God he had a conscience about joining the union and being party to its activities and outlook. 
Now, no matter what one thinks about this lad's religious beliefs- 
No matter what the honourable member for Sydney thinks about this lad's religious beliefs it is a fact that he had a genuine conscientious objection to joining a union, based on religious grounds. The boy's father spoke to the Assistant Secretary of the Printing and Kindred Industries Union and got nowhere. He then spoke to a  Mr Garrett,  the Manager of Lamson Paragon Printers and  Mr Garrett  said, and J quote from  Mr Hosking's  letter:  . . while Peter was performing his duties satisfactorily and they would be sorry to see him go, they felt they had to stand by their policy of closed shop' and would not alter their decision. 
The letter continues: 
Representation was then made to  Mr L.  Hills, solicitor, of Sydney who contacted  Mr Fogarty,  the Assistant Secretary of Labour and Industry, Victoria. Following moves between the Company and the Printing and Allied Trades Employers' Federation, a stay of one week was given Peter as it was found that the Country Printers Award covered the position and while embracing a preference to unionists clause carried the provision for application to the Industrial Registrar for a certificate of examption. This was lodged on 5th October 1970. 
But on Monday Peter Hocking lost his job for no other reason than his conscientious objection on religious grounds to joining a union. How hypocritical does it make the cries of the Opposition for the rights of conscientious objectors against particular laws when they raise no cry of protest for the rights of conscientious objectors to joining a union. Peter Hocking's father has asked me to ask the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden)  to see whether a provision can be incorporated in the Graphic Arts Award to this effect: 
That a person who is prevented from being a member of a union on the ground of conscientious beliefs be able to be engaged under the Award, and if already employed not to be dismissed, injured in his employment, or deterred in his position by reason of his circumstances relating to his conscience. 
I shall place this matter before the Minister as I have been requested to do. But this is not the only instance of this kind of thing. Several weeks ago in Tasmania there was a case of certain men in, I think, Burnie, who for certain reasons, wished not to join a union. The editorial in the Launceston 'Examiner' of 2nd October took this matter up and I will quote it because it is very typical of what people feel about the Labor Party in this matter. It states: 
The individual has rights, and in a world increasingly indifferent to liberty and individualism, a man's remaining rights must be respected. How this is to be achieved must remain one of the greatest challenges to democratic parliaments. But while it poses as the standard-bearer of conscience, the Labor Party must be consistent in ils attitude to compulsory unionism. 
I would like it to be known to this House that I believe a grave injustice has been done to this lad. I believe that Lamson Paragon Printers and the Printing and Kindred Industries Union  -  I know that members of the Opposition who are interjecting do not like this,  Mr Deputy Speaker  - stand indicted for their actions. If  Mr Virgo,  the South Australian Labor Government's Minister of Roads and Transport, has his way it looks as though we will have many more cases similar to that of Peter Hocking. 
When we consider the defence of Australia we cannot do this in isolation from world affairs. We cannot do it without taking into account what is occurring to our north in Asia and to our west in the Indian Ocean and Africa. Recently there have been 2 significant announcements - announcements which I believe we must take into account when we are assessing the future defence needs of this country. One has been the recognition by Canada of the Peking Government and the presumption that Canada will support the admission of Communist China to the United Nations. One may well ask why Australia should not recognise mainland China. Here we have a nation of 700 million people which is almost one-fifth of the world's population. After all, Australia gives de facto recognition to mainland China when we trade with her. One may well ask why should we not trade with China? After all, we trade with Russia and we recognise that country. Yet Russia has been just as guilty, probably more so, of offending against the peace and security of other nations than even Peking. We recognise and trade with countries such as Hungary and Czechoslovakia which have had unrepresentative and undemocratic governments forced on them by Russian military might. So why then should we not recognise Communist China? We trade with that country for the same reason that it trades with us - because trade helps our balance of payments and hence the standard of living of our people. 
The reason why we cannot recognise mainland China or support its admission to the United Nations is not the fault of Australia or the Western democracies. It is the price that mainland China demands for condescending to join the United Nations - a price that I would think no principled nation should be prepared to pay. Mainland China's price of recognition is twofold. Firstly, mainland China requires that Taiwan, a nation of 14 million people - a population bigger than that of Australia - should be kicked out, holus bolus, from the United Nations. Secondly, Communist China requires the acceptance of the sovereignty of mainland China over the 14 million free Chinese in Taiwan. By its conditions, Communist China precludes its own admission to the United Nations. The recognition by Canada may be a great victory for the Chinese Communists, but the fact that Canada has seen fit to take note - I think this was th? wording - of Communist China's claim to sovereignty over Taiwan despite the wishes of the people of that country and simultaneously to break off diplomatic relations with the free Chinese Government of Taiwan shows, I believe, the Canadian Governlent of  Mr Pierre  Trudeau to be one of expediency rather than one of principle. 
But as we have seen with the North Vietnamese in Paris, Asian Communists are patient people; they have only to wait until their friends within the Western democracies so manipulate public opinion that the democracies' resistance crumbles from within. So Communist China probably feels that time is on her side. She has only to wait until the resistance of the Western democracies to her entry to the United Nations collapses from within and then she wilt stroll into the world body on her own terms. Hanoi has the same approach. It has only to remain stubborn at the Paris Peace talks and allow its friends in Australia and America to go ahead with their moratoriums to undermine the resistance of the Western democracies to its aggression in Indo-China. In the end, they believe, they will achieve what they want. 
The other significant announcement affecting Australia's defence policy was that of  President  Nixon who stated that a further 40,000 American troops will be withdrawn from Vietnam. This will leave 284,000 American troops in South Vietnam, which is 276,000 more than Australia has in that country at this time. But even Australia with only 8,000 troops in Vietnam will be withdrawing 1 battalion in the next few weeks. If these withdrawals were a military decision I have no doubt that no-one would question them. But only last week on the front page of the 'Australian' newspaper there appeared an attack on the pull-out of Australian troops. I would like to quote from this newspaper report which is headed 'Australian Officers Attack Troops Pull-out'. The article states: 
The commander of the 5,300-strong Australian task force in Vietnam said today the life of his men would be much tougher after the withdrawal soon of a third of his infantry. 
Withdrawal will merely mean that we will have to work very much harder than al the moment, which is already pretty hard', Brigadier William Henderson said at his headquarters at Nui Dat, 45 miles south east of Saigon. 

 His appraisal coincided with careful implications at Nui Dat that withdrawal had been dictated more by internal Austraiian political considerations than by military feasibility. 
The brigadier said the  pullout  would also mean operational changes. 'Tactical dispositions will have to be changed,' he said, and he hinted the Task Force might not be as effective as before. lt would be up to Vietnamese headquarters,' he said, 'to decide whether  1  have enough troops to maintain pressure. 
Officers here said that if all the Task Force were withdrawn now, the province would revert to the Vietcong, because local militia forces were not yet ready io take over. 
Yet it is the complete withdrawal of the Task Force that the Opposition is demanding. The 1.966 Federal elections were fought on the issue of Australian participation in Vietnam. The Australian people returned this Government with the biggest majority in the history of this Parliament. In 1969 Australia's participation was not the only issue, but it was a major issue, and again the Government was returned with a good majority. It was then that we found the Australian left hijacking the Government out of the Parliament and into the streets. We had the May Moratorium in Melbourne, which was variously reported to have been attended by between 30.000 and 70,000 unionists, students and others, and the September Moratorium, which had dwindled to an estimated 20,000, a relatively small number when one considers that Melbourne has a population of over 2 million people. I instance these matters because I believe they show the attempts which are being made to take the decisions regarding the defence of this country out of the hands of the duly elected Government. 
Last week in this very chamber the British Commonwealth Parliamentary Conference was held. The areas to our north and west came in for discussion, and varying shades of political opinion were present. Several delegates, including a Communist delegate from Ceylon, attacked what Australia and America are doing to protect the South Vietnamese from Communist aggression. We were told: 'You must not interfere in the internal affairs of another nation.' 
1 am glad to hear an honourable member opposite say 'Hear, hear', because it was interesting the next day to hear the same delegates about face and call for armed intervention in the internal affairs of Rhodesia. It was suggested that Britain should send in troops to overthrow the Rhodesian Government by force. They demanded that sanctions against the Rhodesian people should be increased. I pointed out - logically,  I  thought - that if it is wrong to interfere in the internal affairs of Vietnam, then it must ipso facto be wrong to interfere in the internal affairs of Rhodesia. I also pointed out that if it is right to recognise Russia and China on the basis that you cannot deny that they exist, then by the same premise you must also recognise Rhodesia because you cannot deny that it exists. If you place sanctions on Rhodesia because you do not like its policies, surely then to be consistent you should place sanctions on Russia or mainland China when you dislike their policies, or else you do it to  none  of them. 
The lesson I learned from attending the British Commonwealth Parliamentary Conference was this - and I say it with deep regret: There ate some nations that will see only what they want to see in international affairs. They can argue one way one day when it suits their purpose, and then in another situation do a complete somersault and argue the exact opposite. This has also become apparent at the United Nations which, after a tarnished 25 years, has sadly deteriorated into nothing more than a forum for nations to peddle their own propaganda. 
The only arguments that some nations will accept are those which are made from a position of strength. This Government believes that Australia should have a strong defence policy, and we make no apology for it. We believe that matters affecting the defence of this country should be made by the duly elected Government with the guidance of its defence experts, and not by mobs of wharfies and students  demonstrating in the streets. As long as we remain the Government of Australia the defence of this country will not be allowed to fall into such hands. 
Has the Minister for Externa] Affairs knowledge of a reported statement by the honourable member for Lalor, made last Sunday, that Government Ministers, namely himself and the Minister for Social Services, have given support to the Croatian Revolutionary Brotherhood, an organisation which has been blamed for the bombing of the Yugoslav Consulate in Victoria? Is there any truth in the allegation made by the honourable member for Lalor? 
Is the Prime Minister aware of a report tabled this week at the National Congress of the Returned Servicemen's League by Air Vice-Marshal F. M.  Bladin,  the  Chairman  of the Defence Subcommittee of that body which stated that internal protest movements in Australia and America have prolonged the Vietnam war causing unnecessary death and suffering and that these protest movements have in fact weakened the free world defence structure in South East Asia? Will the Prime Minister state to the House, as requested at the Congress, that the Government will tolerate dissent only while it stays within the law and does not infringe the rights of the majority of the population? 
I address my question to the Minister for Social Services. During recent months has he, as Minister for Social Services, received any direct representations from the Leader of the Opposition regarding the pension rate? 
One cannot help but have the greatest admiration for a migrant family who uproot themselves from the country of their birth and travel halfway around the world in search of a new and better life. Some years ago 1 stood on the wharf at Portree in the Isle of Skye and thought of how, some 100 years before, my grandmother who was only a girl at the time set sail to come to Australia. In those days the voyage took 6 months. It took a lot of determination and courage to make such a voyage. . I believe that it is due to the characteristics of people such as these that Australia is the nation which it is today. It is far less difficult for a British migrant to be assimilated into the Australian way of life than it is for a non-British migrant. Our cultures are the same. Many of our laws are the same. Most important of all, we speak the same language. 
There is no problem of communication. But how much more difficult it is for the Greek, the Yugoslav, the Italian and people of other nationalities who, with their various differing backgrounds, find themselves unable to speak the language of the new country of their choice. Three sections of the migrant family are affected by this communication barrier: The breadwinner, the housewife and the children. The breadwinner, who is immediately thrown out into the work force, soon picks up a smattering of English. He, of necessity, is probably the first in the family to understand and speak the English language. The problem of the housewife is more difficult. She is at home all day, running the household and has less need to learn English quickly. Then, of course, there are the children who at school, through mixing with Australian kiddies, have a much better chance of picking up English than their mother has. 
The unfortunate thing is that when the family comes home to the mother at night probably they all take the easy course of conversing in their own tongue. The influx into schools of migrant children with a language disability in English has created great problems not only for the children but also for the schools. Although these children will gradually pick up meaningful words and phrases they are at a grave disadvantage in following normal lessons given in English. Not only do we have a duty and a responsibility to the people whom we have brought to Australia but also it is in our own interests that these people be assimilated and integrated as early as possible. The Bill before the House tackles this problem. It provides for an adult programme, a child education programme and an intensive course programme. 
The course in assimilation starts with pre-embarkation instruction. It gives instruction which is continued during the voyage. After arrival in Australia a further course is made available. During the recess last year the Government members immigration committee flew to Perth and joined the migrant vessel 'Australis' on its trip to Melbourne. We sat in on a number of classes whilst on board. We were most impressed not only with the type of instruction given but also with the interest of the migrants in the lessons. Approximately 50 per cent of migrants still come to Australia by sea, and the 3 weeks sea voyage is a wonderful opportunity for the 40,000 non-English speaking migrants who arrive here annually by this means to receive tuition in English and the Australian way of life. It provides a useful link between the pre-embarkation instruction and the courses available in Australia. 
On arrival in Melbourne the committee visited the new Enterprise Hostel in Victoria. At this hostel special classes have been set up to prepare non-English speaking migrant children of primary and secondary school age to enter Australian schools. There are also day and evening classes available for adults. Both the State and independent schools have to cope with the problem of educating migrant children. I am pleased that the Bill provides assistance for both types of school. The assistance to be given in both teacher training and capital equipment such as language laboratories should help greatly in the education and assimilation of migrant children. Last night in this House the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  announced what cuts would be made in Government expenditure as part of the fight against inflation. Last year Australia absorbed about 185,000 migrants. I was sorry to hear the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Lynch)  announce at question time today that our migrant intake this year will be cut back to about 170,000. I understand that the Department of Immigration aims to save S2.6m in salaries, administration expenses, capital works and services, and migrant embarkation costs. 
My colleague, the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay),  said earlier in this debate that we cannot turn migration on and off like a tap. I believe that it is a retrograde step in Australia's development to cut back our intake of migrants. I am pleased, however, to !earn that migrant education and welfare will not be restricted for financial reasons. Recently the Melbourne 'Herald' invited readers to send in letters to the editor on how the Government could save money. I would like to read to the House one of the letters which. I think, illustrates how ill-informed some members of the public are. The writer of this letter is a lady from Montmorency, which used to be in the electorate of Deakin but now is in the electorate of Diamond Valley. She said: 
Cut out all migration on assisted passages and all migrants must have a knowledge of English, cutting out time and money spent with special classes. All migrants to be naturalised after 10 years in Australia. 
Much money is spent bringing migrants out on cheap fares, more is spent teaching them and their children English, and a lot of them return home after making money. Migrants not becoming Australian citizens by or before .10 years to return to their own countries. 
From her letter one would be forgiven for assuming she would have benefited from some English lessons. 
I  was glad she went.  I  hope that the Government will not be influenced by this type of thinking. We have heard it from a number of quarters - from industry and manufacturers - that migrants are creating a strain on the economy and that the programme should be cut back.  1  believe that it is not in the long term interests of Australia that this should occur.In his policy speech before the  1969  election the Prime Minister announced the Government's intention to take the initiative in promoting and accepting responsibility for expanding the existing facilities for the instruction of adult migrants, to provide intensive full time English courses and to provide special courses in existing schools for migrant children. The Bill fulfils that promise. It will do a great deal to help migrants to become assimilated. It will do much for the migrant and for Australia. It is worthy of the support of all honourable members. The amendment moved by the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  means nothing. It is a criticism which serves no purpose at all. I cannot for the life of me see how the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  could have made the statement that the amendment adds to the Bill. I believe that it should be treated with the contempt it deserves and be rejected outright. 
 I understand that this debate on censorship is the first that has taken place in this chamber for over 30 years and I commend the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  for the realistic approach which he has taken to this problem. I find myself in agreement with the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  in the remarks which he made concerning the minister and the way in which the Minister has tackled his portfolio. Before the present Minister took over his portfolio we were able to read in the Press of the banning of various publications. In the past, we, as members of Parliament had no way of knowing whether the banning of a certain book or the censoring of a certain film was justified. The present Minister, as the honourable member for Hindmarsh so rightly pointed out, has changed all of this. He has brought the whole question of censorship out into the light of day. He has taken the secrecy out of censorship. I think all honourable members would agree that although it may be considered necessary in wartime, political censorship or censorship of news is not desirable. This is not questioned. Censorship, however, which is exercised on a moral basis is a different matter. 
I do not think many of us realised how bad or how degrading some printed matter or some films were until this was revealed to honourable members by the Minister. This he did by showing to a closed audience of members, Pressmen and the clergy, various cuts which had been made from imported films. He has also made available a number of banned books and publications for the perusal of members. The Minister has stated that fundamentally he believes that censorship is a bad thing but that he also believes that at this stage an overwhelming majority of Australians believe it is necessary. 1 have read some of the books that the Minister had in his office. Like the honourable member for Hindmarsh I find it difficult to know why some of these books were banned. I was not particularly impressed with 'Portnoy's Complaint'. I was not too sure whether it should be banned. I thought that one section of .//.....  Breckenbridge' was completely disgusting. Another book, 'The Naked Lunch' gave one the impression that it could have been written only by someone who was probably under the influence of drugs. It was quite disjointed, repulsive and ugly. Another book 'My Secret Life' was written back in the 1880s, or some such time, during the Victorian days. This books deals with the sex life of an anonymous gentleman - he did not put his name to the book - starting with his first sexual experience and ending up with his last. I do hot think anyone who has read such publications as "The Naked Lunch' or 'My Secret Life' would seriously suggest that they should be openly on sale on the bookstalls for all and sundry, including children, to buy. 
I do not believe that any thinking person who saw the cut excerpts of the Swedish film 'Like Night and Day' would want to see them screened for general exhibition. A case can no doubt be made for not banning a book or a film, if in fact it has considerably literary or artistic merit. It is to the Minister's credit that the list of banned books has dropped from some 136 to about 80. But I do not believe that anyone can make a case for the admission of erotic coloured magazines, which are coming into this country by devious means, depicting the sex act, often in its most depraved forms, sometimes taking place between people of the opposite sex, sometimes between people of the same sex and sometimes of all of them together. These publications are sold simply to make profits for the publisher and to erotically arouse the reader. One can only guess the consequences for the reader and those with whom he comes in contact. I believe that most Australians would agree that a line must be drawn. The essential thing in dealing with censorship is to know where that line should be drawn. 
Of course, it can be argued that if a member of the community objects to certain words, actions or sights then he can, as the honourable member for Hindmarsh has said, censor them himself by avoiding them. No-one is forced to see, hear or do anything he does not wish to do. But it is also true, as the Minister pointed out in his statement, that if a immunity believes that the circulation of certain material is objectionable to itself as a community, it has the right, through its democratically elected government to protect itself. In Victoria several of the actors in the stage production 'Boys in the Band' were fined because a certain 4-letter word was used. I attended the show with my wife and in the sense in which it was used I did not find the word personally offensive. But then, I suppose, like the honourable member for Hindmarsh who has been a shearer, I have been in the Army and I have heard it many times before. But others might have had a completely different reaction. I do not believe that the show would have suffered had that word been deleted or replaced by another word. 
I know of some people who were given the record of 'Hair' as a present the Christmas before last. They liked the music which they played a number of times. However, they were quite surprised to hear their 8-year old daughter singing the words of a certain song called 'Sodomy'. I suppose the little girl did not know what it meant so it did not matter very much. No doubt the parents could have been quite embarrassed if their daughter had sung the song in front of some dear old ladies. I suppose it could be argued that these words also appear in the dictionary or in medical journals and therefore they should be used quite freely." I personally thought that the numbers from the show 'Hair' were quite good. I went to see the show in Sydney to see whether it was anything or everything that had been said about it. I was quite unmoved by the nude scene, which lasted for only a minute anyway. With the coloured lights flickering, I do' not think anybody could have been depraved by it. But I did find particularly objectionable the movements of particular simulated acts of sex and sodomy. I do not think that it is necessary to portray this type of thing on the stage. I think it would be most embarrassing for a young chap perhaps taking his girl friend out for the first time to be faced with this sort of thing. I just do not think it is necessary. 
I heard someone say recently that the quickest way to fill a theatre these days is for the actors and actresses to take off their clothes. That might well be so. We are told that these are the days of the permissive society. We are told that people should be free to do what they like, provided that they do not interfere with the rights of other individuals. But I do believe that there is a difference between freedom on the one hand and licence on the other hand. I believe we must always be watchful that the moral standards of the community are not whittled away little by little until we reach the stage which Sweden has reached today. I would not like to see Australia reach that stage. I spoke recently to a former Swedish Cabinet Minister who was visiting Australia. I was informed by him that, contrary to the propaganda put out from some sources in that country, rape and similar sexual offences are still as prevalent in that country as they ever were. 
If honourable members look at today's Melbourne 'Herald' they will find it pretty difficult to pick out an advertisement for a show that does not contain some reference to sex. I think that I counted about 12 shows out of 18 which were displayed in this way. Undoubtedly, these shows have been censored and any offensive parts cut out, but it must mean that there are some people today who do look for this sort of entertainment; otherwise, it would not be put on in the various theatres. 
I believe that the Minister has tackled the problem of censorship in a realistic and competent manner. I am sure that the introduction in Australia of the R certificate for films is a sound one. As the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  said, difficulties will probably be experienced by the various State authorities in policing it. With members of the community holding such valid and diverse opinions it is obvious the Minister will never please everybody, and I suppose that is one of the things we must expect in a democracy. We as members of Parliament and I believe the community generally have a clearer understanding of what is involved in the problem of censorship since the Minister assumed this responsibility, and even since this debate started tonight. I think the ultimate responsibility in regard to censorship will fall back on us as ordinary members of the community and as parents. 
I address a question to the Minister for Education and Science. Is it correct that 120 honorary physicians and surgeons at the Royal Melbourne Hospital and St Vincent's Hospital Melbourne have threatened to refuse to instruct medical students from next Tuesday unless they receive payment for their services? I ask the Minister: How many teaching hospitals are there in Australia? In. view of the present curbs on Government expenditure, what would be the cost to the taxpayer of a special grant to the Australian Universities Commission to meet these salaries? 
I address my question to the Minister for Social Services. During recent months has he, as Minister for Social Services, received any direct representations from the Leader of the Opposition regarding the pension rate? 
This morning on page 1 of the Sydney 'Daily Telegraph' there was a statement that a confidential report had been made, a,t the request of the Department of the Interior, by a well known firm of consultants, P. G. Pak-Poy and Associates, on the use of Commonwealth cars. Today's edition of the 'Bulletin' carried a similar story and stated that the report had been circulating in several departments since well before Christmas. It said that the politicians had not acted upon it. As an ordinary member of Parliament I have no knowledge of this report other than what I read in the newspapers. It has not been tabled in this House. But I do hope that by raising this matter tonight I may precipitate some action which will lead to the eradication of any abuses which may exist. 
It is a common impression among the public in general - and this has in some cases been engendered by sections of the Press - that every time they see a Commonwealth car it is some politician or his family going for a joy ride at the taxpayers' expense. Nothing could be further from the truth. I cannot speak for the Ministers; they are quite capable of doing that themselves. They work long hours and travel thousands of miles each week in the course of their duties. No-one can legitimately object to their use of a car. I would like it to be known to the public, however, that a backbench member of Parliament has a very limited and strictly controlled use of a Commonwealth car. We, as back benchers, are entitled to a car to take us from our home to the airport at the beginning of the week when Parliament is sitting and to return from the airport to our home at the end of the week. Several members often are required to share one car. In Canberra we are met at the airport and travel, usually two or three to a car, to Parliament House and at the end of the week we are driven back, two or three to  a  car, to the airport. Apart from parliamentary committee work, that is the sole entitlement of a private back bench member of Parliament to a Commonwealth car. 
If a member finds it necessary to come to Canberra on electoral business when the House is not sitting, he must hire a taxi at his own expense to and from the airport in his home State. If it is necessary to return to his electorate on electoral business during the week when Parliament is sitting, once again he must hire a car to and from the airport. I have found it necessary to do this on a number of accasions and it costs me $10 each time for the taxi fares. As the member of Parliament stands there hailing a taxi he is conscious of Commonwealth cars driving off with Service personnel, public servants - many of them young girls - and others. 
According to the 'Bulletin', 80 per cent of passengers carried in Commonwealth cars are Third and Fourth Division public servants. This would not surprise me. The Daily Telegraph claims that the 80 per cent is made up of clerks, secretaries, typists and messengers. During the last Parliament I was coming out of the old Federal members rooms in Little Bourke Street, Melbourne, to go to the Commonwealth Centre in Spring Street when a Commonwealth car drove up with an office boy with a letter to be delivered to a member or some other person. Why the boy could not have taken a tram I do not know, lt would probably have been quicker and certainly cheaper. However, the boy was quite decent; he gave me permission to ride back to the Commonwealth Centre with him. During the last session of Parliament a young female secretary who works in this House is reported to have stated to the Press that she phones the transport base before leaving work the night before and books a Commonwealth car to pick her up in the morning. Last week when I was being driven home from the airport in a Commonwealth car at about 5.30 p.m. a call came over the radio to pick up a certain public servant from an address in St Kilda Road and to drive him to the Melbourne Club. I was told several years ago - I admit that I cannot account for the authenticity of this statement - that a certain department gave time off to a female staff member to attend lectures at the University of Melbourne. As she had to travel some distance and as the department did not want her to be awa.y too long, according to my informant, she was given the use of a Commonwealth car twice a week. 
It is interesting to listen to the various drivers on the use of Commonwealth cars by some public servants. But because most are frightened they may lose their job if they talk too much it is difficult to get specific instances. It is when we realise how a member of Parliament is forced to hire a taxi so he can- carry out functions which are part of his parliamentary duties and then see the apparent abuse by public servants of Commonwealth cars that the injustice really hits home. 1 raised" this matter in the House during the Estimates debate last session, and to be sure that the then Minister for the  Interior was aware of the situation I sent to him a copy of my speech, underlined in the key parts. I received a polite but firm letter in reply from him saying that my views would be given consideration when  the matter of Commonwealth cars next came up. But nothing has been done to correct the anomalies. 
I have raised this matter 'tonight for two reasons: Firstly, I want to make it clear to the public at large that ho abuse of the use of Commonwealth cars occurs on I he part of private members of Parliament; it would not be tolerated- by this Government. Secondly, if abuses are occurring, let us bring them out into the light of day and do something about them.-, I do not want to spark off a witch hunt. I realise the difficulties the Government experiences in policing the use of Commonwealth cars. I am told that for the financial year 1969-70 Commonwealth cars; taxis- and hire cars cost the Government more' than $ I m. This Government has pledged ' itself to effect economies. If it is good" enough for the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  to drive himself to his office in. Parliament House on weekends to save overtime being paid to a Commonwealth driver, it is time for the Public Service to take a look at its use of Commonwealth cars. 
If the reports in today's Press are true and the Government has caused an inquiry to be set up, I congratulate it; but let us hear about it. I believe that if this report points to abuse of the system by public servants something should bc. done about it urgently. If this report exists, I believe we as members of Parliament should know of its contents. I strongly urge the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  - I know that he is only new to the portfolio - to table this report in Parliament without delay so that the truth may be known to all. 
Is the Minister for Social Services preparing any major changes in the social services structure for eventual submission to Cabinet? If so, has he received any help and advice regarding this matter from either the Government Members Social Services Committee or the Opposition Members Social Services Committee? 
I always endeavour to be present in the House when the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  is speaking. After all, he is the Opposition's shadow Minister for Social Services. If the Labor Party ever became the Government of this country be would become the Minister for Social Services. Therefore what he says is important. What he says now in this House is what we must expect to occur if - my colleague near me has said: 'Heaven forbid' - Labor occupies the Treasury bench. 
The honourable member for Oxley is, as we all know, an intelligent and hard-working member of Parliament. As one trained in economic theory, honourable members would be justified in expecting from him a real contribution in this debate. I am afraid he has let us down rather badly tonight. Outside this chamber I find him a very personable young man. He is affable and friendly and one cannot help liking him. But when he rises to speak in this chamber his personality undergoes a change. For some unknown reason he takes on a Jekyll and Hyde personality.  His  face becomes pale and drawn, his eyes take on a hungry look, his voice becomes rather staccato and unfortunately he tends to become sarcastic. He put on this type of performance in this chamber last night while the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  was making his second reading speech. This was very disappointing to those who like him. 
Supported by his colleagues, he interjected, he moved frivolous points of order, he argued with you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  he capriciously moved dissent from your ruling and then just as capriciously withdrew his motion.  His  continual interruptions went on ad infinitum until the Minister's time had expired. For those of us who wished to hear the Minister's speech the honourable member's activities were frustrating, to say the least. However the Minister, as we all  know,  is a hardened old character and as usual he carried the day. There has never been, I submit,  Sir, a  Minister with more understanding of the problems of pensioners than the present Minister, or a Minister more desirous of improving their lot. As vice  chairman  of the Government Members Social Services Committee I have the honour of working closely with him. I know his thinking on these matters and I am proud to be associated with him. 
T would have thought that the honourable member for Oxley and all other members of the Opposition would have been keen to give this Bill a speedy passage because it is aimed at alleviating some of the problems that pensioners are facing. It is an urgent interim measure. Instead, the spokesman for the Opposition moved an amendment containing 6 clauses. This tends only to widen the debate and to take away from the real issue which is the provision of interim relief to pensioners until the next Budget. I will not bother dealing wilh the first  4  clauses of the amendment because they are exactly the same as those which the honourable member moved in the Budget debate last September. The House defeated them and showed him. and the Opposition, what it thought of them. The fifth clause of this amendment states: 
Pension payments should be a proportion of average weekly earnings adjusted annually . . . 
The Minister answered this point adequately last night in his second reading speech. He pointed out that the current inflation is duc to the fact that average weekly earnings have outstripped productivity and that average weekly earnings are above award rates. The Minister supplied a graph to illustrate this point. I know that it upset honourable, members opposite because of the way they performed. However, despite all the interjections, the Minister answered this point very well and I will not waste further lime on it. The sixth clause of the amendment states: 
The subject of social services should be referred to a select committee of this House. 
All honourable members know that last night the Minister said in his speech that the whole matter of social services is the subject of a Cabinet inquiry. I was disappointed - I am sure the Minister was disappointed - that the Government decided, when considering the last Budget, that because of the state of the economy and because of the money spent on the new health scheme, it could increase pensions by only 50c. Although this offset the effects on pensioners of recent price rises due to inflationary pressures, it did not continue the- great strides forward to which we had become accustomed under this Government. Most honourable members are aware of the Government's achievements in the field of social services. 
It would be pointless to compare, in money terms, the position of the pensioner at the time of the last Labor Government with his position today. It is so long since we have had a Labor Government, and money values have altered greatly. The Australian people have refused for the past  22  years to trust the Labor Party with the running of this country, and I believe rightly so. But we can make a comparison by converting monetary figures into real value, that is, by adjusting the monetary pension to what it will buy. This, of course, is done by comparing the real value of the pension calculated from the cost of living index in  1949,  the last year of a Labor Government and the cost of living index today. It is interesting to turn back the pages of Hansard to the last time a Labor Government presented a Budget in this House. The right honourable J. B. Chifley was then the Prime Minister and Treasurer of this country. Chifley's Budget of  1949  did not increase pensions in any way. He told the Parliament: 
The Australian Labor Party, and particularly myself, would have liked to have seen several measures introduced in this country, including a scheme of national superannuation. I think it will be possible in the days to come to give consideration to such a measure. I stress, however, that it could not be financed out of present taxes. 

 Mr Chifley went on:  tt is no use attempting to fool the people with promises. These things can only be done by the imposition of additional taxes. 
I remind the honourable member for Oxley to heed those words of that former Labor leader. Whatever else honourable members might think about  Mr Chifley  and his policies.  Mr Chifley  was nonetheless a responsible Treasurer. Unlike some members of the Opposition, he knew that governments have no money of their own; that they cannot pluck money out of the air. The only money they can spend is what they collect from the people, and this they distribute throughout the various sectors of need. If taxation is to remain static, one sector can get more only if another sector gets less. If one sector is to get more and the other sectors are to remain static, the taxpayer must be asked to pay more taxation. 
It is easy for a party in opposition to demand more money for this sector today, more money for another sector tomorrow, and yet more again for another sector the day after. On the surface it makes their party very popular with the various pressure groups whose cause it espouses. But unlike the Government, the Opposition is not called upon to fulfil those promises. It is easy in such circumstances to make rash and illogical statements. But a responsible Opposition should be able to produce a p:an as  10  how its promises are to be financed. The honourable member for Oxley admitted tonight that some of the plans he was putting forward had not been accepted by the Opposition. In order to prove their sincerity members of the Opposition should show what other sectors of the economy are to suffer to supply the vast funds which would be required to satisfy their demands. Are they suggesting that we should cut down on health services, national development, defence, housing or aid to underdeveloped countries? They should tell us what they suggest. They cannot with any credibility claim to raise the money by increased taxation, because the Labor Party went to the people at the last election with a policy to reduce taxation. So how does it aim to obtain the money that would be required? I think the House is entitled to an answer to that question. 1 mentioned earlier that to get a real comparison of the true policy of the Labor Party with that of the Government we must compare not the face value of the pension offered by a Labor government with that offered by the present Government but its real value, that is, what it will buy. The Chifley Labor Government in 1949 paid the single pensioner a measly sum of S4.25 a week. Adjusted to today's values, this would amount to S 1.0.33 a week. This Bill will give to the single pensioner SI 6 a week, and with fringe benefits which have been introduced by this Government it will amount to much more. So much for what the Labor Party says in Opposition and what it does when in government. It is interesting to read the Budget Speech made by  Mr Chifley  in 1949. He said: 
A man and his wife who are both pensioners may each receive an income and still retain their rights to pensions. Including income from other sources they may receive 7.5s. a week between them. 
In today's currency, that is S14.50 a week and. adjusted to the present value of money, it amounts to about $35 a week. 
So $35 a week at today's values was the ceiling that  Mr Chifley  thought was sufficient for a pensioner couple to live in comfort. But these are not the views of the present Government. Under the present tapered means test introduced in 1969, and which I believe was one of the greatest strides forward in social services that this country has seen - I pay tribute to the Minister for Social Services for being the bruin behind this - a married couple may have an income and part pension amounting to $74 a week, whereas  Mr Chifley  would have regarded $35 a week as sufficient. The Government figure is in real terms more than double the figure set by  Mr Chifley.  Likewise, a single pensioner can have an income,' plus part pension, of $42 a week before the pension cuts out. With various fringe benefits, most of these people would not be too badly off. 
A few weeks ago my colleague the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Reid)  said that what pensioners, needed as much as money was love, and I think he had a point there. Many children of pensioners, despite the fact that their parents have kept them and looked after them for years when they were children, tend to neglect their parents when they become old. They forget about them and expect the rest of the taxpayers to be financially responsible for them. It is not only the taxpayers' responsibility to look after pensioners, the children of those pensioners should also accept some responsibility for .their parents. Let us have a look at the fringe benefits, because they are, as 1 have said, a valuable adjunct to the pension. The pensioner receives free doctor and specialist services, reduced fares on city, country and interstate transport, free treatment in public hospitals and free pharmaceutical benefits. It is estimated that the free medical benefits to pensioners are worth approximately $3 a week on top of the pension of $16. In addition pensioners enjoy television licence concessions, home nursing subsidies, nursing home benefits, telephone rental concessions and a rental subsidy of $2 a week where applicable. When these fringe benefits are added to the straight out grant of $16 it will be seen that the true value of today's pension is probably nearer $25 a week for a single person. I am not saying for a moment that I would nol like it to be higher. I believe most of us would. 
However some pensioners who live with their children or who own their own homes are not too badly off on this amount. 1 remember a few years ago, when I was in the Jaycees, a group of us cutting firewood, loading it into utilities and delivering it to pensioners. I remember vividly driving up to a big home in the electorate of Wills where a man was cleaning a Mercedes Benz in the drive. 1 said that I had a load of firewood for a  Mrs X,  a pensioner. He said: 'Oh, yes, that's Mum. Just stack it behind the garage.' He did not even help us unload it. Most of the cases that we called on, unfortunately, seemed to be people who did not really need that assistance. So it will be seen that pensioners in such a position are not as badly off as some others, and if we increase the pension across the board we may not be putting the available money to the best use, directing it to the place of greatest need. There are areas of particular need. There are pensioners, mainly the single ones without a family, living in rooms or rented premises who are in real need. It is these people for whom assistance is most urgent. Another group which I believe is harshly treated are those who, through thrift or membership of superannuation schemes, just fail to qualify for a pension. They are often worse off than the pensioner because they do not qualify for the fringe benefits. 
I do not believe that the piecemeal doling out of $1 here and $J there is the answer to the problems of the pensioner. The only adequate answer, as I see it, is a national superannuation scheme to which everyone contributes during his lifetime and from which everyone will benefit in his retirement. It is done in other countries and I believe it can be done here. It has been talked about by nearly every government since federation but it has never been enacted. I hope that in the Cabinet study of social services which is now proceeding the matter will be fully investigated and acted upon. I certainly would like to see the scheme introduced. It may take a few years to implement fully, but it must be implemented. 
In announcing the rise of 50c a week in pensions the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  pointed out that this is only an interim measure and that the Government hopes to resume in the near future its former pace in respect of expansion of pensions. I hope that we will see a further rise in pensions included in the Budget in August next. I believe we will. Members of the Opposition may argue amongst themselves as to whether increases in pensions represent 'feather bedding' of the pensioners, to use their own term, but we on this side of the chamber do not believe it is. The Government is charged with the responsibility of maintaining a sound economy. Irresponsible government financial policies would lead only down the road to disaster and depression. If this Government were irresponsible it would make handouts to all and sundry. It is easy for the Opposition to make irresponsible promises. It is another thing for the Government in office to fulfil them. We would all like to have seen larger increases in pensions. No-one would deny that. However, the Prime Minister has promised that the matter will be reviewed again in August. For the reasons I have stated I oppose the amendment moved by the Opposition and give my wholehearted support to the Minister and the Bill. 
 Order! There is far too much chatter in the chamber. 
Pensioners should keep in mind the comment he made, and I will refer particularly to it because he made it. He said that he would not feather bed the pensioners. The honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Griffiths)  - God bless him, he is one of the few surviving members of the old grass roots Labor Party - is a man upon whom one could rely and who would honestly fight for these underprivileged people. I respect the few surviving members of the old grass roots Labor Party. There are a few sitting opposite at the moment. Australians, wherever one goes, would not for a moment hesitate to accept the word of the honourable member for Shortland as against the word of the Leader of the Opposition. 
Honourable members opposite argue that this charge against the Leader of the 
Opposition was not laid until this year. I have it on fairly reliable information - and I hope to produce to the House rather clear evidence - that the charge was made in 1967, 1 year after the alleged criticism was made by the Leader of the Opposition who said to his Party: 'What is wrong with you fellows? Cannot these pensioners look after themselves? Why do we have to feather bed them?' Those were the words of the Leader of the Opposition. I am reliably informed and I repeat that this charge was originally laid not in 1971 but in 1967 by the honourable member to whom I referred, the honourable member for Shortland. I hope to be able to verify that statement in the near future. 
I have a particular complaint to put directly before the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth).  For years now - long before I entered this Parliament - I have appealed to the Government to give special consideration to pensioners living in remote areas. I would again plead with the Government not to write back and tell me that the matter is being considered. I would like to see a concerted investigation into the possibilities of giving consideration to people who have to endure all the penalties of living in remote areas and in country areas. I would like to mention the obvious fact that every other category of people living in such areas receives consideration such as a western parity, a northern parity or various kinds of allowances. Yet pensioners have to endure not only the financial burdens of living in remote areas but also the emotional burdens of living in remote areas. Take for example an elderly man or woman who has to seek specialist medical attention. It is not just a matter of calling a taxi and going to see the local doctor. They have to travel to the nearest provincial city or metropolis - Brisbane, perhaps, in the case of those people living in the area which 1 represent. They are faced firstly with the general worry that old people have of leaving their home, packing up, getting into a train and wondering who will be travelling with them. 
It is true that they get free travel. They probably get free medical attention when they arrive at the particular provincial city or metropolis, but they do not get free board. They are wondering what is happening back home. All in all, this is a great emotional penalty. The least they should get is some remuneration. I am a little tired of the argument that this cannot be done because of the constitutional requirement that the principle of one in all in should apply to any concession or monetary advantage that is made available to a section of the community. If this is the case then I say let us alter the Constitution; let us have a referendum so that special allowances can be made to pensioners who live in remote areas. Some of the galahs who are crowing on the other side of the House have occasionally appeared in western areas. They have come out to tell the people who live in country areas their own business. As I said on one occasion, I can only think of them as going through my area like a brumby with his tail on fire. 
Order! There is no substance in the point of order. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of 11 electors of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
that the United Nations General Assembly Resolution 2603 XXIVA (December 1969) declares that the Geneva Protocol of 1925, which Australia has ratified, prohibits the use in international armed conflict of any chemical agents of warfare - chemical substances whether gaseous, liquid or solid - employed for their direct toxic effects on man, animals or plants; 
that the World Health Organisation Report (January 1970) confirms the above definition of chemical agents of warfare; 
that the Australian Government does not accept this definition, but holds that the Geneva Protocol does not prevent the use in war of certain toxic chemical substances in the form of herbicides, defoliants and 'riotcontrol' agents. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray- 
that the Parliament take note of the consensus of international political, scientific and humanitarian opinion; and 
that Honourable Members urge upon the Government the desirability of revising its interpretation of the Geneva Protocol, and declaring that it regards all chemical substances employed for their toxic effects on man, animals or plants as being included in the prohibitions laid down by that Protocol. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I address a question to the Leader of the House. Bearing in mind that Bills tend to pile up towards the end of a session will the Leader of the House inform members of what steps the Government is taking to have Bills prepared early in the  session  for consideration by the Parliament? Will the Minister indicate to the House how many Bills are at present ready for presentation to the House? 
Is the Minister for Social Services able to inform the House when the new code covering Commonwealth employees compensation will come into operation? 
 Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I ask the Minister for the Interior whether it is a fact that the applicant for a hotel licence at Nhulunbuy on the Gove Peninsula has failed to comply with the terms laid down by the licensing court in the Northern Territory and that another applicant has submitted different proposals to be put before the court in about a week's time. In these circumstances, and because of the strong opposition of Aboriginal leaders in the neighbourhood to the granting of a hotel licence, will the Minister take steps to ensure that the hearing is postponed for a period of, say, 28 days to enable the whole matter to be reopened and for the submission of fresh evidence, as desired by the Aboriginal leaders? 
At a time of economic strain this Government has not hesitated to take effective measures to correct the inflationary trends which had become apparent in the economy. We have been presented with a responsible budget by a responsible Government. The approach of the Government to the affairs of this nation stands in marked contrast, I would submit, to the actions of the Labor Party and its friends and allies of the trade union movement, whose irresponsible and divisive actions have become increasingly apparent since  Mr Hawke  became  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. They reached a climax with the cancellation last week of the South African cricket tour. 
Before the South African rugby tour in July, a Gallup poll showed that 85 per cent of Australians felt the rugby tour should proceed and only 9 per cent that it should not. Because of the threat of violent demonstrations a similar Gallup poll showed that now 23 per cent of people questioned felt the cricket tour should be cancelled, but 63 per cent - or 2 out of 3 Australians - despite the threats of violence, still wanted the cricket tour to continue. Had the tour gone on it is obvious that the demonstrators were prepared to use violent means to prevent it. Many, including police and innocent spectators, may have been injured or even killed. All things considered, the cricket Board of Control undoubtedly made the only decision open to it but the Australian people have been held to ransom. It has been a sad day for democracy and a notable victory for the organisers of confrontation, and this unfortunately will prove to be only a prelude. It is only the end of the beginning of confrontation politics in this country. 
During July, while Labor members, together with unionists and left wing students, were protesting about the internal affairs of South Africa - the vast majority of them never having seen the situation there - T spent 3 weeks moving freely throughout that country. 1 would like to make it plain that I do not agree with the policy of apartheid as practised by the South African Government, particularly that section which is commonly known in that country as petty apartheid, nor would the policy of separate development be my answer to the problems facing the various races of South Africa. But unlike the Opposition I would not presume after only a 3-week visit to tell the South Africans how they should run their country. 
Problems are always created when differing races are thrown together by circumstances and the problem is not unique to South Africa. We are all aware of the position in Britain and America and this is the reason that previous Australian governments, including Labor governments, have maintained a restricted immigration policy. Of course, the present Hawke-Whitlam axis has changed Labor's policy in this regard and Australians may well have similar problems if a Labor government with an open door immigration policy ever comes to power. I must say in all fairness that I did not see one black or coloured South African who was underfed or who did not receive the best of medical treatment. They have their own universities and educational facilities and a massive rehousing scheme is in progress. 
Whilst in Cape Town I watched an intricate heart operation on a 35-year-old coloured South African and saw the treatment which black South African heart patients receive. It was equal to any that a white man would receive in Australia. Noone could ever accuse South Africans of being guilty of the crimes against humanity of which the Russians or the Communist Chinese have been guilty. Yet those who protest so strongly against anti-Communist South Africa were strangely silent when the Moscow Circus and the Russian Ballet visited this country early this year. One must have a  short  memory if one forgets what the Russians did in Hungary or Czechoslovakia, or the present persecution of the Jewish people, the Baptists and other minorities in the Soviet Union. One must have a short memory indeed if one forgets what Communist China did in Tibet or the suffering that Chinese weapons and supplies have caused the people of Laos, Cambodia and Vietnam. 
It is here that we see clearly illustrated the double standards practiced by the Labor Party. Whilst I was in South Africa the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  together with other Labor and union leaders, were in Communist China talking to Chou En-lai. I do not criticise them for this. As Churchill once said, it is 'better to jaw jaw than war war', and if we can talk to Communist China and Communist Russia in the hope that we can influence them to change their aggressive policies then so much the better. But at least the Labor Party could be consistent. At the same time as it advocates increasing dialogue and trade with Communist China, the Labor Party has called for a complete boycott of all trade, diplomatic, sporting and cultural relations with anti-Communist South Africa and Rhodesia. 
Surely if it is right to talk to Communist Russia and Communist China to change their policies - and I believe that it is - then surely it is right to talk to antiCommunist South Africa if we think it should change its views on apartheid. The Labor Party cannot have it both ways. Surely if it is right to play ping-pong against Communist China in the hope that the contact will make for better relations, then surely it is right to play rugby or cricket against antiCommunist South Africa in the hope that the contact will also make for better relations. But one gets used to these inconsistencies from the Labor Party. I suppose it cannot be avoided in a party which must put forward one policy for the electors and at the same time put forward a policy to satisfy its extreme left-wing supporters. 
But what  1  am most concerned with is the increasing threat to the civil liberties of the average Australian posed by the activities of the demonstrators and the unions. During the period I was in South Africa I received no mail from my family because the Australian Postal Workers Union refused to handle mail to South Africa. The  12  letters my wife wrote were delivered to my home after my return to Australia. Throughout the time I was away I had no idea of how my wife was coping with our young family. I resent very strongly the action of the Postal Union in using this sort of tactic and I wish to register my protest in this democratically elected Parliament.  1  believe that if the Australian public want to watch a football match or a cricket match they should be free to do so without threats of interruption or violence. 
The Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  has stated that the cost of police protection in Canberra for the  3-day  Springbok Rugby Union tour was  $43,700.  One can but guess at the total cost to the Australian taxpayer of maintaining law and order against the demonstrators. But the cost to the taxpayer does not stop at just ensuring that Australian sports lovers can watch a football match if they so please. Just recently the taxpayers were up for repainting the walls of the South African Embassy for the second time since the police guard was withdrawn last month. I have been told that guarding the South African Embassy has been costing the Australian taxpayers  $1,736  a week. How much the pensioners would like the money spent on controlling demonstrators to be applied to social services. Recently John Sorell wrote an article in the Melbourne Herald' which was headed: The shiver of fear hits embassy staff'. I shall read the first few paragraphs of this article which state: 
South African Embassy families are living in terror in Canberra. 
They are being harassed, abused and threatened by anti-apartheid student groups. 
It's been a month's long nightmare,' the embassy's information officer,  Mr John  Lotter told me. 'My wife, Betsie, has been nearly driven out of her mind.' 
They even rang up my 14-year-old daughter and told her she would be pack-raped', he said. 
Embassy officials have been followed, their car tyres let down, their house walls daubed with paint, their gardens uprooted. 
Truckloads of gravel and sand, wreaths, cement mixers. TV sets and filthy letters have been delivered to embassy, staff homes. 
Carloads of students drive past at night yelling abuse. 
These then axe the tactics of our so-called idealistic demonstrators. No wonder they are despised by the vast majority of Australians. It is only natural that if the average Australian wants to watch a football match and finds protestors physically trying to prevent him from doing so, violence may break out. I know that the Labor Party has made cooing noises dissociating itself from violence at demonstrations. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Sitting suspended from 5.57 to 8 p.m. 
What power does the Postmaster-General possess to take action against the establishment and operation of unlicensed and illegal broadcasting stations? 
Order! I think the honourable member is getting away from the substance of the Bill. The substance of the Bill is national service. There is no national service in the Navy. I think that the honourable member should come back to the terms of the Bill before the House. The honourable member has had  a  lot of leniency from the Chair. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully sheweth: 
That death from mass starvation and disease is occurring among Pakistan's refugees on a scale unprecedented in modern history. 
That, as part of the world community, the Australian Government has an immediate responsibility for concerted action. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Represenatives in Parliament assembled, should: 
Increase monetary aid for the refugees to at least five million dollars immediately, even if this entails reduced spending in other areas. 
Encourage and sponsor teams of volunteers with needed skills and medical supplies. 
Maintain all this aid for as long as the crisis persists. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever, pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Labour and National Service. Has the Minister seen a  reported statement by the Leader of. the Opposition that the Opposition is opposed to strikes on political issues? Is he aware of any previous statement by the Leader of the Opposition on this matter? Are honourable members correct in assuming- 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and is supplementary to the question asked by the honourable member for Holt. Has the fighting on the IndiaPakistan border in any way interfered with aid from Australia getting through to the Pakistani refugees? 
1 ask the Minister for Immigration: Is it a fact, as has been reported, that the Prime Minister of Fiji who, I understand, has complained that his luggage was inspected by Australian Customs officials during transit through Australia is required to obtain a visa to enter Australia whilst his European official is not? 
Until an hour or so ago I did not intend to speak in this debate. However, I was prompted to do so by an article which appeared on page 2 of this morning's issue of the 'Canberra Times' and which was written by  Mr Warwick  Bracken, who is the economics writer for that paper. The heading of the article was: 'Tariff abuse and consumer prices'. I would like to say something about this article because I think it is an over-simplified, or oversimple, article which tends to throw the whole idea of protective tariffs up as something evil and bad for Australia. 
I find myself in some agreement with the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  and the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  perhaps because we all were products of the University of Melbourne Commerce School and trained in the Keynesian theory of economics. I believe that the Australian protective tariff policy is a wise one. It is a policy aimed at the protection of economic and efficient industries within Australia. It prevents low price imports threatening Australian industry and the employment of the Australian worker. Of course, if the employment of the Australian worker and industry is threatened, so much is Australia a weaker nation. 
Australia is a developing country, and like all developing countries it must have some form of balanced protection policy. This does not mean that we should overprotect or that we should protect industries that are not viable. Arguments about protection and free trade have been going on in this country for a very long time - long before many of us were born and long before there was a Commonwealth of Australia. It is possible to make out a plausible case either way. We have the plausible article in favour of free trade that appeared in the 'Canberra Times' this morning. I would like to read some extracts from it because the article is not completely accurate. It says: 
So you paid $350 for a refrigerator recently and you think you got a bargain? You could have bought your refrigerator at least 596 cheaper if there had been no tariff on imported refrigerators. 
The article says: 
Perhaps it was not a refrigerator you bought but a car and it cost you $3,500. That is almost $1,100 more than you would have paid for an imported version of the same thing if there was not a 45 per cent tariff on imported cars. What costs you $3,500 cost an overseas car manufacturer something like $2,400 to make and freight to Australia. 
Or perhaps it was a tape recorder you bought and you paid $200 for it. Without import duty it would have cost y,ou $138 or so, because there is a general rate of protection of 45 per cent on imported tape recorders. 
The article continues: 
Without duty an imported washing machine costing $310 would cost $200; sheets and pillow cases would cost 35 per cent less than they do; shirts would cost at least 40 per cent less; pantyhose would cost about 40 per cent less (instead of paying $1 you would pay about 60c); the price of shoes would be about 30 per cent less; a top grade tennis racquet instead of costing $25 would cost about $15.60. . . . and a suit costing $48 would cost $30. 
The whole idea of the article is to say that if we did not have this ridiculous system of protection for Australian industries people would be able to buy things much more cheaply. But of course if we did not have protection we probably would not have many of the industries, and many of the Australian people would not be employed. It is all very well being able to buy things more cheaply, but if people are not employed they do not have the money to pay for them. I think that tariff policy cannot be a stop-go affair. It is important that industry be able to plan for a stable future. It is for this reason that the Australian Tariff Board recommends to the Government when protection should be extended to an industry and when it should be reduced or cease. If there were no such policy I think we would find that industry would not know where it was. 
As has been mentioned by previous speakers, in the instance of the shirts, a manufacturer from a cheap labour country could come here, copy a design, go away and land the finished article in this country far more cheaply than we can produce it ourselves. As a result, Australian workers would find themselves out of employment. It was particularly worrying to hear the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  say at a meeting in the Dandenong Town Hall on 16th February last that the Australian Labor Party would, if it became the Government, control industry by using tariffs and subsidies as sticks and carrots. To me it is a rather frightening thing that, if  Mr Whitlam  ever became Prime Minister of this country, he would use a tariff policy against industry to brow-beat it into what the particular government of the day thought industry should be doing. The Leader of the Opposition realised that, under the Constitution, the Commonwealth Government has no power of price control. He also realises that the Ausralian people, at a referendum, would not be prepared to give such a control to any Commonwealth government. Apparently, if I draw the right conclusions from his statement at Dandenong, he would use this sort of policy of tariffs as sticks and carrots to control industry. That is just getting around the socialisation platform of the Labor Party in another way. 
I know there have been disagreements in the debate on tariffs. These disagreements have been apparent on this side of the House and on the other side of the House. The Press has played this up to a large extent by publishing articles - I have copies of them here but I will not read them out because I do not think they are important - saying that there is something wrong; that the Government is divided because it does not always agree on tariffs, or that the Opposition is divided because it does not always agree on tariffs. But it is not a bad thing that Government supporters or members within an Opposition do not always agree completely with their colleagues. Surely this is healthy in a democracy. I feel that it is quite healthy that my colleague the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  is able to stand up within this Party and express views which are perhaps different from mine and different from the views of other honourable members. 
It is a pity that more people are not interested in the tariff policy of this country. There are not very many honourable members in this House at the moment. There are 2 pressmen sitting in the gallery. I wonder how many people are listening to the broadcast. I .wonder whether anywhere near as many are listening now to this debate on tariffs as were listening this morning to the debate when the Leader of the Opposition was being censured by his statements on draft dodging. That was an exciting debate for the listeners, but it probably was nowhere near as important to this country as a debate on tariffs. The subject of tariffs is confusing. I have just read a speech that the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  made in this House on 7th October. He said that he had developed quite a sense of confusion on tariffs. This is an understandable thing. I do no want to go on for very long because I know that a number of other honourable members wish to speak in this debate. I 'think that when we are protecting an industry we must be sure that we do not overprotect it and that we do not protect industries that are not Viable. We do not want to reach the position where by overprotection we make industry inefficient and so tend to price ourselves out of the market. 
I was fortunate enough to go with several businessmen to Japan in October. I saw that in Japan the employment position is such that they have had a 17 per cent rise in the cost of living in the past 12 months and they are now pricing themselves out of their own market. The week I was there, for the first time we were selling Australian vegetables in the Tokyo market more cheaply than they could be grown in Japan. While I was there I walked into a supermarket. I saw pantyhose produced by Holeproof in Melbourne selling in a supermarket in Tokyo. I saw frozen pastry from Herbert Adams in Melbourne, made not far from my electorate. It was being made Japan. I saw confectionery and other products seat from Australia. So in Japan they have reached the stage in a number of products where they have priced themselves out of their own market. Of course, we do not want a protection policy which would allow this to occur, but I think that we must realise that Australia is a great and a growing industrial nation. No longer do we ride on the sheep's back, as we have been told for so long. It is just as well that we do not, because over the last 12 months we would not have been riding very much; we would have been lying in the dust. 
Australia has a diversified economy. If agricultural products drop in price, no longer is this country crippled as it once would have been. I know that my friend the one of the Government's supporters for honourable member for Mallee  (Sir Winton Turnbull)  would perhaps not quite agree with me there, but I think he would agree that no longer are we so dependent on rural industries as we were perhaps 20 or 30 years ago. 
I hope that with a protection policy our industries will continue, to be able to produce, and to produce profitably, and keep employment high. This diversified economy we have has been due to the way industry has been built up by this policy of protection. Industry looks to tariff protection to give it an advantage over firms of foreign companies on the home market, and unions look to the protection of industry because it protects the employment of the Australian worker against the competition of cheap overseas labour. As I said before, no-one suggests that we should have overprotection or protection of industry which will never be viable, but do not let us go to the other extreme, as Warwick Bracken did in the 'Canberra Times' this morning when he suggested that protection is forcing prices up to such an extent in Australia that the situation becomes ludicrous, because if most of us are unemployed the price of an article does not matter; we still would not have the money to buy it. So let us realise that Australia has a diversified economy and that it has become an important industrial nation because of the policy of protection of Australian industries followed by successive, Australian government, and let us not change that policy. 
I was amazed to hear the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  say that the policy of the Labor Government in his home State, of South Australia would become a model for the education policy of any future Labor government of Australia. I thought that he would want to disown the South Australian Government's policy on education, because of the figures. The honourable member seemed to be confused about all the extra funds which were granted to the various States following the last Premiers Conference. He seemed to think that the S4.39m which was granted to South Australia and the S2.99m which was granted to Western Australia were purely for works and housing. I direct his attention to the speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  in which he announced these grants. He said: 
They will have  a  direct impact- 
He was talking about the extra funds which were given. (Quorum formed). It is a well known tactic of members of the Opposition when they are not getting the best of an argument to call for quorums to try to take away the time of honourable members of the Government side who are making their speeches. 
Before the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  spoke I would have thought that he could be nothing but full of praise for what has been achieved under the Aged Persons Homes Act. I can only think that he did not listen when the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  said that he hoped that critics would be constructive and not destructive, that they would be temperate rather than exaggerate and that they would direct their attention to the real interests of the old people. I believe that the Aged Persons Homes Act, which was introduced by this Government in 1954, is possibly the most humane Act that has been implemented by any government in the history of this country. As a result of this Act and with the cooperation of church and charitable organisations, there existed in Australia at 31st December 1971 accommodation for some 41,481 aged people which probably would not have existed had this Act not come into being. I understand that by the end of February the number of people who could be accommodated had increased to 42,600. lt has been estimated that each of these units will probably accommodate 12 people during its economic life. So we can say that these aged people's homes will accommodate during their lifetime about 500,000 people if no more are to be constructed after today, but of course more will be constructed. In my electorate, which now covers only 17 square miles since the redistribution, we have about 8 aged persons homes which house 463 aged persons in .self-contained units, 304 in hosteltype accommodation and 115 in nursing home accommodation, making accommodation for a total of 842 people in that small electorate alone. I have visited these aged persons homes on a number of occasions and I know the satisfaction and the happiness they have brought to the people who live in them. The cost to the Government of the aged persons homes scheme has been about $134m, and with the voluntary donations and the cooperation of church bodies homes have been built to the value I believe, of approximately $200m. I think this is a great achievement. 
But what did the honourable member for Oxley have to say? He criticised the principle in this scheme of voluntary participation and donations. It should be obvious to all members of this House that if it were not for the participation of these church and charitable organisations and the donations they have put into these buildings, the Government money would not go anywhere near as far as it does. The cost of building the same number of homes would be 50 per cent more to the taxpayer than it has been or else we would have 50 per cent fewer homes than we have today. When we are talking as the honourable member for Oxley does, we should talk responsibly about what has been achieved and should not just be out to gain cheap political advantage by endeavouring to rubbish the Government. 
We. as Liberals and as a Liberal and Country Party Government, believe that it is important to have the participation of the outside organisations, the church and charitable organisations, Lions clubs, Robary clubs, Apex clubs and so on. We do not believe in setting up a costly bureaucratic organisation which will run from Canberra aged person homes in various districts all around Australia. We believe that by having this scheme decentralised and allowing the churches and voluntary organisations to run it, it will run better than if some big bureaucratic organisation miles away in Canberra were controlling it. But the Australian Labor Party always wants bigger and more costly government organisations controlled by bureaucrats because this is part of its philosophy and ideas. As the Minister points out. under the present system the Government is not involved in the daily running costs and organisation of these homes, and this in itself is a big saving to the taxpayer. It hands control of these homes to organisations such as the churches, which have the interests and sympathy of the elderly people close at heart, much more so than some civil servant miles away in Canberra. However, the Commonwealth Government has laid down conditions which ensure protection of the interests of aged people without unduly hamstringing the organisations. 
Control of aged people's homes is limited to approved organisations, such as religious, charitable and benevolent societies and ex-servicemen's bodies, municipal councils and similar bodies. Approved organisations must be non profit making, as the Minister pointed out. They must provide permanent accommodation. They must have single rooms for single people and married couples must be accommodated in double rooms, flats or cottages. Single people must not be allowed to occupy double accommodation. Homes for the aged must be used exclusively for the aged - for men aged more than 65 years and women more than 60 years. Grants are limited to $4,800 for a single unit and $6,000 for a double unit. This ensures that wasteful expensive accommodation does not occur. 
The honourable member for Oxley criticised the payment of donations to these organisations. Conditions are applied to donations. They must be used for further capital costs, thus ensuring that in future more homes and units will be built so that more people will secure accommodation and the scheme will snowball making more accommodation available for the elderly. A limitation is prescribed whereby half the occupants must come in free after the first donation, so as time passes more people will enter aged homes without any donation being required of them. 1 do not see why it is wrong that people who have the money to pay should not pay to get into these organisations, because if they do, they do not become a charge on the taxpayer. Why should people who have the money be subsidised by the taxpayer? The honourable member for Oxley talks with 2 voices. At one time he says that he would apply a means test, but at another time, in another breath and in another place he advocates a national superannuation scheme which, presumably, would have no means test. He should be consistent when he makes criticisms of the sort he made today. 
Another restriction applying to aged persons homes is that people who go into them do not acquire any tenancy rights. This ensures that people accommodated' in these homes cannot establish some sort of permanent claim. Of course we all know that the organisations involved in running these homes are well meaning and to imply that anything wrong would be. done to the inhabitants is quite improper on the part of the honourable member for Oxley. The Aged Persons Homes Act has been extended on several occasions over the years. Provision has been made whereby if any of these aged persons homes bodies require a nursing home unit they will be subsidised. The homes get a special subsidy of $20 every 4 weeks for each person over 80 years of age as a form of help for the frail. As a result of this Act aged people do not have to live out their lives in substandard accommodation or in accommodation which they cannot afford, which was the situation before this Government came to office. 
The Minister mentioned the work that has been done by the 2 Wilsons -  Sir Keith  Wilson and Ian Wilson. I did not know  Sir 
Keith Wilson but I have served in this House with Ian Wilson. The honourable member for Oxley seemed to think that the Minister should not have said what he did, but I hope, and predict, that after the next election this House, and this country, will have the benefit again of the work of Ian Wilson. He may not be as garrulous as the present honourable member for Stuart  (Mr Foster)  but he certainly made a fine contribution to this Parliament. 1 hope, as does the Minister, that we will see him back again after the next election. We, as Australian citizens, should be proud, as the Minister pointed out, that 80 per cent of married age pensioners in Australia today own their own homes and that 50 per cent of single age pensioners also own their own homes, Many of the others are satisfactorily housed in aged persons homes under this Act or are living comfortably with their families as they choose. Today only a small percentage of pensioners are not satisfactorily housed. What a contrast to the situation when Labor ruled this country and before this Government came to office. 
In the years since the Aged Persons Homes Act was first introduced by the Government we have seen remarkable progress. Today, as a result of the actions of this Government and with the assistance of church and charitable organisations, for which we should be grateful and not critical, many thousands of elderly and frail people can now end their days in .companionship and comfort. This is something in which we, as a nation, can take great pride. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I claim to have been misrepresented by the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster). 
Does the honourable member wish to make a personal explanation? 
Yes. The honourable member for Sturt said a few moments ago that while I was speaking during this debate I associated myself with the remarks of the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  at page 9 of the manuscript copy of his statement. This is not correct. I have sent for the green copy of my speech. It is not ready. But Hansard will confirm what I said. What I did say was that the Minister had mentioned  Sir Keith  Wilson and  Mr Ian  Wilson, and the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  had also mentioned these 2 gentlemen. I said that I did not know  Sir Keith  Wilson but that I had been associated with  Mr Ian  Wilson in this House and I knew the contribution which he had made in this Parliament. I said that he was perhaps not so garrulous as the present honourable member for Sturt, that he had certainly made a fine contribution to this Parliament. I felt he would have a lot more to contribute when he is re-elected as the member for Sturt at the next election. I in no way associated myself with any remarks made by the Minister about the present member for Sturt. 
I ask the Minister for the Interior: Has he seen a report that the Secretary of the New South Wales branch of the Australian Labor Party,  Mr Peter  Westerway, told a Labor Youth Rally in Sydney that at the next elections flying squads would be formed by the Australian Labor Party, to visit polling booths in key electorates to see that there was no substitution of ballot boxes and ballot papers and no miscounting of votes by the Commonwealth Electoral Office? What action has the Minister taken to ascertain whether these allegations of irregularities are true or false? 
I present the following petition: 
The Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of residents of Victoria respectfully sheweth: 
The Red Kangaroo, largest marsupial in the world, has through shooting for commerce become extinct or rare in many areas where it was once prolific. 
We, the signatories to this petition feel that the commercial killing of kangaroos, when permissible cropping rates are unknown, is one of the most blatant examples of un-conservation and stupidity being permitted by a civilized country in the world today. 
Estimates show that kangaroos alive in their natural habitat as tourist attractions are worth $8200m more to the Australian economy over a period of 9 years, than dead ones exported as pet food or toys over the same period. 
We believe that Australians have the right to see kangaroos in reasonable numbers on the landscape - the kangaroo is our National Symbol, the symbol of a country going ahead in leaps and bounds. We object to the present degradation of this symbol. 
We, your petitioners, therefore humbly pray that you will: 
Immediately take action to see that State governments prohibit the commercial shooting of kangaroos. 
Enact legislation to give the Commonwealth Government responsibility throughout Australia for all native wildlife and habitat upon which it is dependant for survival. 
Petition received. 
Has the Minister for Foreign Affairs seen the text of a proclamation issued by  President  Nixon to mark a national week of concern for Americans who are prisoners of war or who are missing in action in Indo-China? Will the Minister ensure that the President's proclamation and the tragic situation which it describes are brought to the attention of the Australian people? 
I direct to the Prime Minister a question relating to the answer just given by the Minister for Customs and Excise. In view of the answer of the Minister will the Prime Minister investigate, with a view to repealing, that section of the Customs (Prohibited Imports) Regulations of December 1968 which places what many Australians consider to be a form of political censorship on Australians in that it prevents the Australian people from freely learning about both sides of the Rhodesian question? 
Is the amendment seconded? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Labour and National Service,  is  supplementary to the question asked by the honourable member for Batman. Is the Minister aware of a statement made by  Mr George  Meaney, the  President  of America's major union organisation, the American Federation of Labour and Congress of Industrial Organisations, that he is disenchanted with  Strikes  and that his organisation has appointed a committee to search for an alternative weapon to strikes? Can the Minister inform the House of the loss in wages to the Australian workers last year caused by strikes? In view of the tremendous cost of strikes to this country, will the Minister consider inviting  Mr Meaney  to Australia so that he can place his views before those responsible for the frequent disruption of our economy? 
Is it the wish of the House to debate these measures together? There being no objection, that course will be followed. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection leave is granted. (The statement read as follows): 

<graphic href="078131197205106_49_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="078131197205106_50_5.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="078131197205106_51_6.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="078131197205106_52_7.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="078131197205106_53_8.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="078131197205106_54_9.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="078131197205106_55_10.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="078131197205106_56_11.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="078131197205106_57_12.jpg"></graphic>

The Minister seeks to justify the retention of strike penalties by making reference to the 3 million man-days lost in 1971 through strikes. But in point of fact it is not lost production that worries him; it is lost profit. If the Minister is worried, as he ought to be, about lost production, why does he not turn his mind to reducing the 4 million man-days that are lost each year through avoidable industrial accidents and disease. If his Government is so concerned about lost production, how does he explain the fact that his Government is allowing the production loss of something like 19 million man-days through unemployment? 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Why does the Minister for Labour and National Service keep on blaming wage increases for inflation when he knows perfectly well that wage increases do not cause inflation but merely reflect inflationary pressures already operating? Why does he call out for wage restraint and at the same time close his eyes to excessive profits, rising prices, increased interest charges and the colossal increase in land prices? Does he blame wage increases for the present interest charges or for the high price of land or for excessive profits? Hardly. Yet these are the real enemies of price stability. I am pleased to note the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin)  is nodding either in agreement or in sleep. 
What indeed is the Minister's concept of what he is pleased to describe as a 'sound and well balanced economy'? Does he mean an economy in which only 36 per cent of employees receive the average weekly earnings, and in which 4.5 million employees must be satisfied with about half the national cake while between them the other half million carve up the balance for themselves? Does he mean that we need wage control and that only prices should be fixed at what the market will yield? If that is what he means, he should be very happy indeed with the state of affairs that exist at present 
Perhaps the most objectionable feature in the whole Bill is the provision that will prevent the settlement of disputes by way of industrial agreement. That, in a nutshell, is what will result from the Government's proposal to permit appeals against agreements and consent awards and in prohibiting the registration of some agreements unless they have the approval of the Full Bench of the Commission. In essence, this is a Bill to freeze wages. 
The signs indicate that Australia has set its course for an industrial relations system under which the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission will confine itself merely to setting minimum standards for hours, wages, leave and general conditions of employment while management and labour, relying upon collective bargaining, will set the going rates. The Opposition is critical of section 58 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act - a section of which this Government, although it has looked at it, does not seem to understand its full significance. This section gives legal perpetuity to industrial agreements drawn and expressed by the parties to be of a stated and limited duration. This is an important defect of the functioning of the Act at present and no honourable member on the Government side has noticed the defect to which I refer. It leads to neglect and stateness where there should be challenge and change. Obsolete standards remain sanctified by the law. 
Wage agreements can give this country greater stability and should be encouraged. In the whole of the past 10 years only 14 prosecutions were launched against the unions which are parties to the 151 registered agreements now current. That is less than 2 a year. I am not saying that there were no more breaches. What I am saying is that those were the only breaches in respect of which prosecutions were launched. But to put the record straight, there have not been very many breaches at all. 
Contrary to the impression given by the Minister for Labour and National Service, who seems to have come under the influence of the Prime Minister in recent months, union officials are not given to the repudiation of freely negotiated voluntary agreements. But an agreement cannot be said to have been freely negotiated while one party is threatened with savage penalties for resisting attempts to convert minimum rates into maximum rates. Given the kind of atmosphere which the repeal of strike penalties would create, there would be no doubt in my mind that unions and their members would honour their agreements to the letter. Surely it is high time that we went back to the objects of the Act and began to provide proper machinery for the encouragement of conciliation with a view to securing the settlement of industrial disputes by agreement. 
A Labor government will do that. It will give every support possible to the Australian Council of Trade Unions in carrying out its declared policy to secure the observance of all agreements made under its auspices. Agreements made outside the auspices of the ACTU can include their own built-in enforcement provisions in those cases where such provisions are recommended by a union's executive and ratified by the membership affected by the agreement. This is by far the most effective way of securing industrial peace. Last year's metal trades agreement produced a new stability to the industry until it was interrupted by the Government's immoral financial support for Democratic Labor Party interference in the metal workers amalgamation. Superimposed upon this has been the bitter disappointment felt by all of the lower paid employees over the Government's shameful intervention in opposition to the ACTU's claim for a wage adjustment to compensate for rising prices. The meat industry is yet another case in which a turbulent industry has reached industrial stability as a direct consequence of an industrial agreement. 
Employers and unions alike are now looking for the election of a Labor government because after 22 years they have come to realise that this Government has not yet learnt even the rudimentary facts of industrial life. When the need for encouraging industrial agreements has been so amply demonstrated by events, this Government decides to make the settlement of industrial disputes by agreement virtually impossible. When the urgent need for amalgamation is seen by management and labour alike and by the Minister, our Prime Minister decides to dive head first into the DLP dunghill of political blackmail in a frantic search for the hidden preferences with which he foolishly believes he can avert the certain defeat that now faces him on election day. When all industrial experts are calling for expedition and the minimum of legal form technically, this Government has struck out in the very opposite direction by separating conciliation from arbitration and by introducing processes that make it possible to set aside awards and agreements laboriously hammered out through conciliation and arbitration. 
When even the judges of the Industrial Court now concede that it was the capricious and excessive use of the old contempt powers by certain metal trades employers that led to the collapse of the whole penal system, this Government has decided to remove the 1970 safeguards against such abuses by making it mandatory upon judges of the Commission automatically to grant prosecution certificates to any employer who applies. The merits of each case will no longer be relevant. When people like the 
Industrial Registrar have been realistic enough to see that the vast majority of strikes originate at the floor level and not in the offices of union officials, this Government has proven itself stupid enough to believe that it can prevent strikes by merely conducting a secret ballot among those whose pressure for a fair go are seeing the strike weapon as the only resort open to them under a system that has become bogged down with legal technicalities and Government interference. 
And as though these examples of crass stupidity and double-talk were not enough, the Government proposes to give Conciliation Commissioners an increase of $84.60 a week, retrospective to November of last year, as the price it is prepared to pay its $16,000 a year Commissioners to exercise wage restraint against the hundreds of thousands of working men whom it expects to maintain their families on a miserable $52 a week. Why, the Prime Minister would think nothing of spending a working man's weekly wage in entertaining a friendly couple in one night. I have seen him do it. I did not see him pay, but the bill would have amounted to that. 
Is it any wonder that people receiving less than $80 a week detect a hollow ring to an $800 a week Prime Ministers call for peace in industry when the Commission awards our 4i million employees the princely sum of $2 a week to compensate for cost-of-living increases which, in one quarter alone, equalled the full increase granted for the 16 months period that has elapsed since the last national wage case was determined? 
When employers, employees and responsible Australians in all walks of life are crying out for a balanced and reasonable approach to the solution of industrial unrest and for ending the inflationary situation that is causing its manifestation, this Government deliberately sets out to create an industrial crisis knowing full well that whatever its political advantage, the disadvantage to our country will be devastating. 
Stripped of its technicalities and complexities this Bill can be seen for what it is - an Act to freeze the wages and salaries of the 4) million employees whose living standards are governed, either directly or indirectly, by the proper functioning of the arbitration system. The Opposition rejects the Bill. We deplore the Government's action in using intimidatory and other questionable tactics to subvert the course of wage justice. Employees had every right to expect a substantial wage increase from the recent national wage case. The ACTU claim for a $70 a week minimum wage was not an excessive figure for the maintenance of a man and his family. 
If the Prime Minister can devise a budget that will properly maintain a man, his wife and 2 children in food and clothing and to pay their educational expenses, transport expenses and house rent and so on on $70 a week, I will resign from the Parliament tomorrow. But if he cannot do it he has no right to oppose the ACTU application for a minimum wage of $70 a week. The Government's blatant opposition to a reasonable wage increase, and the methods used to achieve its end, is a disgrace to democracy and is condemned by the Opposition as a blatant abuse of power. 
This BiD is a Bill to perpetuate the position that has been produced by a pliant arbitration system. We reject the Bill and at the Committee stage of the debate will speak and vote against its most objectionable features. Moreover, let me also make it perfectly clear that when we become a government - it will not be long now - those sections will be repealed and prompt steps taken to update the law so that we can cope with the ever changing needs of modern technology. Unless we act quickly it will be too late. The sooner the people can exercise the right to vote this hopeless, hapless, divided Government out of office the better it will be for Australia and for industrial relations. 
Has the Minister for Foreign Affairs seen the call by certain unions for a stop work meeting tomorrow to demonstrate in Melbourne and Sydney against the United States? Will the Minister reaffirm the Australian Government's belief in the value of the ANZUS Treaty to the defence of Australia and will he reassure the Australian people that the Government will give all moral support to President Nixon in his efforts to bring a peace to Vietnam which will ensure the freedom of the South Vietnamese people to choose their own form of government? 
Has the Minister for Education and Science seen certain rather savage comments published today on Government aid to particular independent schools? Can the Minister inform the House whether the article concerned really presents a true and balanced picture of the assistance which the Government is giving to education? 
I ask a question of the Minister for Immigration which is supplementary to the one asked today by the Leader of the Opposition concerning Air Vice-Marshal Hawkins, a distinguished Australian airman who fought for this country during the last war, and the withdrawal of his passport. Was any consideration given to withdrawing the passport of  Mr Crawford,  the Victorian  President  of the Australian Labor Party, who is at present visiting North Vietnam? 
I ask the Minister for Supply: What action has been taken to measure the fall-out in Australia from the recent French nuclear tests in the Pacific? Can the Minister inform the House of the results of any such measurements? 
In the last week or so 2 events of some importance have occurred on the international scene. One was the announcement by President Amin, the dictator of Uganda, that 80,000 Asians almost all of whom were born in that country, and many holding Ugandan passports, would be expelled. Many would become stateless citizens. The second event was the expulsion of the multi-racial Rhodesian team by a vote of 36 to 31 from the Olympic Games on the ground that Rhodesia is a racist country. One of the 36 countries voting for the expulsion of the multi-racial Rhodesian team was Uganda. 
I agree. Australians all read the headlines in the daily Press yes terday and today with some regret. The Australian' carried the headline 'The Expulsion of Rhodesian Athletes a Victory for Polities'. The Sydney 'Sun' headline was 'Black Power Win at Games'. The Melbourne 'Herald' said 'Rhodesia dumped - and Games blacks laugh and cheer*. As an Australian I do not intend to sit in judgment on the internal policies which the Government of Rhodesia believes are best for that country, but like all average Australians I believe in a sense of fair play. This is a case of the Rhodesian team consisting of 37 whites and 7 blacks being expelled from the Olympic Games to suit the political aims of certain countries wanting to brand Rhodesia as racist. Yet the greatest racist country of them all - Uganda - was one of the countries voting for the Rhodesians expulsion. Did anyone suggest expelling the Ugandans? Of course not. What a farce it was. Not a word was raised against the treatment of Ugandan-born Asians by Uganda either at the International Olympic Committee or in the United Nations. 
Let us look at what President Amin has said. He has reiterated that his decision to expel Ugandan-born Asians within 90 days still stands. The deadline is 5th November and no later. He has talked of setting up refugee camps for the Asians while they are waiting transportation from Uganda. The mere mention of refugee camps should take us all back to a similar situation caused by a similar type of dictator nearly 30 years ago. But world leaders have been strangely silent in their condemnation of this gross and inhuman act on the part of Uganda. The only black African leader to protest against Uganda's racist policies was, to his credit, President Nyerere of Tanzania. The only reaction he received from President Amin was to be branded a coward for not doing the same thing in Tanzania. Then followed the strange statement of President Amin to President Nyerere: 'I love you very much. If you had been a woman I would have considered marrying you, even though your head is full of grey hairs'. God knows what all that means. I do not know what a psychiatrist would make of it. 
I think it is time that all Australians woke up to the farce which is being played in international politics and in the international forums of the world. We live in a world of double standards both at home and abroad. The left wing in Australia has long branded South Africa and Rhodesia as racist countries. But neither South Africa nor Rhodesia, whatever else may be levelled at them, has ever expelled en masse people born in their countries as Uganda is doing - and doing on purely racist grounds. It is not so long ago since we had the South African rugby tour in this country disrupted by left wing demonstrators. The same people were successful in having the South African cricket tour to Australia cancelled. Not a word of concern has been uttered by those who so actively demonstrated against the South African rugby tour or the South African cricket tour. When I look at the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen),  I think of him when he was playing his horn outside of the South African Embassy. 
He will have an opportunity to speak in this Parliament The double standards exist not only abroad but also, it seems, at home. We are told by those who oppose the policies of South Africa and Rhodesia that we should not play sport with these countries, that we should not trade with them or have diplomatic contact with them. But the same people tell us that even if we do not agree with Communist China we should play ping-pong with people from that country, trade with them and have diplomatic relations with them. I agree that we should play ping-pong with them, that we should have diplomatic relations with them and that we should trade with them. But do sot let us have 2 standards - one for Communist countries and one for nonCommunist countries. 
The same people who tell us that we should recognise Communist China and admit it to the United Nations - it has been now - because it is the effective government of mainland China, tell us in the same breath that we must cease to recognise Taiwan and expel it from the United Nations even though it is the effective government of Taiwan. If we are to have any credibility as a nation we must stand on principles, because any nation that stands for expediency and expediency alone must surely be discredited.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  as an Australian citizen and the represen tative of some 100,000 Australians in this Parliament, I wish to register my disgust and abhorrence at the actions of the Ugandan Government in expelling Ugandanborn Asians purely on the grounds that their skin is of a different colour. 
I was a little disappointed in the speech made by the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  tonight because he has a reputation of usually saying something outrageous. When he does not one feels a little disappointed. I admire his sincerity and courage in saying the things he does say in this House. This is a commendable quality in any character. The Budget which was presented this year by the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  has been overwhelmingly received by the Press and public alike as an excellent one, and rightly so. However, it is easy when we think of the 10 per cent tax cuts, the increase in pensions, the widening of the means test and help for housing and education benefits, all of which mean so much to so many people, perhaps to forget the wider aspects. It has become a custom in an election year to expect an election winning Budget from the encumbent Government. If there was ever an election winning Budget, this surely must be one. I think that the comment of the Melbourne Sun' summed up the situation accurately when it said that this Budget steered an intelligent course between generosity and responsibility. This Budget is a responsible Budget because it aims to remedy certain sluggish conditions which have crept into the economy in recent months. In short, its overall effect will be to increase the buying capacity of Australians, which in turn will boost production and cut unemployment. This is the right kind of Budget for this time. 
I could not help but feel that the most momentous announcement was that the means test would be widened considerably, that it would be abolished within 3 years and that a committee of inquiry would be set up to examine ways and means of responsibly financing a national superannuation scheme. I think that all Australians are sick and tired of the continual doling out of $1, $1.50 or $2 to pensioners to improve their lot or to keep them abreast of the cost of living. Less affluent countries than Australia have workable national superannuation schemes. If they can do it, so can we. I believe that we should have a situation where all contribute during their working lives and where all benefit as of right and not as of charity in their retirement. While the means tests remains, even in its wider form, inequality and injustice will always occur at the cut-off point. The announcement about the means test is a welcome one. I believe that the Government is wise to set up an inquiry into a national superannuation scheme rather than to rush headlong in and institute a scheme. 
I was also gratified at the reduction of 10 per cent in personal income tax on lower and middle incomes. Not only will this stimulate consumer demand; it will be of great assistance to the family man who is endeavouring to pay off a home and provide for all the needs of a growing family. As the Treasurer pointed out, 57 per cent of the reduction will go to people with an income under $4,800 per annum, 75 per cent will go to those with an income under $6,480 per annum and 85 per cent will go to those with an income under $8,000 per annum. It is obvious from these figures that those most in need of extra funds for consumer spending will benefit most; yet the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  in search of a criticism, has called this a rich man's Budget. Surely he is not serious in classing anyone earning $4,800 per annum or $90 a week as rich. If he is, I think all those earning $90 a week or more should beware of a Labor government, because it is obvious where the added taxation will fall to finance the pie in the sky which the Labor Party is already promising if it becomes the government this year. 
I was pleased to note that the Government planned to keep the immigration quota at 140,000 migrants for the coming year. The rate at which Australia has absorbed new settlers has undoubtedly placed considerable strain on our economy in the field of housing, education, hospitals and all the other various facilities which a rapidly growing community requires. It would be easy for a government which was looking for short term remedies to cut down on migration and hope to ease the strain in this way. But the Government has taken a more far sighted view and has not chosen to do so. I do not believe that Australia has any moral right - nor will it be allowed by future generations - to occupy this vast continent with a small population. Australia's migration policy has aimed at maintaining a homogeneous population to avoid the racial problems which are so apparent, and so explosive, in certain other countries, yet at the same time we have allowed into our country, approximately 9,000 non-Europeans per annum, a figure which it is felt Australia can readily absorb without undue strain. The Government's positive approach to migration contrasts strongly with that of the Opposition - that is, if one can ascertain just what the policy of the Labor Party is in this regard. Whereas the Leader of the Opposition has been most guarded and vague concerning Labor's policy on immigration, it must be remembered that he replaced his shadow Minister for Immigration, who is at present sitting at the table on the Opposition side, when he was expounding policies similar to the policy of the Government and that the Labor Premier of South Australia has made a call virtually to open the flood gates to non-European migration. 
Australia has always played a forward role in aid to underdeveloped countries, and it was pleasing to note that aid in the coming year will be increased by 10 per cent to $220m. Australia ranks third, in terms of aid as a percentage of gross national product, and not fourth as was said by the honourable member for Maribyrnong, in the list of donor nations. The front runner, France, gives 0.65 per cent of its gross national product, the Netherlands 0.63 per cent of its gross national product, and Australia, the third country, 0.59 per cent of its gross national product. Such relatively wealthy countries as Canada and Japan give only 0.43 per cent and 0.23 per cent respectively of their gross national product. Unlike many other nations our aid to underdeveloped countries takes the form of grants rather than loans; so Australia does not add to the interest bill of developing nations. Much of our aid. of course, goes towards the development of Papua New Guinea, an effort of which we can be justly proud. 
The decision to match expenditure by the States on a SI for SI basis for the development of tourist activities is a sound one. Situated at a great distance from Europe and America, with high and controlled air fares, Australia has too long missed out on earning overseas exchange which tourists would bring into this country. The grant of $2.5m to South Australia for the sealing of the Eyre Highway between Adelaide and Perth will make it easier for Australians themselves to travel around this vast continent of ours. There is an urgent need however, for the restructuring and sealing of the highway between Alice Springs and Adelaide. It seems a ridiculous situation in this day and age, that an Australian tourist must put his car on a train in Adelaide if he wishes to tour from Alice Springs to Darwin. If this road were sealed it would greatly expand the number of southern tourists travelling to the Northern Territory. New motels and attractions would spring up and a whole world of new development would occur  in Australia's north and northwest. I hope it will not be too long before the Government takes the initiative in this regard. 
It was interesting to note,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that there was absolutely no mention of defence in the reply of the Leader of the Opposition to the Budget. This is really not surprising as it has always been difficult to ascertain what the Labor Party's policy is in this vital sphere. In its Federal platform, defence is relegated to the twentieth item, coming after such items as cultural affairs, cities and transport. Are we to assume that this is the importance with which the Labor Party regards benefit of the nation, if you are unable to and primary duty of any government is the protection of the national interest. It is not much use making other proposals for the benefits of the nation, if you are unable to implement them because you do not control that country. By contrast, defence was one of the first matters to be dealt with by the Treasurer in his Budget Speech, and the defence vote proposed has been increased by $106m to $l,323m. Expenditure on capital equipment has increased from $140m last year to $200m this year. On the advice of the Government's military advisers, it has been the policy of this Government to maintain an army of between 40,000 and 42,000 men. It has been pointed out that any reduction below 40,000 would result in under-manning of some units, to the extent that it would be necessary to abandon them. Yet what do we hear from honourable members opposite? The honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison)  has advocated an all-volunteer army, with a strength of about 30,000 men, which he claims would meet current defence requirements. 
I am glad to hear the honourable member for Wills, who is not in his seat, say: 'Hear, hear' because it is obvious that this must be the policy of most members of the Labor Party. The honourable member for St George has further claimed that a 5 or 6 battalion permanent force would be more efficient than the present 9 battalion force. I understand that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  advocated a similar major reduction of the Army in his address to the Returned Services League National Executive in Canberra on 14th August. As the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  pointed out recently, a reduction in the strength of the Army from 40,000 to 30,000 - which is a reduction of 25 per cent and a serious reduction in any man's language - would cause the disbandment of 5 to 6 infantry battalions and would leave this country with an army of very little significance. The defence policy of the Government has 3 main objectives. They are: The maintenance of national independence, the prevention or removal of possible threats to that independence, and a greater degree of self-reliance on the part of Australia's armed forces. They are admirable objectives, and the Budget provisions go a long way towards fulfilling them. 
Payments to the States have been increased considerably in the Budget and constitute the largest single element in Commonwealth expenditure. Under our Federal system we have a situation in which the Commonwealth and the States are involved, both jointly and severally, in the expenditure of those funds. Under this system it has been only too easy in the past for the States to blame the Commonwealth for any shortcomings, and the result has been that the elector has not known which government to blame or on which government he should put pressure. However, the State Premiers came away from the Premiers Conference in a much happier frame of mind this year. The increased payments to the States in this Budget must make the task of the States much easier. I believe that tied grants from the Commonwealth to the States should be kept to an absolute minimum. The States are given certain functions to perform under the Constitution, and tied grants should not be used as a means of getting around the Constitution. 
In the field of education this Government has again shown its particular concern for the education of all Australian children. The demand on taxpayers' funds for education has become exceedingly great. Direct expenditure by the Commonwealth, including payments to the States for education, will rise by $72m this year to a total of $426m. There is a vast difference in the approach of the Government and that of the Opposition to education. Under the Constitution education is laid down for administration by the States. The Labor Party  policy is to set up a schools commission here in Canberra virtually to centralise control of all government and nongovernment schools - primary, secondary and technical. Not only would it run contrary to the spirit of the Constitution but also it would not, I believe, be in the best interests of the schools or of the students. It would be the act of a centralist party and would lead virtually to the nationalisation of all education under the one central government authority centered here in Canberra. Presumably the aim of this schools commission would be, on the decision of some bureaucrat in Canberra, to grant government assistance to some schools and to deny it to others. It would virtually nationalise education. 
It is ridiculous for Opposition members to talk of grants to so-called wealthy schools. The government per capita grants to independent schools are not, in effect, grants to the schools. They are actually subsidies to keep the fees of these schools within the reach of the average citizen if he is prepared to make the large financial sacrifice necessary to ha- a choice of the school which his child will attend. Per capita grants are in fact grants to the parents to help meet the cost of rising fees. If, due to rising teachers' salaries and other costs, the fees of these schools were to increase to such an extent that only the children of those on high salaries could attend them, they would indeed become the province of the wealthy. This would be class segregation at its worst. 
The increased expenditure on Aboriginal advancement announced in this Budget of 70 per cent to $S3m this year is welcome news. Since Federation successive governments have fallen down badly on their responsibility to Aboriginal advancement. It is a great indictment of us as Australians that, 200 years after the white man came to Australia, the Aboriginal is not in a better or more secure position. However, since the referendum was passed giving the Commonwealth power in regard to Aboriginals we have seen positive steps taken to improve their lot. The Commonwealth is indeed fortunate in having the services of  Dr H.  C. Coombs as  Chairman  of the Council for Aboriginal Affairs. We must be on our guard, however, to see that the 144,000 Australian Aboriginals are not used as a political football by certain groups for their own purpose. Last year the Communist Party paper 'Tribune' called for a mass movement to make land rights for Aboriginals the big issue in 1972 to replace the Vietnam war which it claimed was winding down. Let us hope that the Aboriginal people will not be used by these people for their own ulterior motives. It will only do harm to the cause of the Aboriginal. We must recognise that we will not solve their problems in one generation and that the clamour for land rights will not in itself overcome their disabilities. 
One section of the community which has been greatly disadvantaged in the past is the chronically  in  in nursing homes. The Government is to be commended for the steps it has taken in this Budget to improve the situation of these people. The introduction of nursing home insurance benefits, the additional nursing home benefits for pensioners and the increase in subsidies for home nursing organisations will do much to relieve the stress and worry which these people have suffered in the past. The impetus given to the development of hostel type accommodation for the aged who cannot look after themselves, and the payment of $14 a week benefit to a person who, on a regular and continuing basis, gives professional nursing care to an aged relative will do much to improve the comfort of our elderly and chronically ill citizens. 
It is impossible in the time allotted for a member to cover all the points he would wish to make concerning the Budget, particularly when the Budget is as comprehensive and far-reaching as this one is. I have listened with some considerable interest to Opposition speakers from the Leader of the Opposition onwards - or perhaps I should say 'downwards' - and I have not heard any practical propositions put forward which could responsibly improve on this Budget. The Leader of the Opposition challenged the Government to hold a general election on this Budget. This Government is not afraid to face the people at any time. It has an inherent faith in the good sense and sound judgment of the average Australian. But the Government has given certain undertakings in the Budget and it will see them fulfilled before it goes to an election this year. The Budget is not the only issue which will decide which Party governs Australia for the next 3 years. There are other issues such as foreign policy and defence. Can we afford to neglect industrial relations or the climate of violence - issues on which the Labor Party knows it is highly vulnerable? The election must be fought on all issues, because then and only then will it be clear to the voter the ill which would be wrought to this country if the Labor Party were to gain the Treasury bench at the end of this year. 
Today the work of this House has been interrupted continually by members of the Opposition frivolously calling for quorums in this House. Perhaps the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster),  who appears to be about to leave the chamber, ought to stay. For those people who read Hansard or those who may not know, perhaps I should explain that a quorum is the attendance in the House of at least onethird of the whole number of members of the House. This is laid down in the Standing Orders and at the present time the number of members required to make a quorum is 42. During the Budget debate, particularly in the latter stages of the debate, quite often a quorum is not present. Most of the points relating to the Budget have been covered and most honourable member prefer to listen to the debate over the loud speakers in their offices while they go ahead with work concerning their constituents, research for their speeches and the 101 other tasks which a member must fit into a day. 
However, an honourable member has the right, under the Standing Orders, to draw the attention of the Chair to the state of the House or, to put it in layman's terms, to the fact that a quorum is not present. Opposition members have, I believe, deliberately abused the provisions of the relevant standing order because by calling for a quorum not only do they cause those listening to the debate, either in the House or over the broadcasting system, to lose the thread of what the  speaker  is driving at but also they cause the  speaker  to lose approximately 2 minutes of his allotted speaking time. It is an abuse of the Standing Orders and I believe it shows a very petty approach. 
My point is proven,  Mr Speaker.  (Quorum formed) 
The fact that the honourable member for Sturt has in a petulant manner called a quorum at this time of night has proved the point I was making. He is probably the worst offender in this regard. 1 believe that the Standing Orders Committee of this House should look at ways and means of preventing members such as the honourable member for Sturt from using the forms of this Parliament for their own mischievous party political reasons. 1 find most amazing the repeated statements by the honourable member for Sturt to honourable members on this side of the chamber whenever he or one of his colleagues have irresponsibly called a quorum. He shouts out in his usual manner: 'It is your job to keep the House.' It is on this remark that I would like to make one point. If a quorum is not formed within 2 minutes of a call for a quorum the work of the House ceases and at considerable cost to the taxpayers the House is adjourned until the next day of sitting. This actually happened when the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  called a quorum last year. I would like to point out to the honourable member for Sturt that even though he is an Opposition member, as an elected member of this Parliament he is paid the same salary and has the same responsibility as any member of the Government Parties to be in this House when he is required. 
The taxpayers who pay his salary and the electors who put him here have every right to expect that of him. Let him cease to say in his usual manner that it is not his duty or that of his Labor Party colleagues to come to the House when a quorum is called. The electors send him here to do a job just as they send any other member here. They have every right to demand that he accept his responsibilities just as members of the Government Parties do. Last year, as a member of the Parliamentary Privileges Committee I sat on an inquiry into a report by journalist Alan Reid that Labor Party members walked out of the House when a quorum was called, leading to the collapse of the House on that occasion. The matter was referred to the Committee on the initiative of the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope).  The Committee found no evidence that members of the Labor Party walked out of the House when the quorum was called but it is no secret that many members of the Opposition do not consider that it is their duty to come to the House to help to maintain a quorum. They seem to think that it is solely the duty of members of the Government Parties. I believe that this is an irresponsible attitude of certain Labor Party members and I want the electors of Australia to be aware of their attitude. 
 I ask the Minister for Social Services: What arrangements are being made to get knowledge of social service entitlements into the hands of those newcomers to Australia whose knowledge of English is limited? 
I listened with some interest to the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  replying to the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  who introduced the Social Services Bill (No. 4) 1972 in the House this morning. I was surprised to find that the honourable member for Oxley spent his first 15 minutes talking about anything but the provisions of the Bill. He talked on about the economy and unemployment but did not have one word of praise or respect for the provisions of the Bill. He paid scant attention to what most people believe are giant steps forward in the whole social service structure of Australia. He said that the Government had done little or nothing regarding social services since it had taken over from the Labor Party in 1949. Obviously he has not seen a booklet entitled 'Developments in Social Services Between 1949 and 1972' which has been produced by the Minister for Social Services. I commend it to him. It shows what has been achieved since the last Labor government was driven from office in 1949. 
The honourable member for Oxley praised the situation in Denmark and said that Danes who came to Australia found that social services here are not as good as those enjoyed in Denmark. I was in Denmark last year and I was surprised at the number of young people who told me that they wanted to migrate to Australia. I spoke to each of these people in turn and asked, if they had such a wonderful setup of social security in Denmark, why they wanted to migrate to Australia. The answer was always the same; that the whole of their incentive was being crippled by taxation. Young men who went to work were unable to make ends meet because they had to finance this social security system which, even then, they had doubts about. 
The honourable member for Oxley talked about the pension being below the poverty line. As honourable members know Professor Henderson, in 1966, set out what he considered to be the poverty line. This has since been updated. Let us now compare present pensions with' this updated Henderson poverty line. For a single male paying rent the poverty line is $23.33 a week, as adjusted to Professor Henderson's figures. However, the single male pensioner paying rent receives $24 a week. For the single female paying rent the poverty line is $21.71 a week. The pension for a single female who is paying rent is $24 a week. For a married couple paying rent the poverty line is $30.98; the equivalent social service benefit is $38.50- well in advance of the poverty line. For a widow with one child the poverty line is $29.34; the actual social service benefit received is $35. For a widow with 2 children the poverty line is $38.79; and the social services pension $40.50. For a widow with 3 children the poverty line is $45.49; the actual social service receipt is $47. The only case where there is a discrepancy is for a widow with no children - the poverty line is $23 and the actual social service receipt is $21.25. These figures give the lie to the statement of the honourable member for Oxley that pensions are below the poverty line. As I have just demonstrated very clearly, they are not. The social service pension in every case except that of a widow with no children - who could probably go to work anyway - is well over the poverty line. 
In its policy the Labor Party said that it would abolish the means test within the life of 2 Parliaments. Since the Government has said that it will abolish it within 3 years and, if possible, in even less time, the Labor Party has switched around and said that it, too, will abolish the means test within 3 years. I do not know what this alteration will do to the 5-year plan for a superannuation scheme of the honourable member for Oxley if the Australian Labor Party get into office. When the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  introduced the Budget on 15th August last he stated that it was geared to achieve social and economic goals of significance to all Australians and particularly to families. We had, I think, all expected a good Budget, one that would stimulate the economy and assist those in need. We certainly were not disappointed. This Bill gives effect to the increases in social service pensions and the widening of the means test outlined by the Treasurer in his Budget Speech. 
Since the McMahon Government came to office some 18 months ago pensions have been increased on 4; separate occasions, with the result that the rate of the single pension has increased by $4.50 a week to $20 a week in that time. The rate of a married pensioner couple has increased by $7 a week to $34.50. This is a percentage increase of 29 per cent for single pensioners and more than 25 per cent for a married pensioner couple. It has far outstripped the rise in the cost of living,' which. has been 8 per cent during the same period. In addition, pensioners paying rent now receive additional assistance amounting to $4 a week. When one adds to these amounts the fringe benefits which are estimated at somewhere between $5 and $6 per week one sees that the financial position of the. pensioner has been improved considerably. In fact, since the Liberal-Country Party Government first came to office in .1949 the purchasing power of the pensioner has doubled; and this is as it should be. This trend must be continued. In an affluent society such as ours we should be able to see that those who have, during their lifetime, contributed to the wealth and development, of Australia can live out their lives in dignity and comfort in their twilight years. 
The honourable member might think, of course, that they should not, but this is the difference between the policies of the Labor Party and the Government. A lot still remains to be done in this regard. There are limited resources and there are limitless needs. We must always endeavour to bridge that gap. 
The appointment by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  of Professor Henderson to inquire into all aspects of poverty in the community should highlight the areas of greatest need and be a great guide to future governments as to where our limited resources should be directed. It is probably not widely realised that out of the 13 million people living in Australia somewhat fewer than 4 million are taxpayers. This means that roughly one-third of the population must support the other two-thirds. In the past, however, there have been those who, in order not to be a burden on the community in their old age, have joined superannuation schemes and have gone without some of the pleasures and comforts of life so that they would have an income in their old age. However, due to the inflationary forces apparent in economics on a world scale, these people have found that their resources are inadequate to cater for their meagre needs. In many cases those who found themselves ineligible for a pension because their income was just outside the means test, were worse off than some pensioners who, in addition of course, receive medical and other fringe benefits. These people have become our genteel poor - those who have watched their fixed incomes dwindle with every price rise. These are the former hard working citizens of our community - people who have never in the past made great demands upon the nation's resources, but who now find themselves, through no fault of their own, on the poverty line. They have been too proud to seek voluntary assistance and have been unable to obtain government assistance - assistance which should rightly be theirs. There are many such people in my electorate of Deakin. 
In this Budget the Government has recognised the plight of these people and has announced that the means test will again be substantially liberalised and that it will be completely abolished within 3 years. The Prime Minister has said that the Government may well be able to abolish the means test within a much shorter period. This liberalisation of the means test means that a single pensioner with property valued at less than $420 may have a private income of $20 a week and still receive the full pension of $20, making a total income of $40. Some pension will still be payable until his income reaches $60 a week, or married couples some pension will be paid until their combined income reaches $103.50 a week. There are some working men who have to raise families and pay off their homes on less. 
In addition, the Government will set up an inquiry to make recommendations regarding a national superannuation scheme. I am one who has long advocated such a scheme to which all will contribute and from which all will benefit, not as charity but as of right. Such a scheme would encourage thrift, self-help and selfreliance in the community. It would also mean the retention of dignity on the part of the pensioner. Successive governments have for years endeavoured to find a way to do justice to the needs of pensioners and at the same time provide a national retiring allowance on a basis satisfactory to all and one which suits Australia's national needs. The Government has set out in this Budget to eliminate the financial worries of our elderly. Age brings enough burdens on its own - physical weakness, loneliness due to the passing of old friends, the inability to do physically what one once did and the various phychological problems associated with ageing. The Government has done much to overcome these problems. Last Monday the Minister for Social Services came to my electorate of Deakin and together we visited, among other places, 3 aged people's homes, 'Strathdon', a Presbyterian home, 'Annesley', a Methodist home and 'Lakeside Lodge' a home for the aged deaf opened only the previous day. At Annesley' we dined and chatted with those who reside there. In all these homes it was most exhilarating to see how happy these people were. They all had a vital interest in life. As more and more homes for the aged are built and as the hostels for the aged come into being as a result of this Government's policy, more and more people will spend their later years in these happy surroundings. 
I cannot pay enough tribute to the present Minister for Social Services. He is a man of compassion with a driving zeal to achieve happiness and security for those in the community for whom we have a special responsibility. The Australian people are fortunate that we have such a man in this Government. Yesterday at question time in reply to a question asked by me, he revealed that his Department had produced pamphlets in various languages so that all people would be aware of their social service entitlement. I congratulate the Minister on this move. We, as a Government, want everyone in this community who is entitled to a pension to know what his entitlement is. 
Is the honourable member for Robertson suggesting that he does not? In commercial terms social welfare is the largest service industry in Australia. Expenditure on Commonwealth financed social security, health and housing is in excess of $l,900m a year. This amount is exceeded in the Commonwealth Budget only by grants to the States. Expenditure by State and local governments and voluntary agencies adds another $400m to the nation's health and welfare bill. This is a gigantic sum in any man's language. The present provisions have grown in a haphazard manner over the past 70 years but it is obvious from the action of the present Government in deciding to abolish the means test in the near future that the winds of change are blowing to usher in a complete reshaping of our social service structure. The early introduction in Australia of some form of contributory national superannuation with a base rate pension which bears an adequate relationship to previous earnings is urgently needed. I welcome the steps that the Government has taken in this direction. This Budget has been one of understanding and compassion, not just for the noisy and the clamorous but also for that silent majority to which we have an obligation and which seldom complains. This Government certainly does care for these people. I congratulate the Minister on the steps taken in this Bill and on behalf of the elderly people in my electorate of Deakin thank him for all he is doing to improve the lot of those passing along the dimly lit corridors of old age. 
During the weekend the Leader .of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  was reported to have made a policy statement in Townsville in the electorate of my very good friend, the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett),  which I consider should be viewed with considerable concern by the Australian people. It was given very little publicity in the Press and I should like to draw attention to it during this debate on the estimates because on both practical and moral grounds I am totally opposed to it. In the publication setting out Labor's policy immigration takes up little space, something less than 2 inches, and like most of the Labor Party policies is capable of being interpreted in a number of ways. On one line it says that the basis of Labor's policy on immigration will include: 
the avoidance etc.- 
One would take from that statement that Labor would follow the present Government's policy of maintaining a homogeneous population. But on the very next line it is stated: 
The avoidance etc.- 
These 2 statements are self-contradictory. It is obvious that people of different races, skin colours and nationalities have different standards of living and traditions. They most certainly have different cultures. How then can these 2 entirely opposite statements both represent one policy. They are totally incompatible. They are similar to most statements in the Labor Party's platform, which I believe have been deliberately framed in a vague manner to allow of any interpretation if and when the Labor Party gets into power. And this is why we hive so many contradictory statements on policy matters emanating from the Opposition. This is the reason why we get statements from the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  claiming that the present immigration policy would continue under a Labor government and such contradictory statements from the South Australian Labor Premier,  Mr Dunstan,  that a Labor government would virtually open the floodgates. 
But it is with the reported statement of th Leader of the Opposition, made in Townsville last weekend, that I am concerned mainly. He made a statement which amounted to the scrapping of the present assisted passages scheme, a scheme started by his predecessor, the right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell),  and carried on successfully by successive governments during the past 27 years. He said a Labor government would not seek migrants actively and that it would not stop anyone in Australia, white or colored, vidual citizens to determine - not the Govfrom bringing in relatives as migrants. He said that migration was a matter for indi.ernment, mind you, but individual citizens - and that a Labor government would decide only the total intake. If the Leader of the Opposition was correctly reported, it is clear that he would abrogate the present migration policy, which is aimed at building a homogeneous society in Australia. The present migration policy is a great tribute to the right honourable member for Melbourne, who, as a relatively junior Minister, first introduced it in 1946. The effect of this sound policy will be felt for generations to come. It will still be a monument to his sound judgment in days which he and probably most of us may not see. 
The Government's present migration policy has done much to bring progress, prosperity and development to Australia. Migrants have brought great skills to this country. They have helped Australia grow. At the end of the war our population was something like 7 million. Today it is over 13 million and we still have a homogeneous population. If Australia is to become a great nation we must continue to increase our population, and the best way to do this is to continue our present assisted migration policy. At present we are bringing in 140,000 migrants a year, 10,000 of whom are non-European. This is a humane policy aimed at avoiding racial tensions such as we have seen develop in other countries, countries which have adopted a laissezfaire attitude to migration - a policy which is being advocated by the Leader of the Opposition at the present time. Our immigration policy is not based on any strange idea that, because our colour is white, we are superior to someone whose colour is black or something else. It is based on keeping a homogeneous population and avoiding the tensions which inevitably occur when people of different races, traditions and cultures are indiscriminately thrown together. 
There are 2 basic reasons why Australia's immigration policy should continue in its present form. One is that this policy has been proven. It has been largely responsible for making Australia the great nation which it is today. But there is another reason that is equally as - no, certainly more - important. I believe it is more important because it is a moral reason. We have a vast continent that is capable of supporting much more of the world's population. With the techniques of future science it would be a bold man who would set a figure of limitation on the population that Australia could carry in future years. We have most certainly a moral duty to fake a greater share of the world's population. We may not be prepared to do this now but it should be remembered that we may not always have a choice as to whom we do take. So let us continue to encourage and assist as many people to come to Australia as we can absorb, provided we can absorb them as far as is possible into a homogeneous society, a society which is not only in the interests of Australians but also of migrants themselves. It is most disturbing to learn that the Leader of the Opposition would scrap Australia's assisted migration scheme if he ever became Prime Minister of this country. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Luchetti)  - I call the honourable member for Prospect. 
Motion (by  Mr Giles)  proposed. 
That the question be now put. . . . 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN - The question is: 'That the question be now put'. 
Or Klugman - I do not want to make a personal explanation. I just want to quote a few figures. It will take me only a minute to do so. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 

 Dr KLUGMAN (Prospect)- by leaveEarlier tonight the Minister for Immigration  (Dr Forbes)  made the point that if the Australian Labor Party's proposals were implemented we would not get any good Nordic or Aryan immigrants which he prefers. I am not one who makes differentiations, but to illustrate how little the Minister knows about his Department I wish to draw the attention of the House to an answer he gave to me on 19th September - just over a week ago - in which he informed me that the number of personal nominees - the sort of people we are talking about - coming from the United Kingdom during the last 5 years has averaged approximately 40,000 a year. This has been at a time when there has been no great advantage to people who wanted to come to Australia from the United Kingdom in being nominated. I submit that the Minister does not read the answers he signs; that he is not aware what is going on in the Department; and that he is completely wrong on this issue as he is on most other issues. 
Department of the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts 
Proposed expenditure, $43,411,000. 
Progress reported. 
Can the Minister for Trade and Industry confirm the reports in this morning's Press about a $60m sale of wheat to the People's Republic of China? Will the Minister point out to the Leader of the Opposition and the honourable member for Dawson how wrong they were in their often repeated claims that the People's Republic of China would not buy wheat from Australia unless we established diplomatic relations with this country? 
There are few issues in recent months that have been spoken of with more emotion than the issue of overseas investment in Australia. I think my colleague the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  who is the Labor Party's shadow Treasurer, painted a rather gloomy picture, particularly towards the end of his speech - a rather fearful one which, I think, was slightly exaggerated. We all have been told Australians will become a nation of wage earners working for absentee landlords if we are not very careful with overseas investment. We have heard frightening words like 'foreign takeovers'; we have heard expressions like 'selling a bit of the farm' and 'having tummies tickled' and all these statements have tended to conjure up in the mind of the Australian community the picture of some giant ogre from overseas advancing to destroy us with one huge gulp. But overseas investment is necessary for a developing country such as ours. We most certainly would not have reached the stage of development we have reached today without it. The United States would certainly not be the super industrial power which it is today had she, at a similar stage in her development, not received substantial investment from Europe and elsewhere. 
In the past there has been a certain reluctance on the part of some Australian investors to invest in the development of their own country. Not long ago I read in a Japanese journal a statement by a Japanese businessman that his company had hoped for some Australian investment in a development project which they were undertaking in this country, but that Aus.tralian participation had been far below that which his company would have liked. So before we get too carried away on the wave of emotion against foreign investment in Australia, let us realise that it is a necessity if this country is to grow, maintain high standards of living for its people, and develop into the great nation which will ultimately be its destiny. 
But having said this, do not let us delude ourselves into thinking that all foreign investment, on any terms, is in the best interest of Australia or the Australian people. It is for this reason that the Government has laid down certain guidelines in the statement presented in this House by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  on Tuesday night. The benefits which the Australian economy will receive from the Government's new guidelines can be essentially summed up under 2 headings; Firstly, by controlling the flow of overseas capital into Australia it will make possible a more effective management of the economy; and secondly, it will establish a set of criteria with which overseas companies must comply in order to make their investment in this country acceptable. 
The government's action to deal with the problems created by overseas control of Australia's industry and resources has been sound, objective and devoid of emotionalism. It will help to maintain the balance so necessary in our financial and commercial system. I have been one who has always welcomed overseas investment in Australia, provided it did not create a monopoly controlled from outside this country. I have always taken the view that even if overseas capital gained a majority holding in an Australian company, this was not necessarily bad, provided that company did not have a monopoly of that type of trade in Australia. Such an overseas investment in this country would undoubtedly mean a capital profit for the Australian investor and at the same time release that capital of the Australian investor for investment in other developmental projects. But the net effect would be that, overall, Australia would be better off. 
The Government, by its sane approach to the problems created by overseas investment, has coped - I believe very sensibly - with the problems created without overreacting to some of the hysteria one hears on this subject. The Prime Minister himself has shown the need for Government action by pointing to the way in which the inflow of capital from abroad has grown in recent years, from approximately $800m in 1969-70 to more than $ 1,800m in 1971-72. If the Government had not taken action it is likely that the figure would have reached $2,000m by the end of this financial year. By setting up these 2 yardsticks and the 5 criteria against which foreign takeover bids must prove their acceptability, the Government has very realistically recognised the need for control but at the same time it has recognised that we do not want to turn our backs on overseas capital which will create in Australia employment, expertise and new industries. The Government's action is not hasty or illconsidered. Postwar investment in Australia has amounted to more than $ 10,263m in the space of 23 years, with the result that Australia's overseas reserves now amount to over $4,000m. The action taken by the Government is both timely and necessary. 
In taking the steps that it has taken, the Government has of necessity had to balance the economic benefits which Australia receives from investment from overseas against the economic disadvantages of such investment. In a developing country such as Australia, capital is a scarce commodity and foreign investment, either direct or portfolio, supplements capital provided from domestic savings. It thus allows a speedier rate of economic development than we could otherwise achieve, unless of course we are prepared to consume less out of current income. In addition it brings superior techniques and skills, and these spread to other local firms through the example set, the competition provided, the advice to suppliers and customers and the movement of staff from one company to another. It is an important source of product improvement. Overseas firms may also have certain affiliations or contacts overseas which give them an entry to export markets which previously may not have been available to Australian firms. So as well as bringing in capital, direct foreign investment may well bring with it a package of management, products, technology and market access. The Government probably also receives additional tax revenue. 
However, one of the basic fears about foreign investment is that by bringing productive resources and facilities in Australia under foreign control there is a possibility that decisions made in the interests of a foreign company or foreign government may not always be in the interest of Australia. We had an example of this when the United States Government prohibited the Ford company's subsidiary in Canada from producing trucks for export to Communist China, even though there was considerable unemployment in Canada's motor vehicle industry at that time. The United States also endeavoured to prevent a subsidiary company of International Business Machines in France from selling a computer to the French Government for its nuclear programme. A foreign government could also call on its overseas companies to repatriate more of their profits or to use only materials produced in their parent country. In the case of a decline in world demand, a parent country could curtail or even close down production of its subsidiary irrespective of the economic effects in the country the subsidiary is in. 
So both advantages and disadvantages can accrue from the inflow of overseas capital into Australia although in the past there have been few economic costs of foreign investment in this country. The main opposition to overseas capital has been mainly on nationalistic or social grounds. However, the Government feels that some controls on capital inflow are now necessary and it has endeavoured to eradicate where possible the disadvantages without interfering with the good effects. It has taken a bold step in laying down these guidelines and I believe the Government deserves credit for recognising the sense in the argument for some control on the mighty flow of foreign investment from abroad. 
The estimate for the Department of Foreign Affairs for 1972-73 amounts to more than $105m of which $1,116,100 is the estimated cost of our representation at the United Nations. The United Nations General Assembly is at present meeting in New York for the 27th session and  out  Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr *N. H. Bowen)  has just returned from it. During the session Australia will be elected a .member of the Security Council. Australia is the candidate for the European group of nations and should be elected unopposed, lt is therefore an appropriate time to consider the significance of Australian membership. More than a quarter of it century has passed since the United Nations charter was signed in San Francisco. A gathering of more than 50 countries solemnly signed a document in the preamble of which they expressed their determination to spare future generations of mankind from the ravages of war. They undertook to maintain world peace, to suppress acts of aggression and' to settle international disputes by peaceful means, in accordance with the principles of justice and international law. 
Filled with optimism this group of nations envisaged the development of a system of collective international security, a system that the League of Nations had failed dismally to create after the First World War. At the time of its foundation members of the United Nations even talked of establishing a single united world society. Looking back over those 26 years of involved and lengthy discussions, at the lofty aspirations that the United Nations set for itself, it is obvious that there is a wide gap between the idealistic goals of the members at that time and the realities of the succeeding years. The honeymoon of the United Nations Organisation was short. Stalin's brand of aggressive communism left no hope that a concensus might be reached between the nations which would enable the United Nations to implement the spirit of the Charter. In the Security Council the frequent use of the veto by the Soviet Union served constantly to paralyse the organisation in matters concerning world security. 
As the post-war world shaped into 2 major confronting blocs, the possibilities for major constructive activity by ;he United Nations diminished. The operations of the world organisation became increasingly confined to those areas in which the direct interests of the super powers were not at stake, a limitation which could hardly be reconciled with the idealistic goals underlying the United Nations Charter. The United Nations now seems to have found its limited role. It has become almost solely a forum for discussion, not one for decision or legislation. The record of the world organisation in peace-keeping operations clearly demonstrates its limitations. If we exclude the Korean war in which the United Nations participation was secured only through the absence of the Soviet representative on the Security Council - a situation which is unlikely to occur again - the only major operations have been in the Congo and Cyprus. During the Suez crisis in 1956 the United Nations emergency forces were used in the Middle East when both Soviet and United States interests coincided. But, as the June war of 1967 was to demonstrate, this expedition had no lasting effect. In subsequent conflicts in the Middle East the United Nations has acted only peripherally and with little effect. In the Indo-China conflict - perhaps the most serious issue in international security since the end of the Second World War - the United Nations has played no role whatever. It is a sad commentary on the United Nations that most changes for the better in world security have taken place outside the world organisation. 
Sitting suspended from 6.13 to 8 p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting for dinner I was saying that most changes for the better in world security had taken place outside the United Nations. I would like to go on to say that the detente in relations between the Soviet Union and the United States owes nothing to the United Nations General Assembly or to the Security Council. One issue which posed a sudden serious threat to global security, the Cuba crisis, was settled by a direct contact between Washington and Moscow. This style of negotiation has continued. The United Nations has played no role in the winding down of the Vietnam war or in the contacts between American and Chinese leaders. In the IndoPakistani war the Security Council did, after much debate, reach a resolution urging a cease fire but only when the war had virtually come to the end desired by the Soviet Union. 
We must not allow the failure of the United Nations to play a significant role in the resolution of world conflicts and in peacekeeping operations to detract from the importance of the organisation. It is important that we should recognise its limitations and that we should appreciate that in the present state of international relations it is difficult to see how the United Nations can play other than its present role. Influence on matters concerning world security still remains the province of the great powers. It is obvious that if the United Nations is to play a major role in any particular issue it will almost certainly be at the specific request of the major powers - a situation which must automatically place the United Nations in a role of secondary importance. It was originally intended that the Security Council should occupy the role of the supreme tribunal of internatonal peace and security. However, for most of its life the Council has been rendered impotent by the veto. One need not reiterate here the United Nation's failure to act over the Munich assassinations, its failure to act against hijacking or its double standards of placing sanctions on Rhodesia for alleged racism but failing to act against Uganda. Its double standards were also apparent when the People's Republic of China was admitted to the United Nations because it was the effective government of the mainland, but Taiwan was expelled even though it was the effective government of Taiwan. 
It is into this forum that Australia will probably move within the next few weeks. However, it would be unrealistic to expect any dramatic changes. The presence of the People's Republic of China on the Security Council has meant that the trend will be towards more vetoes, more verbal confrontation and even less agreement than there has been in the past. As is already the case in the General Assembly, not all of the decisions of the Security Council will necessarily be in Australia's interests. Australian membership of the Security Council will therefore not necessarily mean that Australia will be contributing towards the improvement of world security, decisions on which will in the future, as in the past, probably be taken outside the Council's chambers. The significance of our membership should not however be discounted. The Security Council is an important forum for debate and for the expression of views. It will give Australian representatives a unique opportunity to familiarise themselves more fully with the present trends in great power relationships, particularly as they impinge upon the prospects of security in the Asian region. 
But do not let us delude ourselves into believing that the decisions of the United Nations will always be just decisions, that they will always be moral decisions or that they will always be the right decisions. The decisions will be those of a number of nations, some large, some small, using the United Nations largely for their own political ends. It does much good work through its agencies and it is, as I have said, an excellent forum for discussion. However do not let us fool ourselves into believing that it is anything more than that. There is only one country to stand up for Australia's interests, and that is Australia. One would like to believe that we could put our complete trust in the United Nations. However, like Oliver Cromwell, who put his trust in God, we should also keep our powder dry. 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. I ask: As the Government has identified a revival of consumer spending as holding the key to stronger economic growth and reduced unemployment, can the Treasurer inform the House what the latest trends are in consumer spending and what his expectations are as to the future trend? 
Is the Minister for Social Services aware that some pensioners are inconvenienced by the fact that their travel concession certificates become defaced or illegible through frequent use? Has his Department any plans to assist pensioners to avoid this inconvenience? 
 I direct my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. 1 refer to the recent proposal of the United Nations Stockholm conference on the environment for the setting up of atmospheric monitoring stations. Is the Minister able to say whether such a station will be built in Australia? 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I seek leave to make a short statement. 
In the absence of the  Chairman  of the Public Accounts Committee, the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham),  1 should like to associate the Government members of this Committee with the non-partisan remarks which have been made by the Acting  Chairman,  the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford).  Since I became a member of this Committee in this 27th Parliament we have had 2 chairmen. One was the honourable member for Cook  (Mr Dobie),  who is at present in the House sitting close to me and whose services as  Chairman  of She Committee unfortunately were lost because he took up very distinguished service as Assistant Minister assisting the Prime Minister. He has been much missed on the Committee. The honourable member for North Sydney was appointed in his place. Wo have had from the honourable member for North Sydney very excellent service as our  Chairman  as you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  would agree. One cannot forget the excellent work done by our Acting  Chairman,  the honourable member for Adelaide, during the absence overseas at present of the  Chairman,  who is representing Australia at a Conference of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association. 
I did not realise that you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  would be occupying the chair when I was making these remarks. I think it would be very remiss of me if I did not mention the distinguished service which you have given over a very long period from 1956 to 1972 as a member of this Committee. As a member of the Committee for only some 3 years, I appreciate very greatly listening to your experience, your wisdom and your judgment on this Committee. I think we should also pay tribute to a former very valuable member of the Committee who is no longer a member of this Parliament I refer to  Senator Dame  Ivy Wedgwood, of Victoria, whom I have known since I was a Young Liberal many years ago. Dame Ivy was a member of the Public Accounts Committee from 1954 until 1971. I think Dame Ivy was one who, when I first came on to the Committee, made me very much aware of the extent to which the Public Accounts Committee was the watchdog of public expenditure. 
I think that one of the things that impresses one about a Committee such as the Public Accounts Committee is that one realises after one leaves this place, where we have our parries and our thrusts, which of course is quite right in a democracy, and where we put forward our different points of view, that irrespective of which Party we belong to we know we are all there to do a joh. I suppose that the listening public who hear us speak in debates in this place on occasions may wonder how we can all work so harmoniously together on a committee such as the Public Accounts Committee for the good of the community. But this is so. I think it is one of the great things about democracy and about our parliamentary system that this occurs. 
It only remains for me to express my thanks and the thanks of the Government members on this Committee to the Secretary of the Public Accounts Committee,  Mr David  Reid, and his staff and to associate myself with the remarks made by the honourable member for Adelaide about the work which has been done and the assistance which has been given to the Com mittee by the observers who regularly come to Committee hearings. I thank all those people for making the Committee work so harmoniously. I have enjoyed contributing in what little way I could to this Committee. I feel it does a wonderful job. I repeat that we are all very grateful for the work done by the Secretary,  Mr David  Reid, and his staff. 
I refer the Prime Minister to his recent remarks when he said that he believed in open government and in keeping the Australian people informed of what goes on in government. I ask him: When does he intend to release the formula on which Australia recognised the People's Republic of China? How does it differ from the formula on which Canada recognised the People's Republic of China some time ago? 
I am very pleased to join in this debate to make my first speech in the Parliament as an Opposition member. I have had the pleasure of serving with you,  Mr Speaker,  on the Public Accounts Committee and 1 have travelled overseas with you on a delegation to Asia. I feel that I have, been as closely associated with you as 1 have been with any other member of the former opposition. I have grown to respect and to like you, and 1 am sure that you will do a fine job as  Speaker  of this House. 
You hold the office of  Speaker  of this House for the very reason that Australia has had a change of government for the first time in 23 years. In the election campaign of 1972 we were told by the Labor Party that it was time for a change and, for better or for worse, a change it is. The election of a Labor Government was a personal victory for the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and one must congratulate him and his Parry on the win that they have had. One cannot deny that if democracy is to work it is proper that there should be a change of government from time to time. Probably one of the reasons why the Minister for Overseas Trade and Minister for Secondary Industry,  Dr Cairns,  led the mobs to demonstrate in the streets was a certain frustration at not being able to get his point of view accepted at the ballot box. 
In December last the Labor Party presented the Australian people with a campaign of soft sell. We were given a campaign of gimmicks, T-shirts, slogans and singing commercials^ - and it worked. The Australian Labor Party knew it was selling itself on a slogan. Many voters now feel, however, that they may have been sold a pup. The climb to power by the Labor Party started in 1966, the year in which Harold Holt led the Liberal and  Country  Parties to the greatest victory of any Australian government since Federation. In the aftermath of that devastating defeat, the Labor Party chose as its leader the present Prime Minister, and a good choice he appeared to be at that time. He was a man of no mean talent; he was educated; he was presentable; and apparently be was quite moderate in his views. In short, he could be sold to the Australian people much more easily than some of his more traditional Labor Party contemporaries. From the outset he realised that the Labor Party had been kept from office, by the fears of the Australian people of the left wing elements of his Party and left wing unions, particularly in Victoria. So he set out to put his house in order. 
To do this he gathered around htm an expert team of architects, comprising a federal secretary, top public relations and advertising men and, of course, a first class speech writer. Between them they set about redesigning and re-structuring the house so as to give it a more modern and contemporary look - one which would appeal. But there were hazards and problems associated with the reconstruction, especially in relation to the many demarcation disputes between his sub-contractors in general and those from Victoria in particular. 
He found it particularly difficult to deal with the Hartley-Crawford partnership in the south. He and his  Deputy,  the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard),  are still having the same problems today. Nonetheless, after many modifications the reconstruction was completed and the house was advertised for rent in December 1972. Indeed, it looked a fair proposition by comparison with the longestablished, somewhat older, Liberal PartyCountry Party home across the street. 
So the tenants, feeling that they were exercising sound judgment, called in the removalists and installed a Labor Government. The present Prime Minister became what we might call the new landlord. That was only 3 months ago and already ominous signs are beginning to appear. In Victoria in particular, where most of the papering over was done, cracks are beginning to show through. The Left is no longer prepared to be silent as it was prior to the election. Television viewers only last week saw the attempt by  Mr Hartley  of the Victorian Executive of the Australian Labor Party to depict the  Deputy  Prime Minister and his  Deputy  Leader as weak because he would not bow to the left wing of the ALP Victorian Executive on the issue of United States bases in Australia. That battle is still to be fought out finally at the Federal Conference of the Australian Labor Party this year. 
But back in December when the Australian Labor Party was seeking to become the Government it made a promise of 4 weeks annual leave for public servants. It failed, however, to emphasise what we are now told is Labor's policy, namely, that a Labor Government would show preference to unionists. In other words, if public servants want the extra week's leave they must join a union, whether they like it or not. This, of course, is only an extension of the policy of the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions,  Mr Hawke,  who some time ago blackmailed retailers into employing only union labour. So, to keep his job, the shop assistant was forced to join a union. Now it is the public servant's turn. 
The unions consequently grow more powerful and more wealthy and at election time they have more money to donate to the ALP to keep a Labor Government in power. One can well understand the feelings of a conscripted unionist who belongs to and works for some other Party, knowing that part of his wages is going to support and to keep the ALP in office. It is a strange reversal for a Party which opposes conscription for the defence of Australia to seek to justify conscription of wage earners into unions. The latest announcement is that Federal Government contracts will be restricted to firms that are on good terms with the unions. What kind of blackmail is this? 
The Government is in fact saying to the industry: 'If you upset the unions we will see to it that you will not continue to receive Government contracts'. In other words industry must bow to the unions or go bankrupt. No firm will dare to stand up to the unions, however unjust the demands made upon it. This means in effect that the unions will allocate all Federal Government contracts. What a sorry state of affairs we have reached. The Government contracts should be awarded to firms which can do the most satisfactory job at the cheapest price. The allocation of contracts should have absolutely nothing to do with a firm's attitude to unionism, compulsory or otherwise. For some time the Labor Party has promoted the idea that it has thrown off its blue collar image. The electorate was assured that the Party was no longer just a sectional party and that we had nothing to fear from militant unionism. The fact is that the Government intends to elevate the trade union movement to a unique position in the community. This is the result of the amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act foreshadowed by the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron). 
This legislation will provide that unions will be free of sanctions, free from action for tort and free from prosecutions for breaches of contract or conspiracy which may arise in connection with an industrial dispute. The dry rot which is evident in the Labor house is the result of a long term sickness in 2 major areas - the trade union movement's influence on the political wing of the Party and the Party's attitude to defence and foreign policy. It is of interest that both issues have played a prominent part in the Government's performance since it took office. If ever it was suggested that the major parties were basically the same, certainly the Government's actions on defence and foreign policy must explode that myth. 
In just 3 months we have witnessed a retreat towards isolationism, an attempt by a section of the Labor Party to destroy the American alliance, and the intensification of a campaign to terminate the Five Power Defence Arrangements. If there is one consistent thread running through the present Government's foreign and defence policies it has been its actions to embrace the communist countries of the world, whilst maintaining a distinct move away from our former friends and allies. It has been a policy of thumbs to the nose to Britain and the United States. As far as Britain is concerned, the oath of allegiance to the Queen is to be scrapped and a search is to be made for a national anthem to replace 'God Save The Queen'.  I  suppose the next step by this Government could  well  be the removal of the Union Jack from the Australian flag. But the attitude of this Government to Britain is nothing compared to the bitter and vindictive attacks made by some of its senior Ministers upon the United States. Ignoring the principle of Cabinet Government whereby only the Minister responsible for foreign affairs, in this case the Prime Minister, expresses the Government's view on that subject, 3 senior Ministers saw fit to have their say. Criticism of the United States policy is one thing but the hysterical nature of the outbursts deeply shocked not only the Australian people but friendly nations around the world. 
Let us take a look at what these Ministers had to say. In the 'Sydney Morning Herald' the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  called on Australian unions to boycott the United States and referred to the United States Government as maniacs. The Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  called the United States  President  arrogant and a hypocrite and referred to the policy of the United States Government as thuggery. Of course, the Minister for Overseas Trade and Minister for Secondary Industry  (Dr J. P. Cairns)  declared his distrust of the United States  President  and issued a statement in conjunction with  Senator Brown  of Victoria saying that  President  Nixon was insensible to world opinion and contemptuous of world leaders. At the same time as these outbursts were being made the left wing Australian maritime unions were busy banning the loading and unloading of United States ships in Australian ports but they were soon forced to back down when the United States unions used the same tactics on Australian ships, lt is also of some concern to read in the Sydney Morning Herald' an article by Roy McCartney, who is the newspaper's staff correspondent in Washington, in which he said that Australia's relations with the United States were disturbed and the Government's words and actions were blamed. The Washington correspondent of the Melbourne Sun', Peter Costigan, wrote an article which appeared under a big photograph of the Minister for Overseas Trade and the heading The  President  Is Not Amused'. I would like to read from this article because it is so true of what this Government has done to wreck Australia's relations with the United States and friendships which have existed for many years. Peter Costigan in his article said: 
The lifting of the Australian maritime unions ban on American shipping ended the worst week ever in U.S.-Australian diplomatic relations. 
He- 
That is, President Nixon - has already acted angrily against the Australian Government . . . 
The maritime unions' ban did not bother the  President  personally. Whether he directed it or just sat by while it happened, he regarded the counter ban by American East coast watersiders as a satisfactory tit for tat. 
Nor was he that much bothered by the strong criticism of him by men such as  Dr Cairns, Mr Cameron  and  Mr Uren.  What did bother him was that they were Australian Cabinet ministers. 

 Mr Nixon took swift and, symbolically, impressive revenge on his first critic - Trade Minister  Dr Cairns. 
At the time  Dr Cairns  attacked the U.S. bombing of Hanoi and declared that he did not trust this American  President,  Australian negotiators were trying to win a $6m trade deal from the U.S. They lost. 
Costigan goes on to say: 
In the Jong term, meaning the next four years, Australia - for good or bad - has lost its 'very favoured nation' treatment in trade as far as Richard Nixon is concerned. 
He could not and still does not understand . . . how three senior Australian Cabinet ministers could have attacked American policy and the U.S. President's personal integrity without speaking for the Australian Government. 
Such a thing has rarely happened in American history without the offending Cabinet Minister being sacked without ceremony. 
I might add that it has not happened in Australia before either. Costigan goes on to say: 
The White House has abandoned plans for  Mr Whitlam  to visit Washington early, this year. Also abandoned are tentative plans for  Mr Nixon  to visit Australia this year. 
And it's goodbye to those powerful nudges from the White House that helped Australia in trade matters in recent years. 
There is now no chance that we can persuade the U.S. to lower or eliminate its punitive tariffs on our wool. We needed White House support for that. 
Our valuable share of the American sugar quota is in jeopardy, because the White House is not likely to argue on our behalf with the powerful men in the Congress who decide these things. 
Costigan ends by saying: 
. thanks to the comments - widely published here and read in the White House - of Ministers Cairns, Cameron and Uren, we have angered the most powerful man in the world. 
And so this Government has brought AustralianUnited States relations to their lowest ebb ever. When one thinks of those days back in 1942 when young American servicemen crossed the Pacific in their hordes to become our comrades in arms to defend Australia from the Japanese, one feels very sad indeed. Since this Government took office we have experienced the most indecent rush to recognise the 3 communist countries of China, East Germany and North Vietnam, with communist North Korea soon to be added to the happy throng. There is no doubt that recognition of these countries had to come - no one will dispute that. I have always been one who has believed that it is better to talk out problems rather than try to ignore them. As Churchill once said: 'It is better to jaw jaw than war war', and this is, of course, true. But a more astute statesman would have found a more astute formula for the recognition of Communist China. Instead of capitulating completely to the Chinese demands, as our Prime Minister did even before he reached office, a wiser Prime Minister would have found an accommodation similar to that which  President  Nixon has negotiated, that is, the setting up of a trade mission in the initial stages to fulfil much the same functions as an embassy. The United States still enjoys excellent relations with Taiwan, but the way in which our Taiwanese friends were booted out of Australia at a moment's notice after years of friendship and trade will leave a dark blot on the moral integrity of the foreign policy of this country for many years to come. 
And we should add to all this the immense step which this Government has taken towards centralisation in the spheres of housing, health, education and urban development, to name only a few, and we have a very unhappy picture indeed. But what sort of men make up the Government that is controlling Australia today? I suppose a man's religion or lack of it is his own affair, but it did not go unnoticed in the Press and elsewhere that 12 Labor members, approximately 20 per cent of their number in this Chamber, refused to swear on the Bible when being sworn into Parliament. There was not one Liberal or Country Party member who adopted that attitude. Perhaps it was also indicative of the newer breed of Labor men that a number of its members were reported by the Press to have refused to shake the hand of the Governor-General, a former colleague and the Queen's representative in this country- 
I was stating only what has already been openly commented upon in the Press. The Minister for Overseas Trade and Minister for Secondary Industry has expressed concern that decisions of the present Government are not Cabinet oriented. The Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  found it necessary to go to the Press about the export prices of north Queensland minerals, a situation which put him on a collision course with the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson).  This, together with the outbursts of the other Ministers, only points to the fact that they do not understand the concept of ministerial responsibility. It also emphasises the underlying tensions which exist in the Labor Party and which will grow bigger as time goes on. 
There is no doubt that 'landlord' Whitlam will very soon need to make an on site inspection of his house. However, he will at best be able to make only superficial repairs because the basic problems lie within the existing framework. The landlord's problem is not only that he will have to contend with a structure that is falling apart slowly and surely but also that somehow he must find the money to finance the extensions that he has promised the tenants. Already he is faced with a record deficit. He knows that increasing the rent will prove fatal. Across the street, the older, more stable home of the Liberal and Country Parties has undergone a major restructure. Plans to incorporate ideas and materials which are right for the 1970s are being implemented. At least the Liberals have the benefit of a framework which is sound yet flexible enough to adjust to the new look. The electorate is realising that its decision to change homes because of the promise of a few optional extras was not a wise one. Let us all hope that the electorate will be intelligent enough not to renew the lease when it expires in 1975. 

Order! Does the Minister claim to have been misrepresented? 

 Mr KILLEN (Moreton) - I wish to make a personal explanation. 

Order! Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
I address my question to the Minister for the Capital Territory. Has the Minister ridden in a taxi in Canberra recently? Is he aware that residents and tourists in Canberra can wait up to 2 hours after ringing for a cab and up to half an hour at a taxi rank? Also, is the Minister aware that licences for a single taxi change hands at approximately $25,000 per licence? Does this not suggest an unhealthy monopoly situation? Will the Minister do something about it? 

Order! At the moment there is no amendment before the Chair. No amendment has been moved. 
I thank the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  for cutting his speech short so that I could speak in this debate. I know that he had a lot that he wanted to say. I will be the last  speaker  in this debate. If I am cut off halfway through my speech or halfway through a sentence, the people listening to the broadcast and the people who will read Hansard will know that I have been cut off because of the gag put on this debate by honourable members on the Government side who are so embarrassed by this issue that they are stifling all debate on it. 
I was just explaining that, if I am cut off in the middle of a sentence, that will be the reason. Before the last election the Australian people were assured by the present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  that abortion on demand was not an election issue. Yet within the first 6 sitting days of this Parliament 2 newly-elected Labor members from Victoria - the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr McKenzie)  and the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Lamb)  - gave notice thai they would introduce this Bill to legalise abortion on demand. We have all heard the story around the lobbies that this Bill is really the brainchild of several Ministers of this Government and that, in order not to involve the Government as such, 2 front men had to be found to do the hack work of proposing and seconding the Bill. 
This Bill has the support of no less a personage that the Prime Minister himself. I am sorry that the Prime Minister was not able to speak in this debate. 
All of the things I have said are facts and, as you have ruled,  Mr Speaker,  there is no substance in the point of order. The fact is that the Prime Minister supports abortion on demand. I am very sorry that, due to the Premiers Conference today, he has not had the opportunity to speak in this debate. It is not only here that this matter will be propounded. In Victoria we could very well have a similar Bill coming forward after the next State election if the Labor Party should win.  Mrs Coxsedge,  a Labor Party candidate for Balwyn, has stated she would introduce a similar bill if elected. 
1 am aware that some Labor Party members oppose this Bill, but the Bill emanates from 2 members of that Party. I do not think there are many people who would deny that, if a mother's life is in serious danger, the mother's life must be saved. The law relating to abortion is already sufficiently clear in that regard. Death due to childbirth is a very rare occurrence in these days of modern medicine. Under the ruling of  Mr Justice  Menhennit, abortion can be legally carried out by a qualified medical practitioner if the life or mental or physical health of the mother are in danger. The proposed McKenzieLamb legislation is far wider and far more extreme in its provisions. 
Originally the Bill provided for abortion on demand up to 16 weeks of pregnancy, not on medical grounds, not to save the life of the mother, but for no other purpose than that for some reason or other which she need not disclose, the mother did not want to go through with the pregnancy. Because of the vast outcry from concerned citizens throughout the Commonwealth the Bill was at first watered down to allow for abortion only up to 12 weeks instead of the 16 weeks originally planned. But it soon became obvious that a sufficient number of members was not prepared to fly in the face of public opinion to enable the passage of the Bill. So another subterfuge had to be found to get around the defeat of the Bill, and one perhaps senses the astute hand of the Prime Minister here. It is the old story of 2 steps forward and one step back. But one is still one step forward after the procedure. Even if this Bill is not passed - I sincerely hope that it will not be passed - and if a committee of inquiry is set up. that would be one step forward towards the situation which the abortion on demand people wish to achieve. 
The Melbourne 'Age' published a letter to the editor the other day from a person called K. Shaw of Carlton. It said: 

 Sir. It is very infuriating to realise that it  is  men who are largely responsible for the campaign opposing the Medical Practice Clarification Act, and men who will vote on the Bill. The person whom this Bill will affect most, the woman, has almost no say in deciding what control she has over her body. 
I would say only this in reply to K. Shaw of Carlton: There is someone whom this Bill concerns and will affect far more than the woman, and that is the child who will have his or her life denied under the provisions of the Bill. There is no doubt in my mind or in the minds of most doctors that the baby's life commences and that the baby begins to grow from the moment of conception. Even the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  admitted that last night on an Australian Broadcasting Commission program on which we both appeared. At 4 weeks after conception the heart of the baby is beating. At 7 weeks his face is completely formed; he has 20 milk teeth buds; he has eyelashes and eyebrows. At 10 weeks the baby can move himself, and at 11 weeks he can even suck his thumb. It is at about this stage, and even later, that this Bill will allow the life of the baby to be terminated, for no other reason than that the mother does not want to go through with the pregnancy. 
I cannot see how any Christian who purports to believe that God creates life can believe that anyone other than God should take that life away. Not even the mother should have that right. Even the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  who is a doctor of medicine and the Minister for the Environment and Conservation in the Federal Government and a strong supporter of the Bill, has been honest enough to say in the Press on 17th November 1972: 
Some people say abortion is murder. I am inclined to think it is. I can see that it is destroying life. 
Yet, this Minister supports abortion on demand and he will apparently be voting for this Bill today. He even called on the proabortionists in a Press release last night to harass members who vote against it. There has been an attempt by some sections of the Press and some pro-abortionists to brand the anti-abortion on demand movement as some sort of sinister plot by the Roman Catholic Church. It is true that Catholics are concerned at the provisions of this Bill, and rightly so. But so too are the Anglican archbishops, the Baptists and people of many faiths. Onlylast Thursday the Presbyterian Assembly, the Church of which I am a communicant member, rejected a recommendation for the liberalisation of the present laws relating to abortion. 
The statement made by the honourable member for Diamond Valley in his speech that the position was otherwise is not correct. The report of the sub-committee was rejected and sent back to that committee for further consideration. Fifty-nine Church leaders of all faiths have signed a statement appealing to politicians, organisations and citizens to protest against this Bill. The feeling against the Bill is not confined to any one section of the community; it runs high and wide, and is shared by all concerned - men and women, labourers and professional men, doctors and lawyers, rich and poor and young and old. Let us look at some of the arguments raised by those who are in favour of abortion on demand. They talk about unwanted children. There are no unwanted children; there are only unwanting parents. Even if the parents do not want them, there are thousands of childless couples crying out to adopt children in the hope of building a family. Recently an article appeared in the 'Melbourne Herald" which stated: 'The adoption list to close' and went on to say that there were not enough children to meet the demands of parents who wanted to adopt them. 
We have been told that as illegal abortions occur we might as well legalise them. This argument is as specious as saying that as pot is smoked or as burglaries or murders occur, we might as well legalise them also. The figures in fact show that since the legislation of abortion on demand in Britain the incidence of backyard abortions has shown no decrease. Then we are told that only women should be responsible for the decision to destroy the foetus. What about the father? It is his child equally with the mother. What about the child who may be a mother or father one day if allowed to live out the span of her or his natural life? To say that women should have the say as to whether abortion on demand is legalised is as ridiculous as saying that only criminals should say what facilities should be provided to prisoners in gaols. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr Mathews' amendment)  stand part of the question. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 Mr N. H. BOWEN (Parramatta)- I ask for leave to amend my amendment to the motion for the second reading of this Bill by omitting from the words proposed to be inserted the words 'not declining to give the Bill a second reading speech and'. The motion would then read: 
That all the words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: this House, while accepting that the question of Sovereignty should be determined, (a) deplores the method adopted by the Government, of proceeding without consultation with the States especially in relation to the code which is contained in Part III of the Bill, and (b) is of opinion that consultations with the States for a co-operative regime for controlling the exploitation of the resources and generous royalty distribution to the States should commence forthwith.'. 
Is the Treasurer aware that the Committee for Economic Development of Australia, an organisation established by a wide variety of leading companies to encourage the objective study of economic and other matters, is providing a $5,000 grant known as the CEDA/ Rank/Xerox grant for the study of subjects relating to the Australian economy bv economists from universities, business and the public sector? Will he look favourably at participation by officers of his own Department, which includes many leading economists? If so, will he encourage his colleagues to do likewise? Will he give encouragement to other organisations to undertake similar measures? 
Probably my first memory of a political crisis occurring was in 1939, when the then AttorneyGeneral in the Lyons Government, R. G. Menzies, resigned from Cabinet because he claimed that the Government had not honoured its election promise to bring in a national superannuation scheme. Thirty-four years later we now see the beginning of such a scheme coming into effect in this Budget with the abolition of the means test for those over 75 years of age. I have been one who, during my time in this House, has consistently advocated the abolition of the means test and the setting up of a national superannuation scheme, a scheme to which all will contribute during their working lives and from which all will benefit in retirement, not as a handout, but as a right. (Quorum formed) 
I should like to thank my friend, the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson),  who was obviously so ashamed that the Labor 
Party Benches were empty that he called a quorum so that his colleagues could come to hear what I have to say. I am sure he did not do it in order to take up the time to prevent my being able to get over all the points I would wish. I know how hard it must be for the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  who was the former Minister for Social Services and who fought so hard for the introduction of such a scheme as has been brought in by the present Government. It must give him considerable satisfaction, however, to see a scheme, of which he is the virtual author, introduced by this Government. I am glad that the honourable member for Mackellar has come into the chamber. I know how much effort he put into bringing forth this scheme and I am glad to see that the Labor Party has learned from his example and has emulated it. Both the former Government and the present Government promised in their policy speeches that the means test would be abolished within 3 years. I congratulate the Government upon taking this first step in honouring that promise. 
However, like most other honourable members, I was concerned that this Budget made no attempt to deal with the fundamental problems with which this nation is now faced - those of runaway prices and crippling inflation. When the present Government took office last December inflation was running at about 4.5 per cent per annum. It was not the best of situations but it was one with which we were able to live. Now, after 9 or 10 months of Labor administration the rate of inflation is estimated at about 13.5 per cent and some people predict that by the end of the year it could well reach 20 per cent. Inflation has certainly reached alarming proportions and firm steps should have been taken in the Budget to combat it. Inflation is not peculiar to Australia. It is a world wide problem and it would be unfair to blame the rapid increase solely on the actions of the present Government. However it is true to say that the policies of the Government have done little to constrain inflation and have, in fact, aggravated it. 
One can well understand the frustrations of the Government and of various Ministers, such as the Minister for Urban and Regional Developmen  (Mr Uren),  Ministers who have been in Opposition for so long and who suddenly find themselves in a position to achieve those things which they have desired to do, but this does not excuse the bringing down at this time of a Budget which does nothing to contain inflation and which, on the contrary, will add to inflationary pressures. The Budget papers themselves forecast wages to rise by 13 per cent in 1973-74 whilst productivity is expected to grow by only 3.5 per cent, which implies notionally an inflation rate of 9.5 to 10 per cent over the year. Apparently the Government has decided quite deliberately to live with a 10 per cent inflation rate in order to promote its policies and it has framed the Budget accordingly. 
One finds it hard to understand the Treasurer presenting such a Budget at this time. As a graduate in commerce he must know that in times of inflation the proper application of Keynesian economics demands that increases in government expenditure should be kept to an absolute minimum and that there should be a considerable domestic surplus in government accounts. This Budget has been framed in the worst inflationary period for 20 years, yet it provides not for a surplus as the Keynesian theory requires but for a record deficit and the biggest increase in Government expenditure for 20 years. Obviously the Government decided against using the Budget to fight inflation, at least until after the Senate election early next year. The Government apparently reasons that by that time the economic situation will have become so dire that a horror mini-Budget, with all that that will ential, will be unavoidable. Having refused to take orthodox steps to fight inflation in the Budget, what has this Governement done or what does it intend to do at least to restore the economy to the position it was when it took office? 
One measure introduced in the Budget was the 25 per cent arbitrary across the board cuts in tariffs. The Government's announcement came like a bolt out of the blue following the release of figures which showed inflation running at 13.5 per cent. One leading businessman was quoted as saying: 'Someone in Canberra must have pressed ali the panic buttons at once', and that is exactly what happened. No one would argue had the Government, following a proper inquiry, reduced tariffs on specific  items  designed to increase competition and reduce prices of products in industries which, were largely responsible for the prices spiral. To cut all tariffs across the board without due heed to the effects may have 'been spectacular action, but it also bordered on the irresponsible. Reductions in the prices of imported cars, imported television sets, textiles and similar products will do little to counter the soaring meat and food prices, fares, rates, building costs, service charges and prices in all the other areas where inflation is running strongly. There is little doubt, however, that the tariff cuts will irreparably damage a number of Australian industries, such as the textile and footwear industries, which will find it impossible to compete with similar products from low wage Asian countries. This decision will throw thousands of employees in these industries out of work. It is all very well for the Government to say that these people will just have to readjust and find employment elsewhere. Readjustment is not easy, particularly for older employees who may be trained in no other trade. Readjustment may even mean selling one's house and moving to another area to gain employment. The whole manoeuvre was a panic one which will not only do little to alleviate the problem of inflation but which gives no consideration to the personal effect on the workers and the small businesses involved. To put people on unemployment relief is poor compensation for upsetting their lives. 
The 5 per cent revaluation of the Australian currency announced on Sunday will have the effect of reducing the prices of imports and of increasing the quantity of imports. It will also increase the price of our exports to other countries, reducing the amount of goods which we export and hence reducing our overseas balances. Once again, it was an ad hoc panic decision to make it appear that this is a government of action. But what was the effect? The Melbourne 'Sun' carried this headline yesterday: 
Black Day For Shares- $800m Down." Share prices fell sharply in a black day on the Australian stock exchanges yesterday. 
The people who own these shares are the little people who live in electorates such as Deakin and Corio. These are the people who are suffering by these arbitrary acts of the Government. It is said that most of these unhappy panic decisions could probably have been avoided had the Goverenment adopted a sound economic policy in the Budget. Another step taken by the Government was the setting up of the Prices Justification Tribunal. What value has this body, other than making it appear that something is being done? Even the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions has said that the organisation has no teeth. It can deal only with corporations with a turnover of more than $20m a year and it has no power to enforce its eventual decisions. It is just a costly propaganda exercise to make it appear that the Government is doing something. At the very best, the Prices Justification Tribunal can defer but not prevent price rises. 
Having refused to use the Budget to fight inflation, the Government now has the temerity to ask the States to hand over the power to control prices. As a rider, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has said that the Commonwealth would accept also the power to control incomes but he has carefully refused to commit the Government to using that power. It has since been leaked to the Press that legal experts are said to have told the Prime Minister that constitutional problems would prevent the successful exercise of controls over wages. We are told that it would conflict with the Commonwealth industrial power under which the arbitration system was established. One can well understand a Labor government which relies so heavily on the trade union movement for finance and support refusing to take any steps to control wages. But wages are a large part of production. The Budget Papers predict a 13 per cent rise in wages in 1973-74. If wages continue to rise at that rate, and prices are pegged, the situation will become chaotic. Black markets will develop and all sorts of shady practices will occur. 
A prices and incomes freeze is a drastic remedy for inflation. It can create more problems that it remedies and at the best can have only a short term effect. The Dean of Economics at Harvard University, Professor Galbraith, who is at present visiting Australia and who is a world authority on economic matters, has . stated publicly that a wage-price freeze would not miraculously cure Australia's inflation. Professor Galbraith has said that the 2 elements needed to combat inflation are increased taxation to dampen demand and a system of wage-price constraints. But the present Government has not taken the initiative either to dampen demand or to control wage costs. All it talks about is price control. Anyone who lived under the last socialist Labor Government from 1945 to 1949 with its rationing and its controls knows the evils inherent in such a policy. 
Inflation is a great social evil, and this Government will stand indicted for all time if it refuses to take action to contain it. Every sector of the community likes a wage gain and higher incomes, even members of Parliament, but what is the use if the increased income buys less and less, as is the position under the present Government? What does it profit the pensioners to receive a measly SI. 50 rise in the Budget only for it to be eaten away by inflation even before it reaches their pockets? What about those on superannuation or small fixed incomes who during a lifetime of work saved to provide for themselves to live in reasonable comfort in their retirement, only to find rising costs eating into their small resources? The heavy increases in this Budget of indirect taxes and charges on such things as petrol, cigarettes, soft drinks and spirits will hit the low wage earner, the pensioners and those on fixed incomes just as it will hit the wealthy. The only difference is that the wealthy are better equipped to absorb such charges. These charges are adding to the cost of living and are thus contributing to the inflationary spiral. We are already being told that, due to the increased petrol taxes, air fares and taxi fares will rise. 
Private companies which have been singled out to pay higher taxes will naturally pass these charges on to the consumer, again contributing to inflation. The higher tax on insurance companies will mean that the small person with an insurance policy will receive less by way of bonuses. Of course, the Labor Party probably does not care about these people who like to provide for their own comfort in their old age and do not want to be a charge on the state. Coupled with runaway inflation we are experiencing runaway bureaucracy. Already the boosting of ministerial and departmental empires is causing public concern. The proliferation of boards and committees which are flourishing under this Government all have to be staffed and serviced. Every minor matter now seems to be examined by some committee or other set up specifically for the purpose. While the work force will grow in the private sector by only 3i per cent in the coming year it is estimated that the Public Service will grow by somewhere between 7 per cent and 10 per cent. At the same time it is estimated that the total Public Service salary bill will increase by 24 per cent. It may be hard for a socialist government to accept, but it is a fundamental economic fact of life that the private sector of the economy generates the wealth which allows the public sector to expand. If the public sector outstrips the private sector, productivity suffers. Greater productivity is the most successful weapon against inflation 
The Australian people are paying a high price for the centralist doctrinaire socialism of this Government. Probably the worst example of this ideology is the allocation of SI 07m to nationalise the Gidgealpa to Sydney gas pipeline. Apparently the remaining $100m needed to complete the project will be allocated next year. At a time when the nation should be restricting public spending as part of the battle against inflation, this Government is outlaying $207m of taxpayer's funds on a pipeline that private enterprise was building anyway. When reviewing the Budget, Tony Thomas, the economics writer in the Melbourne 'Age' said: 
This pipeline was going to be built in any case by the Australian Gas Light Company, but the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  preferred to use public funds. He offered nothing to justify his choice but some socialist rhetoric. 
He ends his article with the statement: 'This disastrous Budget has. a quality of its  own.' Perhaps the most pertinent comment came from Allan Barnes of the Melbourne 'Age'. He said that the Budget was 'unashamedly socialist'. The Opposition has moved an amendment attacking the Budget on 8 grounds, any one of which by itself provides sufficient reason for passing the amendment. This Government stands condemned because, with inflationary pressures intense, it has failed to adopt any policy to bring inflation under control. I support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden). 
Motion (by  Mr Hayden)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
I will speak very briefly today because I think most of the arguments have been covered fairly fully during the debate in this House, in the Senate and of course in the community. We all know that the Bill will be passed because the abolition of the death penalty is the policy of the Government and a number of members of the Opposition will vote with the Government on this issue because we on this side of the chamber have a conscience vote on this Bill. At the July meeting of the State Council of the Liberal Party in my State of Victoria, a motion was passed recommending that the Victorian Liberal Government abolish capital punishment. I am hopeful that the progressive Liberal Government in Victoria very soon will introduce in Victoria the same legislation as has been introduced in the Federal sphere. I believe that to abolish capital punishment the decision of State council was a rational and enlightened decision. 
During the debate on abortion in this House on 10 May, I said that I found it difficult to believe that any Christian who claimed to believe that God created life should at the same time believe that anyone other than God should take that life away. I believe that my attitude in the abortion debate and in this debate is consistent with an attitude in favour of the preservation of life, whether it be of a foetus or of an adult even if he has commited the crime of murder. I do not believe that the State has the right to take a life in any circumstances and for that very reason I will vote for the abolition of capital punishment and will oppose all the foreshadowed amendments. 
As was mentioned by the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant),  the last hanging occurred in Victoria. That was the hanging of Ronald Ryan. I remember that day very well. I was driving to work in my car and the 8 o'clock news came on the radio. I heard the pips indicating the hour and then the announcer said: 'Ronald Ryan has just been hanged at Pentridge by the neck', or words to that effect. In my mind I got a visual picture of that man hanging by a rope and it made me feel sick inside. I believe anyone who heard that broadcast and who knew what was happening at that moment also should have felt sick inside. As the honourable member for Wills said, that man killed a policeman accidentally or in the heat of the moment of escaping over the wall at Pentridge. I did not think his crime was half as bad as that of the man who escaped with him - a man by the name of Walker - who, while he was at large, deliberately took a man into a toilet at Albert Park, put a gun to his head and shot him. Yet Walker got off with manslaughter while Ryan was hanged, even though Ryan had killed in the heat of the moment. The whole situation seemed to be the wrong way round. I felt that it was a great pity that Ryan was sacrificed because he killed a policeman accidentally, yet Walker got off with a charge of manslaughter. I am not saying that it was not a terrible thing that the policeman was killed, but I think it was wrong to act against Ryan purely because, in the heat of the moment, he killed a policeman. 
If this Bill goes through - of course it will - and capital punishment is abolished, the community must be protected from certain types of criminals such as the psychopathic criminal who goes out and rapes and kills a child. I think there should be some provision for those sorts of people never to be released from prison. We have coming up shortly the case of a man in South Australia, Rupert Max Stuart, who in 1959 was convicted of raping and killing a little girl. I see that now, after 14 years, there is talk in the newspapers that he is to be released. I hope that there will be no repetition of the crime of which he was convicted, as there has been in other similar cases in which men in that condition have been released from prison. I should like to think - 
I direct this to the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  who is at the table and who represents the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  - that some provision can be made in the law of the Australian Capital Territory to ensure that those sorts of people are not released to recommit their crimes on the community, because once they have that type of mental problem they probably will never get better and could repeat a similar crime again. 
I understand and respect the feelings of those who cannot vote for this Bill, but I cannot agree with them. I regard deliberate killing by the state as not only abhorrent but also archaic. At this point I will conclude my remarks because my colleague the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  wishes to speak in this debate and I am sure that his contribution will be well worth hearing. I certainly will welcome the decision which we will reach in this House this afternoon to abolish this archaic and barbaric law. 
I address my question to the Prime Minister. If the 2 proposed amendments to the Constitution to give the Commonwealth Government control over prices and incomes are passed at the referendum to be held later this year, will he assure the House that his Government will use both powers and not just the power over prices? 
Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the 5 measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
I do. I am sure you will understand my feelings,  Mr Speaker,  and those of the many constituents of Deakin who have phoned me over the weekend, because you were similarly grievously misrepresented prior to your elevation as  Speaker  in respect to your pride and joy, your beautiful down-town city of Redfern. In a report appearing in a Melbourne morning newspaper I and a large number of the constituents of the electorate of Deakin have been misrepresented, unwittingly I have no doubt, but nonetheless misrepresented. The report was headed 'Chipp defines his dropout*. It went on to say: 
A Liberal M.P.  Mr Don  Chipp yesterday gave his definition of an Australian dropout. 'He works nine to five, goes home to a well manicured lawn and double garage in Blackburn or Malvern',  Mr Chipp  said. 'When it comes to community involvement outside his own short-term and materialistic interests, he is the model of apathy.' 

 Mr Speaker, I cannot answer for the citizens of Malvern - the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  is best able to do that - but I live in Blackburn in the heart of my electorate of Deakin and I know only too well the kind of people who live there. Blackburn is a unique bushland oasis in the midst of the vast asphalt jungle which is the city of Melbourne. It is only 11 miles from the General Post Office and one can wander there among the wattles, gums and other native flora. Blackburn has been deliberately kept that way by the people who live there. Every morning one wakes to the sound of bellbirds. 
To show that these people are not dropouts, I point out that on Saturday morning last 300 people attended a meeting and last night a similar number met at the council chambers protesting at a projected subdivision by a developer of a 4-acre site known as Bellbird Corner. Blackburn people know the meaning of the term 'quality of life' and mean to maintain it in Blackburn. Blackburn is sometimes scoffingly referred to as the Bible belt of Melbourne. We are proud of that title. Perhaps the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  just plucked the name Blackburn facetiously out of the air without being aware of how beautiful this area really is. But I assure him and this House that the people of Blackburn are no more materialistic and certainly much less apathetic than other members of the Australian community. They are very much aware of their duty to society. 
In May of this year on the initiative of the former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant),  this Parliament set up the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs. The Committee consists of 5 Government members and 4 Opposition members under the chairmanship of the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross).  I think it is proof that all parties in this Parliament are co-operating for the welfare of the Aboriginal. I suppose I would be the only member of the Committee who does not, as far as I know, have one Aboriginal living in his electorate. As I pointed out yesterday in this House the people of the electorate of Deakin are very much aware of their duty to society. More than most they care about the under-privileged in the community and there is considerable concern in the area for the wellbeing of the Aborigine. 
The  President  of the Aboriginal Evangelical Fellowship, Pastor David Kirk, lives in Box Hill in my electorate. In my electorate at Nunawading we have a branch of the Aboriginal Advancement League. The churches are also heavily committed to assisting Aboriginal welfare. This may seem rather strange when there are few, if any, Aboriginals within the electorate. I have arranged a seminar in my electorate for 2 November into Aboriginal affairs. The honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  and  Mr Reg  Worthy, the Director of Aboriginal Affairs in Victoria, will be 2 of the 5 speakers at that seminar. There has been considerable interest within the electorate in this seminar. 
At last we appear to be doing something in this Parliament to improve the lot of the Aboriginal. It is to our considerable shame as citizens and as a nation that 200 years after the advent of the white man Aboriginals are still living in this country as second class citizens. It is only in the last 6 years that the problems facing Aboriginals have been tackled with any sort of drive or meaning. But it is not easy to right the wrongs of nearly 2 centuries in so short a time. The guilt feeling which had been building up for some time found its expression in the referendum of 1967 when nearly 90 per cent of voters supported the proposition that Aboriginals should be counted as Australians and that the Federal Government should have power to make laws for their welfare. 
The great breakthrough came, I think, when the honourable member for Mackellar was appointed as Minister-in-Charge of Aboriginal Affairs in the Gorton Government. As a result of his usual zeal and drive, things began to happen. The other former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, the honourable member for Wills, whom the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has. replaced in that portfolio, was just beginning, I believe, to get into stride with his portfolio when it was taken from him. I know that he 'has come in for considerable criticism from the Press and from some of his colleagues. But I, from this side of the Committee, and as one who is concerned about the Aboriginal problem, must say that I am sad to see him replaced. He may have made mistakes. Vii.it active Minister has not? And he has been active. He has a heart. This country has been fortunate, and the Aboriginals h- particular have K,:n fortunate, to have had the the honourable member for Mackellar awd the honourable member for Wills as Ministers responsible for Aboriginal affairs. These 2 men devoted many years to the Aboriginal cause long before either entered the Ministry. 
I must say that I have been concerned at reports that the honourable member for WillS nas been replaced as Minister for Aboriginal Affairs because he would not bend to the will of his Department. I am as concerned as it the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt).  If this allegation is true, it is a grave reflection on the judgment of the Prime Minister. To say the least, it says little for Cabinet solidarity. In a democracy such as ours, if there is a conflict between a duly elected Minister and his departmental head it should not be the Minister who is replaced. I support the remarks of the honourable member for Gwydir that some inquiry should be held into this matter. 
The Aboriginals worst situated are undoubtedly the fringe dwellers, those. whose contact with the white man has caused them to absorb in many cases the white man's faults without his accompanying virtues. Before I became a member of Parliament I, coming from Melbourne, had had little contact with Aboriginals. I, in common with many others, had been told that the Aboriginal was a nohoper and a drunkard and that all he wanted was handouts. I must say that since I have been a member of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs my experience has been the exact opposite. The Committee naturally has met the 
Aboriginal dropout. But the overwhelming majority of Aboriginals have been proud people who realise that they need assistance to assimilate into the white man's society but who, nonetheless, wish to succeed. 
There are 4 major areas of need, as I see the situation. These areas are housing, employment, education and health. All are being tackled. Our experience as a committee was that most Aboriginals did not want to be pushed, apartheid style, outside the limits of towns. Most wanted to be given homes mixed among the ordinary white population. Where we saw examples of this type of integration, in almost every instance we found the Aboriginal home as well kept, if not better kept, than that of the Aboriginal's white neighbour. One of the biggest problems of the outer western towns of New South Wales which we visited is to provide employment for the Aboriginals where no employment opportunities exist. We found that most Aboriginals are not prepared to leave their home environment to gain employment, but most were adamant that they wanted employment rather than unemployment relief. The scheme of the previous Government, continued by this Government, of providing money to shire councils to create employment for Aboriginals has worked well. But it can at best be a temporary expedient only. 
The payment of funds to Aboriginal parents who send their children on to high school has done much to encourage Aboriginal children to go on to higher education levels. It may be a form of bribery, but perhaps in this case the end justifies the means. But it is of no use turning out numbers of Aboriginal children at higher school certificate standard if no employment is available for them to use their educational achievements to advantage. Aboriginals are notoriously good at working with their hands. What we should be doing with these young people is to send them to technical schools where they can learn a trade and then become gainfully employed in building houses for Aboriginals and giving expression to their talents in other forms. Yet, in places like Bourke, Walgett and Moree, although modern high schools are provided, the nearest technical school is 250 miles away at Dubbo. I feel that somehow the Government of New South Wales has its priorities wrong in this respect. 
The problems facing the fringe dwelling Aboriginal are in many aspects greatly different from those facing the tribal Aboriginal. The differing problems are just as vast as the continent is wide. Time is not available to me to cover the problems faced by Aboriginals in the tribal situation today. Given education, good housing, employment and a white man's income, the Aboriginal will be well on the road to equality. This end will not be achieved in a day as the former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, who is sitting at the table, knows only too well. But when this objective is achieved, it will be a job well done. The former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, the honourable member for Wills, has created many initiatives. It is a tragedy that he will not be able to follow these through, but I am sure that the honourable member will never lose his intense interest in the welfare of the Aboriginal race. I wish him well in his new portfolio. 
I direct a question to the Prime Minister. Has the Government been advised by the Attorney-General's Department and/or by an independent authority that it is legally open to interpretation that wages are the price of labour? If only the prices power is passed at the referendum on 8 December, will the Prime Minister assure the House that the Government will not then use the prices power to control incomes and wages? Can he bind future governments in this regard? 
One cannot speak to the estimates for the Department of Education without one's views on education being overshadowed by the Karmel report. The Karmel report is to become the blueprint for the present socialist Government's approach to education. It is an exceedingly interesting document and in many respects a valuable one, especially as a basis for future discussions. This year, $145m has been appropriated for education. The Karmel report is to be applauded for its recommendation for extra money to be spent in schools which at present are not up to the standard which an affluent country such as Australia should expect. But, just as the Karmel report is forward looking te one respect, it is backward looking in another. I refer to the ridiculous argument that, because parents of the children attending some schools have worked to provide better facilities for those schools, those schools by some simple reasoning become so-called wealthy schools, and that parents of the children attending those schools hence must be penalised for their initiative in improving the facilities at those schools. 
Let us, if we can, divorce ourselves from the religious and political bigotry which for so long has dogged this question of government assistance to independent schools and look at the situation as sanely and as logically as one would expect members of the Australian community and the Australian Parliament to look at it. Every child attending school is an Australian citizen and is entitled to be treated equally with every other Australian child. His parents, as Australian citizens and taxpayers, are entitled to be treated equally with other citizens and taxpayers. If the Government is prepared to spend $800 a year on the secondary education of one Australian child, every other Australian child should be entitled to the same amount of expenditure by the same Government, and he should be entitled to it as a right, irrespective of the school he attends. 
What does it matter to a government what school a pupil attends, provided that school maintains the required standards as laid down by the Department of Education? I know that it is part of the policy of the Australian Labor Party to equalise, nationalise and regiment every member of the community. That is part of its philosophy, and I suppose the rest of us have to live with it. The Labor Party believes in one nationalised banking system, one nationalised airline system and the nationalisation of Australia's resources and is working toward one nationalised education system. 
One of the things one learns as a first year accountancy student is to distinguish between capital and income. Professor Karmel and his committee apparently have not been told of this rudimentary distinction; neither, apparently, has the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  or his Government. They have classified 105 Australian schools as wealthy schools - a horribly class conscious term that could emanate only from socialists, such as the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews),  who is interjecting - and as a result this Government intends to deprive the children attending those schools of any government assistance. There is no sense of justice in their approach. I am disappointed with the Minister for Education because I have always thought that he would place justice highly among his principles. Apparently I was wrong and he has bowed to the will of Caucus and its doctrinaire approach in this regard. It is a great pity, and he loses in standing because of it. 
A wealthy person - even a wealthy person such as the honourable member for Casey, on his salary - can send his child to a government run school, pay nothing in fees and cost the taxpayers $800 a year for the education of his child; yet he is quite capable of paying for that education, the same as anyone else. But he makes his children a charge on the community. A struggling family on a much lower income than the honourable member for Casey may send their child to an independent school. The mother of the second family may work to send that child to that school and the parents may make great sacrifices to do so. This Government, ridden as it is with class hatred, applauds and assists the first family but berates the second family. The Minister for Education shrugs his shoulders and probably mentally says:  'So  what?'. The fundamental fact that this Minister and his Government refuse to admit is that none of the independent schools run at a profit. Their fees simply cover their costs and, with the wage increases and galloping inflation which have come about since the Labor Government came to power, the fees are fast becoming beyond the reach of the average family. So, the Government will achieve what it really wants. These schools will become the province of the wealthy and the children of ordinary parents who at present, by making considerable personal sacrifices, can send their children to these schools will be forced to withdraw them. Some of these schools will collapse and the others will become elitist schools attended only by snobbish children of snobbish parents. So, the Government is well on its way to its doctrinaire, nationalised, socialist education system. 
It is interesting to note that the Government has not felt strong enough to attack the Catholic parish schols. It realises that Catholics represent approximately 25 per cent or more of the population and, in its present parlous electoral position, it does not wish to worsen further that position. It is to the admirable credit of the Catholic bishops and laymen that they have deplored the grants being taken from Protestant schools just as strongly as if they had been taken from Catholic schools. A very interesting cartoon appeared recently in the London 'Daily Express'. Apparently the socialists in Britain are just as bad as the socialist Government here in Australia. The cartoon's theme is nationalisation and it depicts one person, who could very well be our present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  hopping up and saying: 'Nationalise the lot!'; another person, who could very well be the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  saying: Confiscation not compensation'; another one, who could very well be the Minister for Educa tion who is sitting at the table, saying: 'No private schools!'; and another one, who could very well be the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden),  saying: 'No private medicine!'. These are the sort of people who are running our country. Apparently, socialists, whether they be in Britain or Australia, are much the same. 
I should like to read briefly from a letter I received from the bursar of the Methodist Ladies College in Melbourne which, strangely enough, has not been classed as an A class school. The letter states: 
I enclose a copy of a circular letter sent to MLC parents (of whom it is estimated approximately  47  per cent voted for Labor's educational policies in the December elections). 
Perhaps Labor will not be getting those votes in future. The bursar goes on to say: 
The loss of per capita grants to schools is actually a loss to parents in that fees must be raised to cover the recurrent expenses. Parents, partly due to the fact that up to 40 per cent of mothers are in part or full time employment primarily to keep their children at schools of their choice, pay equal or more in taxation than those parents who by choice or circumstances send their children to government schools. Surely they are entitled either by direct refund on presentation of receipted accounts, or by means of per capita grants to the particular school at which their son or daughter attends, because the educational cost allocation should extend to their children's benefit also. 
The bursar goes on to say: 
Of particular concern to most of the independent schools is not only the heavy loss of enrolments to them but as to how the government schools will cope with an extraordinary influx of the additional students who must on account of the increased financial strain on their parents apply for places in 1974. 
He continues: 
The immediate cost for adequate new buildings, teaching staff and facilities will be enormous, and in the long term the costs for maintenance added to the immediate expenses will be a charge on the taxpayers to an amount very much greater than that now removed by cancellation or reduction of per capita grants to many independent schools. 
Though requesting for a review of the Karmel report in its relation to the independent schools, I do appreciate very sincerely the fact that allocations have been so widely given to assist under privileged students. 
Those are the views of an expert who knows what he is talking about. This is what the Government is doing to independent schools. Today it is the Protestant independent schools; tomorrow who knows? This Government is throwing money around like a child with 4 hands. It is to its eternal shame that because it is ridden with policies of class hatred it is deliberately destroying the independent school system which has served Australia so well and for so long. 
As ViceChairman of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts, I present the one hundred and forty-fifth and one hundred and forty-sixth reports of the Public Accounts Committee. 
Ordered that the reports be printed. 

 Mr JARMAN (Deakin) - I seek to make a short statement. 
I ask the Minister for Defence: Why is the aircraft carrier HMAS Sydney' being paid off and dismantled when it would have been ideally the most economical way to freight the Chinook helicopters from the US, as was originally intended, and also the most economical way to withdraw the Australian troops and equipment from Singapore? Apart from HMAS 'Melbourne' which as flagship of the Fleet is required for operational duties, what source of seagoing strategic mobility is now available to Australia which is not under the direct control of the communist-led Seamen's Union of Australia? 
I shall be brief as I understand that the debate is to conclude at 25 minutes to 5. In 1945, at the end of World War II, the population of Australia was 7 million. In that year Arthur Calwell, who was then the Minister for Immigration, announced the establishment of a concerted immigration policy on the basis that increased population was essential to the growth and full development of the Australian economy in the post-war period. That policy wasbased on the realistic belief that neither morally no physically could we hope to occupy this vast continent with a small population while the population of the rest of the world was increasing so rapidly. As a consequence the actual number of migrants was established at the maximum which was considered to be the nation's capacity to absorb effectively. One of the fundamental principles underlying the continuance of the immigration program was the great economic and social benefit that flowed as a result of it. 
At the peak of the program several years ago Australia was absorbing 180,000 migrants a year. This caused strains on the economy with the result that during the term of the previous Government the figure was dropped back to 140,000. Under the present Government the intake for 1973-74 has been set at 110,000, a drop of 20 per cent from the previous year. It is the decrease in the migrant intake that has prompted me to speak today. A high migrant intake causes problems at a time of inflation or under-employment. It is tempting for governments faced with that sort of problem to reduce the migrant intake rather than to tackle the basic problem. Today, when many harsh remarks have been made in this chamber, it would be less than fair for me not to pay tribute to the energy and enthusiasm of the Minister. Looking to the future of this country, I 'believethat we should be absorbing many more than 110,000 migrants a year. Inflation is still a serious problem but unemployment no longer is. There are too many jobs available, resulting in many job vacancies. The Minister claims that he expects that fewer settlers will leave Australia now that there is a Labor Government and that consequently therewill be a net settler increase in 1973-74. I think that the Minister is being over-optimistic in this belief. The gallup polls relating to the popularity of the present Government would not lead one to that conclusion. 
In the long term national interest the Government should make immediate and concerted efforts to attract more migrants to Australia. Australia needs a strong and vigorous migration program based on the selection of suitable settlers with the capacity to integrate into Australian society. It is a matter of record that migrants have contributed significantly to the enrichment and development of the Australian way of life. I end by reiterating what I said earlier: Australia cannot morally or physically expect to occupy this vast and wealthy continent while the rest of the people in the world have barely a square foot of land on which to place their feet. We are in a position today to invite to our shores as migrants those whom we believe can most easily be assimilated. We may not always be in that position. 
Motion (by  Mr Clyde  Cameron) agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Proposed expenditures agreed to. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted.  (The documents read as follows) - 

<graphic href="087131197311270_33_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="087131197311270_34_1.jpg"></graphic>

 Mr Speaker,  I seek leave to make a short statement in connection with the report. 
My question is addressed to  the Minister for Defence. Is it a fact that 25 cadets and midshipmen in the Royal Australian Navy had their appointments terminated on 28 September this year? Is it true that in 10 years time, when, as the Minister has stated, a threat to Australia's security could well be imminent, these cadets would have been executive officers in the naval forces but for the termination of their appointments? Is it also correct that the Navy has been instructer.1 that its establishment is to be reduced this year by 80 officers and 1,180 men? Where and when is this dismantling of Australia's defences going to end? Is the Minister aware of the low morale that the actions of this Government have created in the defence forces in general and the Navy in particular? 
As Vice-Chairman, I present the one hundred and forty-eighth report of the Public Accounts Committee. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 

 - Mr Speaker, I seek leave to make a short statement. 
I ask the Prime Minister the following question: Is it correct as reported that he was refused a vote by the returning officer at a polling booth on Saturday because, apparently unbeknown to the Prime Minister one of his staff had arranged a postal vote for him? As the voter himself must sign the application for a postal vote before a witness and must himself fill in the ballot paper, I ask the Prime Minister: Did he in fact sign the application for a postal vole and did he in fact mi in the postal ballot paper? If he did, why would he have endeavoured to vote at the polling booth? 
Whilst not wishing to preclude any debate in this House on the matter of the expenditure of funds in the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, as  Deputy Chairman  of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts, I have been asked by the Committee to draw the attention of the House to the fact that the Joint Committee of Public Accounts has already resolved to conduct a public inquiry into the whole financial administration of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. This resolution followed the Committee's consideration of the Auditor-General's supplementary report for 1972-73 where reference was made in paragraph 3 to apparent departures from the requirements of the Audit Act and Treasury Regulations and on certain deficiencies noted in the financial and administrative control over the receipt and expenditure of public moneys and of moneys of the Commonwealth Capital Fund for Aboriginal Enterprises. The Committee also resolved that it would not proceed to public inquiry on these matters until it had examined the special report which the Auditor-General was expected to table early in the autumn session. 
The duties of the Committee as set out in sections 8 (a) and 8 (b) of the Public Accounts Committee Act make it mandatory for the Committee to examine each statement and report transmitted to the Parliament by the Auditor-General in pursuance of sub-section (1) of section 53 of the Audit Act 1901-1973 and to report to both Houses of Parliament with such comment as it thinks fit any items or matters in those statements and reports, or any circumstances connected with them, to which the Committee is of the opinion that the attention of the Parliament should be directed. It will be the duty of the Committee, therefore, to examine the special report of the Auditor-General which has been tabled today and to decide on the information that will be requested from the Department by way of a submission on which to base the public inquiry. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hansen)  adjourned. 
I address my question to the Minister for Overseas Trade. As a fellow Victorian who also enjoys Australian Rules football, I ask: What is the reason that the Peoples' Republic of China has declined the Minister's proposal, for which I commend him, of a visit to that country by an Australian Rules football team? Will the Minister explain to the Chinese Government that Australian Rules football is a pleasureable, fresh and entertaining game and that it is no more harmful or subversive than ping-pong? 
My question is addressed to the Treasurer and is prompted by the presence in Canberra today of the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions for talks about growing unemployment. I ask: Does the Treasurer recall telling the Australian people just before the election that 'inflation was on the way down'? I think that is the term he used. Was this statement made, as some have claimed, to defuse inflation as an election issue? If it was not, and inflation was in fact falling, why is it now necessary for the Government, through its tariff and other policies, to create unemployment in the electrical, motor vehicle, clothing, footwear and other industries? 
Is the Special Minister of State and Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in matters relating to the Public Service aware of the statement by the son of the late  Sir Arthur  Rylah, formerly  Deputy  Premier of Victoria, that, had his father been employed in private enterprise or been a public servant rather than a parliamentarian,  Sir Arthur's  widow would have been entitled to workers compensation for his death? Is it a fact that if a parliamentarian and a public servant, the salaries of both of whom are paid by the Australian Government, are killed of incapacitated in the same car in which they are travelling in the course of their duties, the public servant would qualify for workers compensation but the parliamentarian or his widow would not? Will the Minister bring this matter before the Government for consideration so that parliamentarians are treated on a basis comparable to public servants and those employed by private enterprise? 
I rise to speak on the estimates for the Department of Education because of the deep concern which I and many of my constituents feel at the policies being adopted towards Australia's independent school system. I wish to deal with 2 specific aspects of Government policy. The first is the reduction of the tax deduction for education ex:penses incurred by parents from $400 to $150. The second is the reduction since this Government took office of per capita grants, which adversely affects parents who send their children to a school other than a government school. 
I have been deluged by protests from parents in my electorate about the Government's policies towards non-government schools. Deakin is not an electorate where the wealthy reside. The people of Deakin are average, hard-working Australians who aim to own their own homes and who aim to improve their standard of living and that of their families. A large number of parents in my electorate send their children to independent schools and it is on their behalf that I speak today. It is an electorate in which the Australian Labor Party came within 720 votes of winning representation in 1972 but in which it was soundly thrashed in 1974 because of its subsequent actions. 
I would like to read a few excerpts from a letter sent to the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  and the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  by one of my constituents. I have his permission to quote his words.  His  children attend Camberwell Grammer School, classed by this Government as an A class or wealthy school. He points out that he comes from a working class family, is not wealthy and that an independent school education for his children is resulting in considerable sacrifices for his family in other areas. He states that he voted for the Labor Party in 1972 and that his background is such that his support has always been with the Labor Party. He says- and I quote his words: 
The Labor Party seems hellbent on destroying the independent school system for reasons that are founded on the assumption that all parents who send their children to independent schools are wealthy. This assumption is so far from the truth that it is ridiculous. The savage and discriminatory measures the Government is taking against parents of children attending independent schools is going to mean that many parents, including myself, will be placed in such a financial position that they will have no choice but to withdraw their children from independent schools and try to get them accepted at a Government school. Such action is founded on the misguided assumptions and personal vendettas being made by some within the Labor Party towards these schools. 
He concludes:  1 can assure you I am close enough to the grass roots of public feeling prevailing at present to suggest that these policies towards independent schools will be damaging, and coupled with other economic decisions, perhaps fatal for the Labor Government. 
These are the words of a former Labor voter in my electorate. They are ominous words and typical of many I receive from constituents. 
I can give the honourable member his name. He would have no objection to it and I can give it to the honourable member later or I can put it in Hansard. Many parents in my electorate feel the same way. I have a letter here from the  President  of the Parents and Friends Association of St Leo's Christian Brothers College in Box Hill in my electorate. He writes: 
Dear Mr Jarman 
The Committee of the Parents' and Friends' Association of St. Leo's College, Box Hill, wishes to register a strong protest on behalf of parents, at the decision announced in the recent Federal Budget, to reduce allowable taxation deductions for education expenses from $400 to $ 1 SO per child. 
He goes on: 
There are approximately 500 boys attending St. Leo's College. It is estimated that the decision represents an average cost of $80-$ 100 per pupil or a total cost of $40,O00-$50,000 to the parents of boys at St. Leo's. The school is not wealthy, the parents are average, not high, income earners, and the decision, therefore, imposes a severe financial burden on people who are already, in many cases, finding it difficult to finance their children 's education. 
The letter continues: 
As the result of the taxation allowance being reduced, it is inevitable that some parents will withdraw their children from Independent schools, and certainly there will be some effect on Catholic schools. It is hard to avoid the impression that this is a step towards the elimination of the Independent school system and particularly the Catholic school system. 
We are writing this letter because, unlike the Trade Unions, we have no other means, between elections, of making our views known to the Government. We appeal to you to seek urgent reconsideration of this decision. 
Again an ominous warning to this Government. Many parents in my electorate send their children to such schools as Wesley, where fees have risen for the third term this year to $5 10 per term for forms III to VI. This amounts to $1,530 per annum in fees alone for one child. Add to this uniforms, equipment, books, fares and all the other extras and it is costing parents well over $2,000 per annum to send one child to such a school. Parents have already been warned that projected steep salary rises for teachers in the new year estimated at between 20 and 30 per cent will mean further substantial fee rises- and Wesley is a non-profit making church school. 
According to a recent survey the gross average family income of parents with children attending independent schools is between $10,000 and $12,000 per annum. If they have 2 children attending such an independent school somewhere around 40 per cent of the net family income would be spent on the education of the 2 children. How many ordinary average families can continue paying this son of cost for long? Obviously they will have no choice but to withdraw their children and place them in government schools, thus overcrowding, downgrading and increasing the costs to taxpayers of running government schools. The more children are withdrawn the more the fees of non-government schools will rise until only the children of the really wealthy can afford to attend these schools. They will become what some people in the Labor Party would like to see, purely elitist schools attended by only the children of the wealthy, easily isolated, with the vast mass of children attending government-run schools. Nationalisation of education will have been achieved. 
According to recent Victorian Government Budget papers, the total taxpayer support for every child attending a government school is approximately $1,230 per annum. Every parent who is forced by the policies of this Government to withdraw a child from a non-government school and send him or her to a government school is going to cost the taxpayer an extra $1,230 per annum. This is a high price for the taxpayers to pay for the socialist policies of this Government. These policies reduce the standards and increase the costs of the government school system. How much cheaper and more logical to subsidise the fees parents pay at nongovernment schools, to help to keep these fees down to a reasonable sum, thus enabling the average family to send its children to one of these schools should it so choose. 
It is only 2 months or so since the Budget, yet already non-government schools are finding children being withdrawn or enrolments being deferred or cancelled. One Catholic school in my electorate, classified category H, faces a deficit of $33,000 this year. One of the leading girls' schools in Melbourne, a church school classified category C, will also face a substantial loss this year. What alternative have these schools but to increase their fees? The more the fees are increased the more the transfers to the government system snowball. If we could wipe the slate clean and start again, if we could look at our education system without emotion or without class hatred, what would be the best system? I believe it would be one which would retain the right of the children to be educated at the school of thenchoice and at the same time would treat all children equally. To my way of thinking, the answer would be a type of voucher system similar to the one used in some areas in the United States. It would enable our dual system of education to continue to function; under the system each child would be treated equally by the Government. If it cost the taxpayers $1,230 to educate a child at a government school then the government would simply issue a voucher to this value for every child. This might then be used for his education at the school of his choice, provided of course that that school came up to government standards. All taxpaying parents would thus receive the same contribution towards their children's education. If by the mother working, or by other sacrifices, parents preferred to spend more on their children's education than the Government voucher allowed, then it would be their prerogative to do so and naturally they would have to meet the added costs. So much emotion and hatred has been built up in Australia in the past over aid to non-government schools that this type of system would not be readily achieved, but it is an ideal towards which we should strive. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Berinson)Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
I do. During the speech of the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  he said that I yawned while the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  was speaking, with the inference that I was bored at what the honourable member was saying. I know the Minister is not quite as bright these days as perhaps he was when he became the Minister and he is not perhaps as perceptive. What actually happened was that I opened my mouth to say 'Hear, hear' to what the honourable member was saying but I realised, of course, that those listening in the gallery and those listening on the air would have seen the logic of what the honourable member was saying and it was quite unnecessary for me to give him that support. That is exactly what happened, and I do want the Minister not to be under a misapprehension. 
I ask the Minister for Labor and Immigration: Is he aware that in the State of Victoria and, in fact, throughout Australia there is a vast number of Aborigines registered with his Department awaiting employment? Is he also aware that while the Commonwealth employment Service has been given top staffing priority for the introduction of the National Employment and Training Scheme, the Aboriginal employment section of the Department has been stopped from filling 35 essential positions- 10 vocational officers and 25 Aboriginal employment assistants- because of a staff ceiling imposed on this section of the Department? The Minister will recall that I sent him a note on this matter several days ago. I now ask the Minister: What action has been taken oris in the process of being taken to fill these positions in order that speedy assistance can be given to see that Aboriginal unemployed are not forgotten and passed over? 
-The Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  mentioned during his speech that at a meeting of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs held in Melbourne in September last year the  Chairman  of that Committee,  Senator James  McClelland, described this Bill as a 'radical departure from previous matrimonial causes legislation'.  Senator McClelland  was later to say at the same meeting that it was 'a drastic and quite dramatic alteration to the existing legal concept'. Yet the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  endeavoured to hurry this Bill through this Parliament 5 minutes before the adjournment during the dying hours of the previous session and, due to the acceptance of a motion to adjourn discussion on this Bill, people are now beginning to realise the full ramifications of this legislation as is being shown by the vast amount of correspondence protesting against this Bill arriving on members' desks daily. In my electorate of Deakin I would estimate that I have received some hundreds of letters opposed to the Bill compared with something less than 10 in favour of the Bill and then mostly printed matter emanating from outside the electorate. It has been claimed by the supporters of this legislation that it will help buttress marriage and the family. In some ways it may particularly in the area of marriage counselling and guidance and for this it is to be commended, but it also sets out in detail a pattern and design for the speedy demolition of marriage. 
This Bill, if it is passed, will allow a man or a woman to walk out on his marriage partner, and their children, move in with his or her fancy of the moment and after 12 months demand a divorce. They can even continue living together in the same house during the 12-month period. No court will be able to refuse such a demand. The views of the other partner, be he or she innocent or guilty, will be of no consequence. For those of us who remember saying the words 'For richer, for poorer, for better or for worse, in sickness and in health, till death do us part' this Bill changes the whole concept of marriage. In the future we could well see young couples, perhaps our own children, standing before some paid appointee of this Government at a marriage ceremony, not entering marriage as a contract to be maintained for better or for worse, in sickness and in health, till death does them part. Will they not rather go into marriage believing that if the going gets too tough they can just opt out? Marriage could well become an experiment instead of a lifelong commitment which can be dissolved only if and when it is proved that one of the parties has engaged in conduct opposed to that commitment. This Bill could cause marriage to become a passing, temporary relationship which can be dissolved at the whim of one of the parties on 12 months notice. How absurd it is that what the law does not allow a person to do in respect of his or her financial contracts, that is, terminate them at will, this Bill will allow a man or woman to do in respect of a lifelong commitment or contract which he has made with his marriage partner. 
This legislation will alter the ideas, the decisions and the behaviour of future generations of Australians towards marriage. If the law says something is permissible and if young people grow up seeing people acting in a certain way they will tend naturally to accept this as the normal way to behave. Future generations of Australians will grow up under a law which treats marriage as a temporary liaison and little more. They will grow up in a society where speedy termination of such a liaison will be commonplace. They can terminate their marriage for quite insubstantial reasons. Marriage could even well become redundant. Despite marriage counselling, many marriages will break down which otherwise may not have broken down if more thought had been given to the commitment in the first place. Every marriage goes through difficult periods of adjustment at one time or another and all marriages require give and take and understanding on the part of both partners. Easy divorce could cause many not to persevere. Instead of the necessary effort that must be put into a marriage to make it successful and lasting, we could see couples fleeing to the courts for a quick divorce and then perhaps entering upon yet another unsuccessful liaison. Where does all this leave the children? This legislation is unnecessary legislation. Under the present law there is adequate provision for a husband or wife to separate if their marriage is unworkable and to obtain adequate and speedy maintenance and custody orders. 
This legislation has been named by the Government as the 'Family Law Bill'. It should be called the 'Divorce Law Alteration Bill' for that is what it is. No one can deny it is essentially a Bill about divorce and how to make divorce easier and more readily obtainable. The effects of this Bill could be to transform and destroy the Christian values upon which our family life has been based in the past. Once the accepted Christian principles of the family are eroded the end result must eventually be a lack of respect for the traditions of marriage with the resultant growth of fragmented and broken families and a consequent lack of parental control and a possible increase in anti-social behaviour. It has been stated that somewhere between 80 per cent and 90 per cent of the inmates of Pentridge gaol in Melbourne have come from broken homes. Couple this Bill with the abortion on demand Bill which was introduced in the previous Parliament by 2 members of the Labor Party, the honourable member for Diamond Valley,  Mr McKenzie,  and the honourable member for La Trobe,  Mr Lamb,  a Bill which was voted for by a vast majority, although certainly not all, of the members of the Labor Party and we see emerging a pattern which makes one wonder what future Christian family life as we know it today has under a Labor socialist government. As I have said, I have had a vast number of representations from constituents of Deakin from all denominations including Baptists, Presbyterians, Methodists, Catholics and others, who are disturbed that the Government has introduced this Bill. I have made a point of talking at some length to constituents from all walks of life within my electorate and I have found that they are overwhelmingly against the passage of this legislation. 
When the Prime Minister introduced this legislation into the House he said that its purpose was to 'reform the law of divorce and to provide for the establishment of family courts '. He said it was a response by the then Attorney-General,  Senator Murphy,  to 'an overwhelming demand for reform in this area and was not intended to impose an unwanted measure upon an unwilling community: I believe that this legislation is an attempt to impose a law upon an unwilling majority of the community, a law which the people neither want, need nor desire. The results of a gallup poll taken in January this year and published in the Melbourne 'Sun' show that only 27 per cent of the people interviewed said they wanted easily available divorce. Where is this overwhelming demand of which the Prime Minister speaks? The demand certainly does not come from the average citizen in the electorate of Deakin and I would suspect that it does not come from the average citizen of Australia. The Prime Minister admitted in his speech that the legislation was designed to make divorce simpler. He went on to say that people do not resort to divorce lightly or wantonly. I believe that the result of the passing of this legislation will serve just that purpose. It will cause people to resort to divorce lightly and wantonly. 
The Prime Minister also said that the necessity under the existing law to prove fault on the part of the other party promotes indignity, bitterness and hostility in divorce proceedings. I believe these things will still exist under the proposed legislation whenever one party is hurt. The Prime Minister went on to say further that the courts should do everything in their power to avoid promoting continuing hostility between parties after divorce. I say to the Prime Minister that the first priority of the law should be to promote the continuity of marriage rather than legislating hopefully to remove hostility later on. Children need both parents, and people who enter into the marriage contract must realise that not only themselves are involved but also that the lives and future of their children are of paramount importance. People cannot afford to be selfish in marriage, either in regard to their partner or in regard to the children created by that marriage. 
As I have said, I applaud the clause of the legislation which relates to marriage guidance and counselling. This is a valuable service to a community, but should this legislation pass it will, I am sure, be struggling to cope with the ever swelling numbers of couples opting for the easy way out. The provisions which restrict the publication of evidence and details of divorce proceedings I also applaud. I am concerned, however, by what this Bill does to women in our society. It alters completely the system which most of us have grown to accept- that the husband is essentially the main wage earner and the wife's role is that of bringing up the family, particularly in the early years. The Bill will make the lot of women much harder and much more insecure. They may well find that they will get less maintenance; perhaps none at all. It calls for a woman to pay her own costs, and a mother with a young family who has chosen to stay at home and care for the children will be liable to pay for costs of proceedings which may not have been initiated by herself and which she may not be able to afford. 
The maintenance clauses of this legislation which call for women to be equally responsible for the support of the children surprisingly have been supported by the Women's Electoral Lobby. They claim in a newssheet put out about the Bill: 
This clause will help change women's attitudes and encourage women to look to their jobs as more than a fill-in occupation and marriage as a meal ticket. 
What a superficial and denigrating attitude to marriage by an organisation which claims to represent women's interests. The newssheet went on in support of this legislation to say: 
Older women unable to adapt to changing attitudes will be protected by the fact that many judges are older too, and have protective attitudes towards women. 
What sort of logic is this to claim that judges, just because they may be older, will be protective to women? 
In view of the fact that this year is International Women's Year, it is sad to see a Bill before this Parliament which not only takes away rights to which every Australian woman has always been entitled but which also imposes upon them new obligations. It is an imposition on women of a legal and social duty to which they have never before been subjected in this country. The general majority of women cannot command an income capable of supporting a family, give them adequate housing and security, and then in addition face long hours of domestic work and supporting activities with their children out of school hours. It is all very well for the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  to say: 'Do not worry, we will retrain them. We have the NEAT scheme and we have the RED scheme'. My experience is that there are so many people out of work through the economic policies of this Government there is a waiting list as long as one's arm for assistance under these schemes. 
This legislation overlooks a woman's incapacity for job continuity and the psychological adjustment which a woman would face. It overlooks that for a lengthy period of time a woman with children is unable to support herself. Men and women in marriage perform different functions. Their roles are complementary, not equal and interchangeable. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Women play a special role in marriage and special provision must be made by legislators to assist them to perform that function, not only for their own fulfilment but also for the good of their family and society. What is the situation of the older woman in her fifties or sixties who has raised her children? Is she suddenly to be told, after all those years of loyalty in raising her family, that she can now go out to work and fend for herself? It has been claimed that this legislation will eliminate the expense, conflict and bitterness presently associated with divorce actions. The fact is that all this legislation does is transfer the questions of custody, maintenance and disposal of property from the divorce court to later court actions. It is not possible for this legislation to transform human nature, no matter how much it may try to do so, for when one partner to a marriage contract feels wronged and hurt he or she, despite the divorce laws passed by this Parliament, will dispute with just as much determination, passion and personal expenditure matters of money and property and, naturally enough, the custody of the children. It would appear likely that if this legislation became law even more extended litigation over such matters as these would be required than is the case under the present law. 
I am opposed to the passage of this Bill in its present form for a number of reasons. I believe that if this legislation is passed as it now stands it will undermine in the minds of many people the whole institution of marriage. I believe that it will create a decreased incentive for couples to overcome the normal difficulties which arise in marriage. The 12 months period of separation as proof of irretrievable breakdown is far too short. It becomes almost laughable that the couple can still go on living together in the same house during that period. Even the British law insists on 5 years separation where there is not mutual consent and 2 years separation where there is mutual consent. This legislation does introduce some good measures in the form of marriage counselling and the prohibition of publicity for the parties concerned. But, in my opinion, the bad outweighs the good. I urge honourable members to oppose this legislation in its present form and to support the amendment moved by the Minister for Tourism and Recreation. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. I refer to the promise by the Prime Minister in his policy speech in 1972 to abolish the means test on age pensions for people 65 years and over during the life of the then incoming Parliament, which in normal circumstances would have been by December this year. In view of the decision of the Government to defer until April this year the second stage of the abolition of the means test- that is, for people 70 years and over- is the Minister able to give an assurance that the original undertaking to abolish the means test for people over 65 years by the end of this year will be adhered to? 
I rise to speak tonight on a matter which has caused me considerable concern and which I believe requires prompt action, investigation and clarification. The matter concerns 2 private students from Malaysia who entered Methodist Ladies' College at Kew in Melbourne with student visas from the Department of Immigration at the commencement of 1973 with the aim of obtaining their Higher School Certificates in 1 974 and subsequently pursuing a medical course. The 1974 handbook and guide for students for entrance into the medical faculty at Monash on page 42 stated: 
That no more than 10 per cent of the quota of 160 students shall come from overseas to study in Australia under the student visa student of the Department of Immigration. 
This would have meant, of course, that 16 vacancies would have been available for overseas students in the medical faculty at Monash, and these 2 girls would naturally expect that they would at least stand a chance of entering the medical faculty under the then existing quota system, provided they registered a good score in the Higher School Certificate examination, which in actual fact they did. However, the Victorian Universities Admissions Committee guide for prospective students for the following yearthat is, for 1975- which schools received only towards the end of last year, at page 83 states that for overseas students in the medical faculty the quota had been suddenly and radically changed. The students 'guide for 1975 states: 
At Monash the faculty of medicine has agreed to set aside up to 8 places- 
Which is exactly half of the number under the previous situation- in first year for students from overseas who have been awarded scholarships by their home governments. Such students are not accepted unless their qualifications are equivalent to those of local students to gain admission. An application made by a student from overseas who holds no scholarship, however, is most unlikely to be successful. 
The two girls to whom I refer both gained results last year which lie inside the cut-off point for a student to be accepted by the Faculty of Medicine at Monash. A letter from the principal of Methodist Ladies' College to the Dean of the Faculty of Medicine at Monash on 10 February 1975 and also a letter to the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  on the same date point out that clearly these 2 girls who scored well in the Higher School Certificate examination are being penalised and disadvantaged by a sudden change in the regulations. They are being penalised because they are private overseas students. So far no answer has been forthcoming from either Monash or the Minister. 
My own office just recently contacted the Minister for Education by telephone concerning the matter and was told that universities were autonomous institutions and that the Australian Government cannot intervene. I do not refute the right of universities to be autonomous institutions, and as a Liberal I do not approve of undue interference or direction from Canberra, but there are 2 points which I feel should be made. Firstly, the Government adviser, that is, the High Commission in Kuala Lumpur, allowed these girls to come to Australia for the express purpose of preparing for and eventually undertaking a medical course, which under the then existing regulations they would clearly have been able to do. In fact, one of the girls has 2 sisters who have been accepted by the Monash Faculty of Medicine under similar circumstances. The second point I make is that no one, not even the school concerned, was notified about any change in Government policy until the Victorian Universities Admission Committee handbook was sent to the school late last year. 
Until now it has always been the policy of the Victorian Universities School Examination Board to insist on 2 years notice for any change in the regulations. Is it fair, therefore, that these 2 girls should be so penalised by this sudden cut in the quota of overseas students? I believe some investigation and some explanation should be forthcoming. I am glad to see that the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  is at the table because the university year is about to commence and I think immediate action is required. 
Also I have received a letter from the principal of the Methodist Ladies College, Kew, advising me that 5 more Asian girls, one from Indonesia and four from Malaysia- I have their names here if either the Minister for Education or the Minister for Labor and Immigration would like to have them- were interviewed by the Australian 
High Commission in the countries concerned in June 1974, and they not only expressed a desire to prepare for a medical course but were advised to complete the required application form No. Ml 130 which signifies this clearly. This they duly did. 
They were not told of the sudden and dramatic change in the regulations which was obviously unknown to the High Commission at that time. The first notification of any change did not come until October when the 1975 handbook was issued. The 5 girls concerned are now all enrolled at the Methodist Ladies College, Kew, this year- four in the Higher School Certificate year and one in the fifth form- having come to Australia at considerable expense with the express purpose of completing a medical degree. They are now confronted by a new university regulation which makes it almost impossible for private overseas students to enter the Faculty of Medicine either at Monash University or the University of Melbourne. To stop them coming here on a wild goose chase surely the High Commission and the school concerned should have been informed about the embargo which is now placed on Asian students. 
An approach was made by the Student Counsellor at the Methodist Ladies College to a  Mr Bert  Miles, who is concerned with overseas students at the Department of Education, and  Mr Miles  has stated that he was powerless to help in any way. It is my opinion that this matter clearly has now become a political question which can only be resolved at ministerial level. It is unfair that these students should be treated in this way. In the case of the first 2 girls I mentioned, they both came to Australia at considerable expense to follow medicine as their career, believing that they would be able to do so. They completed their leaving Certificate and Higher School Certificate with the Methodist Ladies College, Kew. Does the Minister for Education feel it is fair- I am sure he would agree that it is not- that these 2 girls, and no doubt many others from other schools, who have been permitted to come to this country to study medicine should then suddenly be confronted with this impenetrable barrier to their studies? 
As I have said, up to this moment neither the representations to the Minister for Education nor to the Dean of the Faculty of Medicine have brought any reply. I believe the situation is grossly unfair and I for one protest strongly. I feel that this Goverment should act promptly to investigate and clarify the situation. In my maiden speech to the Parliament over 8 years ago I expressed the hope that Australia would become the university of Asia, a training ground where students from other countries could come, graduate and return to their countries to better the living standards of their people. Australia has gained a great deal of goodwill in this regard, far more goodwill than probably any overseas trip by Australian politicians or Australian Prime Ministers. All the goodwill that has been built up over the years will be destroyed if administrative decisions are allowed to undo all the good which has been done in this regard in the past. 
-I will be very brief because I know the Government has a heavy schedule ahead of it this afternoon. It wants to get through its program. I had intended to speak on the second reading of the Bill but it was not possible. However, there is one provision of the Bill to which I specifically want to refer, and that is in respect of research assistants for members of Parliament. I think it is 2 1 years since the Menzies Government first provided an electorate office for members of the House of Representatives and senators and provided a secretary to staff that office. It was a great step forward and gave constituents easier access, through the secretary, to their member. It also removed some of the pressure from the member's unpaid secretary, namely, his wife. 
Few people realise -how much the wives of members contribute to the work their husbands do on behalf of constituents. They get little or no recognition for this work apart of course from that given by their husbands- or at least one would hope so. When I was in Washington several years ago I was amazed to find that back bench members of the United States House of Representatives are supplied with a suite of offices and a staff of twelve. 1 would be the last to suggest that every member of the Australian House of Representatives should have a staff of such size, but I do applaud the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  for making available under this legislation a research assistant or extra secretarial assistant, whichever the member finds is most needed to help him in his work. 
Since the Minister took over this portfolio in 1 973 he has done much in the provision of facilities and equipment for members, thus enabling them to do their work more efficiently. All honourable members know how much electoral work has increased in recent years. This latest provision of a research officer is sorely needed. It is a great pity that several journalists twisted the whole intention of this added assistance- made, mind you, to improve service to our constituentsinto claiming that it was a payment to members' wives. All I can say to such journalists is that what members' wives do to assist their husbands they do willingly. They neither expect nor get any remuneration or payment for what they do. I thank the Minister for Services and Property for the extra assistance he has given to honourable members to help their constituents. I think that should be said in this debate when this Bill is being passed. 
I wish to speak in the adjournment debate tonight because of my concern, about the massive unemployment throughout Australia and, in particular, in my own electorate of Deakin. I had intended to raise this matter during the second reading debate on the Appropriation Bills which were discussed yesterday but, as the Government gagged that debate, I and many other people who wished to speak were prevented from speaking on this matter which is of such concern to so many of my constituents. Despite the elation of the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  that the unemployment figures apparently dropped marginally in February, the fact that more than 300 000 Australians are unemployed is simply not good enough. Unemployment is running at more than 5 per cent of the work force, the highest it has been for some 40 years. Apart from the human suffering and indignity which being on the dole causes to an individual, I am concerned at the great loss of productivity at a time when this country is crying out for expansion and development. 
It is true that the Appropriation Bills which we discussed yesterday provided $85m for the Regional Employment Development scheme, or the RED scheme as it has come to be known-ascheme to create employment in areas of relatively high unemployment. I understand that already some 3000 projects costing $76m have been approved under that scheme and that the Government is now providing $60m for this purpose. The Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  claims that the provision of this money will reduce unemployment by 2 1 000. But with unemployment running at more than 300 00CT, surely a reduction of that size is only minimal. I understand also that payments to those people put out of employment by the Government's tariff cuts are expected to reach $69m by the end of 1974-75. One cannot help but feel that had the Government's economic and tariff policies been different much of this expenditure would not have been necessary, and perhaps the Sl.lm provided in the Appropriation Bill for the purpose of engaging extra staff for the Department of Labor and Immigration could have been saved or put to a more productive purpose. 
It is true that the Government has reversed many of its economic policies and has adopted a number of those proposed by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  which, incidentally, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  rubbished and ridiculed in his usual manner during the election campaign last May. Despite the actions taken by the Government there are still more than 300 000 people unemployed and inflation is still running at approximately 20 per cent per annum. The Government just does not seem to know how to cope with the situation. I would like to read an extract from the March 1975 bulletin published by the Australian Industries Development Association, which came to my desk yesterday. Under the heading 'The Crisis in Manufacturing Industry ' it says: 
The actions taken by the Government in November and December 1974 have not revived manufacturing industry activity and employment. The additional actions taken in January 197S are unlikely to have any early or marked effect on the situation, outside of the automotive industry. .. . Additional strong and effective measures are required to pull manufacturing industry out of its current situation, otherwise recovery will be long and slow and extremely damaging to Australia's industrial structure. The present situation in manufacturing industry is as follows: 
Demand, on local industry, continues in general to deteriorate; retrenchments accordingly are continuing widely throughout industry; investment is still in decline. 
Quite plainly, urgent action to ensure the survival of much of Australian manufacturing industry is necessary. The present crisis does not lend itself to the theories and experiments of recent years, which have played their pan in bringing about the current situation. The action that is needed can be taken only by the Australian Government. If it fails to take the necessary action promptly, industry decline and unemployment growth will continue throughout 1975, with the number of unemployed exceeding half a million before June. 
It is not a pretty picture. I would like to commend to the Treasurer a 57-page booklet called National Economic Program 1975 ', which is the Liberal and Country parties' economic policy and assessment dated 10 February 1975. He should read it. It was well received by the Press. 
He may have seen some of the leading articles in the Press, but in case he did not I will read to him the headings on a few of them. The Melbourne Herald' said: 'Snedden plan makes sense'. The Melbourne 'Age' said: 'Snedden makes economic sense'. The 'Westralian' said: 'The road back'. The 'Courier-Mail' said: 'A policy for survival'. The leading articles in practically every newspaper in Australia were very similar. This Government since taking office has led this country down the path of economic decline. It has moved from crisis to crisis, and most of them have been of its own making. On behalf of the unemployed and others in my electorate who have suffered I protest strongly. The Liberal and Country Parties have a plan to deal with the present economic crisis. It is set out in our national economic program for 1975 and I hope the Treasurer will  read  it and adopt its recommendations. 
In the few moments left to me I should like to speak briefly on another subject and in perhaps a lighter vein. We have seen much bitterness and contention in this Parliament in recent weeks and much has been said in serious debate about the breaking of conventions. One such convention was the decision of this Government not to award the traditional honours and to substitute a new Australian set of orders. Whilst I personally have no objection to Australian awards there is someone in Melbourne who apparently has. This gentleman forwarded to me a satirical poem in the true Bazza McKenzie style and in concluding my speech I should like to read it to the House. It is headed: 'Gough's Given Us the Gong' and is purportedly written by a recipient of an award. The poem is as follows: 
GOUGH'S GIVEN US THE GONG 
My Order of Oz, 
Or should it be OOOZ 
Was acquired because 
Of me liking for booze. 
Now me mate and his spouse, 
Nouveau Socialist, 
Wait on Government House 
For their Oz (Civil List). 
Our Ozzie G.G., 
No doubt frowns upon gongs 
For us bourgeoisie 
And lower class nongs. 
Stick your old C.M.G., (no doubt it's a fake), 
Up your old family tree- 
Give the peasants a break! 
You'll get your Awards, 
Same as all in your street, 
Without dipping of swords, 
We 're the new Oz elite. 
Hang on just a minute, 
We 're not ALL the same. 
Ifeveryone'sinit, 
Who's to know you 've won fame? 
Our republican land (note our flag stan to redden) 
Things ARE out of hand- 
Second thoughts,I'll back Snedden! 
I direct a question to the Minister for Education. Is the Minister aware of the statement by the Director of Secondary Education in Victoria that more than 2000 students in Victoria alone have already transferred from non-government schools to state secondary schools this year? Does he realise that rising teacher salaries and costs have caused A category schools, such as Wesley College in Melbourne and other similar schools, to raise their basic fees- I stress the words 'basic fees'- for senior students to $1,700 a year? Is he concerned that those schools are now becoming the province solely of the children of wealthy parents? 
-Today at question time I raised with the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  a statement which had been made by the Victorian Director of Secondary Education,  Mr Roy  Francis, that in Victoria alone to date this year more than 2,000 students had transferred from non-government schools to state secondary schools. I raise the matter again tonight because I am concerned that because of the present Government's policies, the so-called A class schools are becoming purely the province of the children of wealthy parents. I believe this mass transfer of students from non-government schools to state schools, taken together with falling enrolments and the drying up or vanishing of waiting lists in independent schools, is a very disturbing trend in our present education system. Under previous Liberal-Country Party Governments, parents were assisted by a system of per capita grants to send their children to schools other than state schools if they so wished. Now however, a trend is clearly emerging that those parents who wish to send their children to independent schools are finding the fees too high and are either sending their children to government schools or deferring the enrolment of their children in non-government schools to a later stage of schooling. 
The figure of 2000 given by the Director for Victoria thus grossly under-estimates the full gravity of the situation because it takes no account of those being held back, who under other circumstances would have been enrolled at an earlier stage. A number of parents defer the enrolment of their children and, instead of entering them at junior school level or even Form 1 level, they enter them at Form 3 or even later. This trend is noticeable in a large C class girls' school in Melbourne, of which I have particular knowledge. There enrolments in the junior school have fallen, and quite noticeably boarding school enrolements have also fallen. Most non-government schools are in the same predicament. This trend of lowered enrolments of course does not lessen the running costs of the schools. Teachers' salaries are rising steeply, costs are rising and of course inflation is taking its toll. However the drop in enrolments does cause a sharp fall in the schools' income. So the vicious circle goes on. Fees must rise amd more parents find that they cannot meet those fees. It is all very sad. 
A recent survey conducted by the Association of Independent Schools of Victoria showed that the average income of parents with children at independent schools was approximately $ 14,000 a year. It also showed that 44.8 per cent of mothers with children in high fee schools work to supplement their husbands' incomes with the clear intention of putting their children through these schools. Surely these people cannot be called wealthy when their incomes are the result of 2 people working. Wesley College in Melbourne is currently charging basic fees for higher school certificate of $556 per term, a sum of $1,668 per annum before any extras are added. Trinity Grammar in Melbourne at the same level charges $417 per term or $1,251 per annum. Both are A class schools. The situation of rising fees is further exacerbated by the Australian Labor Government's policy on per capita grants to so-called A class schools, and by the decision of this Government to reduce the allowable taxation deduction for education expenses from the long established $400 to $150. Is it any wonder that enrolments at non-government schools are falling away as has been revealed by the statement of the Director in Victoria. Is it any wonder that we hear such alarming figures from the Victorian Director of Secondary Education? Parents are not transferring their children from nongovernment schools by choice. The decision is being forced upon them by cold hard financial reality. This Government's policy towards what it calls A class schools is not preventing the wealthy from sending their children to these schools. They have the resources and are in a better position than most to keep pace with inflation. It is the average to middle income group which is really being hurt. They are just not able to keep pace with inflation and the rise in fees which has become inevitable. These schoods are becoming purely the province of children of wealthy parents, and I believe that this is very wrong. 
It is rather ludicrous that a government which claims to be against class distinction should be responsible for creating it in what it calls A class schools. Brother Noonan, the headmaster of St Leo's Christian Brothers College in my electorate, stated last week that it is an undeniable fact that the whole independent school system is being placed in jeopardy, and yet St Leo's is in a different position from the schools I have just mentioned. It is an F class school and it is keeping its fees at the lowest possible level- $80 per term or $240 per annum. Enrolments there have remained reasonably steady and the fees reasonable, mainly because a very much lower salary is paid to the brothers- $2,700 in comparison with the very much higher salaries of the independent and government school teachers. However, even this school feels that the quality of education offered is suffering because the school is not able to give what it considers is a comprehensive education. It is not able to offer a wide range of subjects. It feels that its curriculum is narrow when compared with that of high schools and other independent schools. This comes about because St Leo's aims to keep its fees low so that education at that school may remain within the reach of the average Catholic parent who wishes to choose an education other than a State school education for his children. Clearly, more assistance and better grants are required, and it is vital that these schools receive more aid than they have received to date if they are to maintain and improve their standards. 
I now turn briefly to another aspect of the Government's education policy so far as it affects schools. This scheme has as its aim the provision of financial assistance to parents with limited financial resources to enable them to keep their children at school during forms 5 and 6- a commendable aim, I think we would all agree. The maximum allowance is $450, subject to a means test, and the full amount is payable when a family's adjusted family income does not exeed $3,500 a year. For each $5 by which the adjusted family income exceeds this amount the allowance paid is reduced by $1. The figure of $3,500 is extremely low- approximately $73 weeklyand is far too low to benefit any but a few- a very few. Surely now that tertiary education is free, we should also endeavour to see that as many as possible children of parents on below average to low incomes should be assisted to remain at school in these vital years if they are to have equal opportunities with other children of proceeding to tertiary education. At $5,675 per annum of adjusted family income, the minimum allowance received is $15 per annum. That amount would be of little help to people in this or any other income bracket. Bearing in mind that this Government has reduced the amount of tax deduction allowed for education from $400 to $150 and the high rate of inflation, parents on adjusted incomes of $5,675 or higher clearly will be struggling to keep their children at school in these crucial years. I feel that the amount is quite unrealistic and clearly inadequate. I urge the Minister for Education to give his immediate attention to re-assessing this figure and bringing it up to a more adequate level so that more needy parents will be able to benefit from this scheme. 
-The title of this Bill is a complete misnomer. One could be forgiven for assuming on reading its title- the Homes Savings Grant Bill- that this Bill was bestowing some type of grant on young couples to assist them obtain a home. But its effect is quite the opposite. In fact it abolishes such a grant. In commencing his second reading speech in this House on 16 April 1975 the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  said: 
The purpose of the Bill is to give effect to the Government's decision to terminate the home savings grant scheme. 
I believe that the operative words in that statement are 'to terminate'. It was a very bad statement, a statement which sounded the death knell for many young Australian couples engaged in a struggle to obtain the necessary funds to bridge the deposit gap to own or build homes in which to bring up their families. I for one would not argue against the principle of allowing tax deductions for interest paid on a housing loan connected with a taxpayer's principal residence, although there are a lot of anomalies apparent in the scheme which the Government is bringing forward today. Both schemes have obvious merit, but why abolish the well proven home savings grant scheme which, since its establishment in 1964, has assisted one-third of a million young Australian couples to bridge the deposit gap to buy their own home. 
In the last financial year alone over 40 000 applications were made, over 95 per cent of which were approved. There is no doubt that there is a very popular demand by young couples for this sort of assistance yet this Bill abolishes it. For the average Australian the most drastic impact of this Bill will not be the tax deductibility of mortgage interest on housing loans. That is a relatively small and essentially negative taxation issue. What this Bill will really affect is the ability of young married couples, perhaps for ever, to enter into contracts for the purchase or the construction of their matrimonial home. What use is rendering mortgage interest rates tax deductible to couples who may never have a chance to own their own home? 
This Bill may assist some income earners who already own a home to meet their interest payments, but it does nothing to help young couples obtain a home in the first place. It helps those with homes, not those endeavouring to obtain them. It does not in any way assist a couple's ability to collect and put down a deposit for a home in hard cash. Yet the existing home savings grant does exactly that. It assists young couples to accumulate a sufficient sum to make up the necessary deposit on a home with the aid of a pro rata grant from the Government based on the amount of their savings. A grant of $1 was made for every $3 saved. 
I have always believed there were unnecessary pettifogging anomalies in the present scheme. Some of these were referred to by my colleague, the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay).  Certainly inflation under this Government has made a laughing stock of the maximum grant of $750 for a saving of $2,250 and the limitation of eligibility to those under 36 years of age always has seemed to me an unnecessary restriction. But surely the Government should be looking to improve the present well proven and popular home savings grant scheme by amendment instead of phasing it out and eventually getting rid of it. As I have said, the present scheme has enabled one-third of a million young married in a little over 10 years to augment their savings to pay a deposit on their home. It has provided young couples with the opportunity to get their feet right into the front door of their matrimonial home. Yet this Government has decided to abolish this assistance. 
It should be recognised that both schemes, the home savings grant scheme and the deductibility of interest mortgage scheme, are designed to give financial assistance to home buyers. But they are designed to give assistance to 2 different and distinctive groups of home buyers. They are 2 completely different, and in many ways complementary schemes. Neither one can replace the benefits bestowed by the other. However, the Government apparently regards the 2 schemes as alternatives and is replacing one, the home savings grant scheme, with the other, the deductibility of interest mortgage scheme. Well over 70 per cent of families in Australia are buying or own their own homes. Most Australians aspire to this state. However, most young couples experience great initial difficulty in raising the deposit and the initial finance to purchase a home. 
Home ownership confers various external social benefits apart from the personal benefit received by the owner. It bestows also benefits on the community, such as a more stable, hardworking, contented populace and therefore a better Australian. When the home savings grant scheme was introduced by the Menzies Government in 1964, it was introduced because the Liberal-Country Party Government of the day believed it would satisfy a most desirable objective. We still adhere to that view today. We believe that it is the right of all Australians to have the opportunity, indeed the encouragement, to own their own homes if they so desire. We certainly do not believe, as a Minister in a former Labor Government claimed, that owners are 'little capitalists'. Housing is vital to the welfare and happiness of the individual family. It is essential to the process of marriage and family life. The best homes will be those in which the occupier has a stake. The present state of housing finance in Australia, however, gives cause for serious concern. 
Figures supplied by the Department of Housing and Construction late last year show that the cost of an adequate or average type home, whichever that may be, was $22,500 in 1972. At the present rate of inflation under this Government, it has been estimated- and these figures are probably conservative- that the cost of a similar type of home will have risen to $39,000 by mid-1975, $46,000 by mid-1976 and will have reached $55,000 by mid- 1977. My colleague, the honourable member for Boothby, also referred to these figures. In short, this means that home prices in Australia today are rising at the unbelievable rate of $100 every week. It is just not possible for today's savings to keep up with tomorrow's price increases, let alone to outpace them. What chance have young couples of coping with these staggering costs? 
The Government should be assisting these young people instead of taking away the assistance that they have been given under the homes savings grant scheme in the past by former Liberal-Country Party governments. The same statistical source- that is, the Department of Housing and Construction- indicates that 91 per cent of all new home buyers have an income below $10,000 per annum and that 58 per cent have an income not exceeding $8,000. It is obviously difficult for people in these income brackets to save more than $ 1,500 per annum on average. At present 96 per cent to 98 per cent of all new home purchasers are obliged to resort to finance in order to complete their commitments. Statistics indicate that 80.9 per cent of all finance arrangements are with what may be termed commercial interests, such as banks and building societies. The combination of these main factorsthat is, the cost, purchaser's income and the necessary resort to commercial finance- results in increasing difficulties facing young couples, especially with regard to their ability to complete payments on their new homes. 
The abolition by the Labor Government under this Bill of the vital deposit gap grant will make it increasingly difficult for newly married couples to buy a home either now or in the foreseeable future. Did the Australian people who voted this Government into office in 1 972 in the belief that it was no longer socialist give it a mandate to take away this grant? I do not think so. This Government preens itself on what it terms its dedication to social welfare. Yet in endeavouring to uphold this abstract concept as its first priority, the Government has plainly jettisoned the young married couples of Australia as a group without any legislative priority. These young people have been sold down the drain. For them Labor's social welfare dream has become a social welfare nightmare. 
Due to the high rate of inflation under this Government, and as a result of increased building costs and the general deterioration of economic conditions which have come about since this Government took office, it is clear that the provisions of the homes savings grant scheme need review. This is a review which should extend and increase the size of the grant rather than scrap it altogether as this Government intends to do. Because of the sharp and continuing rises in land and building costs, I would like to see a government, be it Liberal or Labor, increase the homes savings grant to a meaningful sum, that is, a sum of approximately $1,500 or $2,000. Taking into account the rapidly rising costs and accelerating inflation, an increase in the size of the grant to such an amount would enable a potential purchaser to catch the bus at present prices instead of being left at the kerb as he or she most certainly will be if this Bill is passed and the homes savings grant scheme is repealed. 
The new tax deductibility of mortgage interest payments will offer potential young home buyers of Australia no assistance whatsoever as, under the Labor Government's proposal to scrap the homes savings grant, they will not be in a position to enter into a mortgage in the first place. The Government's scheme benefits only those who have already purchased a home. It ignores the 1 8 to 30 year old group who are not only a large percentage of the population but also are those people who will mould the future of Australia. Further, they are the people who could bring about a change in government at the next election, and I hope that they do. 
In addition, the DMI scheme has a regressive impact in the lower ranges of the income scale. It maximises the deduction in respect of an income- and this may be a combined income for a married couple-of approximately $8,000 per annum. The scheme gives less benefit to higher income earners above $8,000 per annum and cuts out on a sliding scale altogether when the combined income of the husband and wife reaches $14,000. A couple does not need to be wealthy, if both are working, to have a combined income of $ 1 4,000 per annum. 
Yet this scheme is regressive also in the lower income ranges up to about $7,000 a year. For instance, the tax saving for a taxpayer and his wife, with 3 dependants, on $8,000 per annum is $338.40, compared with a saving for a taxpayer in the same family situation on $5,000 per annum-that is $3,000 less-of only $145.12. This is less than half the amount received by the comparable family on $8,000 per annum. A person in the eligible income range who wishes to buy a more costly house with a larger mortgage receives more benefit than a person with similar income who chooses to buy a cheaper house with a smaller mortgage. Those paying off a house who do not pay tax, such as pensioners, whose mortgages are nearing complete repayment, get no benefit at all. These are some of the anomalies under this scheme which this Government is introducing today. 
We on this side of the House believe that the socialistic approach of the present Government to all aspects of the way of life of the citizens of this country violates the fundamental rights and desires of Australians right into the very front door of their home, as this legislation shows. If the Labor Government is successful with this type of legislation, we will find growing up a new generation of Australians, many of whom will be obliged to rent their home for the term of thennatural life. The young people of Australia in future will be denied all the security, freedom of choice and expresson, and stable family life which are a direct product of home ownership, and which most Australians have grown to accept as of right. If this Bill is passed and the present scheme of assistance is brought to an end, there will be no legislation left on the statute books to assist the rapidly increasing numbers of first home buyers seeking home ownership. 
The homes savings grant scheme is consistent with the Liberal-National Country Party philosophies of encouraging independence and self-reliance among Australian people. It is the antithesis of the socialist philosophy of dependence and subservience to bureaucracy and to government. If enabling young Australians to own their own homes causes them to become 'little capitalists', we as Liberals make no apology for that. On this issue alone I as a Liberal ask the Australian people to decide what they most desire. Do they desire the removal of the existing grant as proposed by the Labor Government under this legislation, or do they desire an - increase in this most vital grant to a realistic sum after a Liberal-Country Party Government is returned to office at the next election? I believe the answer will clearly be the latter. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Darling) (4.35)-The honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  in opening his speech complained about the Government's cutting down on the number of speakers on the Opposition side. He then went on to spend a deal of time on Medibank and later on moved to Tasmania and back again, making sure that he used the full 30 minutes of his time. I cannot see how the Government can allow a larger number of speakers if the tactics of the Opposition are to waste the time of the House. He later complained about the Government's advertising the benefits of the scheme we are now considering. I hope the Government clearly indicates to the people just what are the benefits under this scheme, because one of the failings with the present home savings grant scheme is that a lot of people who did not understand the regulations failed to obtain benefits under the scheme. 
I am an enthusiastic supporter of the Homes Savings Grants Bill 1975. 1 believe that anyone who has spent the greater part of his life as a low income earner would know the effort it takes to become a home owner. He would be conscious of the security and the well-being that come with home ownership. Like myself he would have to delay obtaining many luxuries of life or put them aside to reach a position of home ownership. He would welcome the Bill and the generous assistance it gives to home seekers. The Bill, which is aimed at replacing the homes savings grants scheme with a scheme for tax deductibility of mortgage interest on housing loans, would be recognised by low income earners as a milestone in the history of home ownership for those in the lower income bracket. It not only gives them a large amount of assistance but it also covers a wider area of home seekers. 
The original Homes Savings Grant Act provided for a total grant of $750 for the few fortunate people who were able to qualify. However the majority seeking assistance in the past missed out on any assistance and some received greatly reduced assistance. Many failed to qualify for any assistance although they had to borrow large amounts and carry crippling mortgages in order to become home owners. Under the homes savings grant scheme being replaced many who were able to plan and save and who actually did plan and save for a home' failed to gain assistance because they were falsely advised where their money should have been saved. 
The Bill before the House will remove the confusion and injustice of the Homes Savings Grant Act 1964-73 and will provide a larger amount of assistance for those most in need of it. The tax deductibility scheme will mean for most home buyers a saving of around $8 per week, and for some it will mean a greater saving according to their income. The benefits of the scheme for a one income family receiving $6,000 a year with a $15,000 loan will be $7.40 a week if the interest on their mortgage is 9Vi per cent. A family paying off a loan of the same amount at 12 per cent interest will gain a saving of $9.90 per week. We admit that high interest rates have been particularly painful for the Government, but as far as home purchasers are concerned we have found a very just solution. The best that 23 years of Liberal-Country Party government could give us was a scheme under which low income earners could not qualify to receive any benefit. 
I take this opportunity to explain to the House that persons who meet the eligibility tests for tax deductibility of mortgage interest and home savings grants may receive both benefits. 
What a windfall this will be for some young Australians. When has this kind of assistance been considered by the House before? No one can say that he has been penalised by the changeover period, as so often happened under the previous Government's legislation. The actions of the Government prove its sincerity and its concern for young couples seeking to become home owners. The memorandum handed out by the Minister during his second reading speech explains the provisions of the Homes Savings Grant Bill 1975 which, if it passes through this Parliament, will amend the Homes Savings 
Grant Act 1964-1973. It will leave no doubt in the minds of young Australian couples making in most cases their biggest lifelong investment to own a home. No government can wave a magic wand and solve the international problems of inflation and high interest rates, but the Government has done all that could be justified. It has taken over the greater part of the burden of the lower income families with a mortgage on their homes by allowing the mortgage interest to be tax deductible. 
The honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman)  said that the Government's approach was socialistic. It is regretted that when a Labor Government introduces measures such as this that give greater assistance to low income families we hear the cry of the Opposition that it is socialism. Some even go so far as to say that it is communism because it redistributes accessibility to housing finance and gives all Australians a more equal opportunity to become home owners. To anyone who seeks to put a name-tag on me because I support this Bill I say: Do not use Karl Marx's teaching as a measuring stick but rather St Mark's interpretation of the sermon on the mount, because I believe that such action is nearer to Christianity than it is to any 'ism', which the Opposition wants to tack on to the Labor Party. I believe it is the duty of any worth while government to look at Australian household standards, the standards we really need and the way our dwellings are actually used. We should consider what fair and just action can be taken to discourage people from using more of our housing resources than they need in these times of shortages. 
None of these things is easy. They cannot be achieved overnight. We need greater cooperation from industry. Many big companies could do much more to assist their employees to gain home ownership. They provide houses for their top staff but they let their daily paid employees find a house the best way they can. I believe that many companies would do well to study the practice of the Broken Hill mining companies. Not only do they assist the employees to form their own building societies and provide finance but they also provide plans and technical advice to employees building their own homes. Thirty years ago I built my own house under this assistance and today my son owns his home as a result of the same practice. If mining companies can do this, so can other companies. 
It appears to me that the ones who fall down most in this regard are the State governments, particularly Liberal-Country Party governments. An article which appeared in last Sunday's 'Telegraph' would give some indication of this. It says: 'Teachers live in sheds, caravans in country areas'. I took particular notice of this article because it mentioned part of my electorate. It goes on to say how the State Government is not assisting the teachers to obtain houses in the country. Yet there are plenty of houses in the country itself which, with a little bit of repair, would be quite satisfactory to the teachers. They have told me that. The Education Department has carpenters on its staff who go around fixing school desks and so forth. They would need to do only a little more and the opportunity would exist for these teachers to live m a house and to buy it if they wanted to stop there. 
The only complaint I have with respect to the newspaper article is that it states that housing assistance is provided for members of the police force. But this assistance is not provided for the police either. Some members of the police force in country areas have told me that they will leave unless they can purchase a satisfactory home. I believe the Australian Government is giving the lead in regard to making homes available to all Australians and it should get the support of the Opposition for these measures. It should also get the support of the State governments and industry. I wholeheartedly support the Bill before the House. 
I thank the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Hewson)  for those remarks. This Bill, the Administrative Appeals Bill 1975, together with the Ombudsman Bill, which I understand will be debated by this House in the next week, are, I believe, significant and sensible steps for the protection of individuals in an ever encroaching bureaucratic society. Both these Bills have, as their origin, what is technically known as the 'Final Report of the Committee on Administrative Discretions Act 1973'. It is more commonly known as the Bland report which was commissioned by the McMahon Government to look into the protection of individual rights. I am pleased that the present Governent is acting upon many of the submissions of the Bland report, but I must express regret that this Bill falls short in a number of respects of the recommendations of the Bland Committee. 
In the main, the provisions of the Bill will be a substantial step forward in establishing redress to individuals or non-governmental bodies in the area of administrative decisions. When this tribunal is formed, it will stand together with the existing judicial machinery of our legal system and also the facilities provided by a Federal ombudsman, should he be appointed under what is still the undebated Ombudsman Bill 1975. These 3 institutions will then be available to Australians in the protection of their liberty and the enforcement of their rights. 
When introducing this Bill to the House, the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  explained the connection between the Administrative Appeals Tribunal and the ombudsman, and the broad similarities of the 2 bodies' jurisdictions and functions. In the case of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal we are dealing with an institution of even greater significance than the ombudsman. In many ways, from the very nature of the position of the ombudsman, certain limitations of scope and operation necessarily exist. But with regard to this Tribunal we are faced with a legislative proposal which does not merely aim at supplementing our liberties, but with one which is aimed actually at altering and adding to our judiciary system in a quite substantial manner. 
For those of us who are not by profession lawyers, the subject of administrative law may well be a rather nebulous and unqualified area At present, administrative law consists of the review of discretions which have been bestowed on very many officers and offices both throughout the Public Service and other private bodies. It relates to the organisation, powers and duties of these authorities. Broadly speaking, a discretion exists where an officer or office has power to make decisions within a certain area but precise rules as to what decisions must be made in what precise circumstances have not correspondingly been laid down. In these cases, a discretion or certain leeway exists, and it is within that leeway that a whole range of decisions may be possible. But simply because a leeway of choice may exist as to exactly what decision is finally made in a particular matter does not mean that the decisionmaking process is not subject to certain basic rules. For example, a decision is subject to administrative review when it has become beyond the scope of the power of the decisionmaker. Such decisions should be void for want of jurisdiction. 
Under present arrangements, claims and redress under administrative law are dispensed by the Supreme Court of the Australian States. For those in this House who are lawyers, it will be known that in practice this area of law is small, the legal implications of each decision are frequently complex and clumsy, and the process as a whole is costly and especially slow. All these matters which are at present decided through the courts may now be transferred to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal as the first major judicial overseer. Naturally there is provision in this Bill for questions of law to be referred back to the courts for decision. 
But besides these matters, the Administrative Appeals Tribunal will also deal with a wide range of other administrative matters which have previously not been heard by the courts owing to particular regulations providing for particular appeal tribunals in special matters. There are many and varied boards of appeal and review which already operate and fall within this category. As the Attorney-General explained, it is intended that the departments within which these presently miscellaneous bodies operate shall in the future be approached by his Department with a view to determining the suitability of transferring their particular functions into the one centralised appeals tribunal. 
Personally I can see several general advantages to this intended transfer of administrative questions to a single central tribunal: Firstly, it shall consolidate resources, expertise, experience and knowledge all of which at present are scattered throughout the departments under no easily recognisable pattern and most frequently on a part-time basis. Secondly, it should cut down routine and incidental running costs. Thirdly, it would provide a direct and centralised source of redress for all matters of an administrative nature. Fourthly, as a necessary consequence, it would develop and clarify the principles of administrative law and review. The Tribunal would have the power to affirm, modify, reverse, substitute or return for redecision, any matter upon which an appeal was lodged. Clearly, these powers are wide and substantially more comprehensive than those already existing in the hands of the courts. 
The new Tribunal which under this Bill will shortly become the principal body of review would in future be able to proceed directly from its decision on the merits of each case to awarding the most appropriate remedy. Previouslyand as is the present situation- the courts have been hamstrung in their operations in administrative review because of the restrictions on their power and ability to provide remedies which do not first require resort back to the original administrative body from which the cause to appeal arose. This streamlining of the administrative process, through a single appeals body which can both hear the entire question and immediately and without undue delay award the appropriate remedy will inevitably increase the facility to obtain effective judicial redress on administrative questions- which at present is far from assured. These advantages lead one to hope that for the first time in Australian legal history the laws and processes of administrative review will become of some real and practical assistance to the community at large. It is also my hope that the operation of administrative review shall become more efficient and speedy and that its capacity as a source of redress shall become more clearly defined and capable of being understood. 
Administrative review is a major area in the law. Yet, owing to the lack of facilities and priority given to it under existing arrangements, in the past it has not had any real significant impact on the Australian community other than upon a selective group of academic lawyers. While supporting the Bill the Opposition is critical of its provisions because it does not spell out completely the power of the Tribunal to the extent which the Bland Committee recommended. I believe the Opposition in the Committee stage will move an amendment designed to do just that. 
I believe the step taken by the Government today is one which will effectively bring within the reach of the normal Australian citizen the right of redress in administrative matters. In his daily life, the citizen is affected almost unceasingly by one or other kind of administrative decision. Now, for the first time, he shall win the ability to subject these matters to independent and constantly available review; and, I believe, it shall astound the average person just how extensive in its daily implications this facility for effective administrative redress shall ultimately prove to be. 
I support the concept of a family court. Divorce is a traumatic experience for the parties involved and courts of law are frightening places even for the most hardened criminals. I think that if a family court is able to deal with the problems of marriage and of family life that is sufficient reason to establish such a court. Whether it is a court in real terms or whatever it is, if it is a court which takes some of the trauma out of what couples in this situation have to go through it is well worth while. If such a specialist court can help in reconciliation, I think it is well worth while establishing it. If such a court reduces the trauma experienced in a divorce situation, I think all the arguments about costs should be forgotten and should not be regarded as valid propositions against setting up this sort of court. That is why I support the establishment of the Family Court. 
-One of the features of the original Bill which appealed to me was the elimination of fault, not only because of the bitterness which is engendered by fault being brought into a divorce but also because of the publicity and embarrassment which comes with it. However, I did feel that the period of 12 months separation, as contained in the original Bill, was too short. I think all honourable members agree that it is a matter of j judgment whether it should be 12 months or 24 months. I agree with the amendment of the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  which provides for 24 months separation, and 12 months separation when there is mutual consent. I was concerned, and I am still concerned, that paragraph (c) of that amendment will reintroduce fault. I believe the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  also pointed out this matter when he spoke. I think there should be a clause which, without involving an injunction, allows people who, between one day and 12 months, find that due perhaps to bashings or to some other reason they cannot continue living together to petition for divorce. 
Paragraph (c) of the amendment of the honourable member for Wentworth makes provision for this situation. Therefore, I feel that it would be right and proper if it were retained in the amendment even though I do not like the reintroduction of fault into the Bill. I am assured that the proposed provision will operate in a small minority of cases only and I am also assured that the hearings of these cases will be in camera. As the hearings will be in a closed hearing, the publicity and most of the embarrassment that could result from fault being proven, will be eliminated. I support the amendment of the honourable member for Wentworth and will vote accordingly. 
-In the circumstances I am quite happy to allow it to lapse. 
This amendment is to omit 'in circumstances arising out of a marital relationship' and substitute 'with respect to the personal protection of a party to the marriage or of a child of the marriage, or the property of a party to the marriage, which are in relation to any matrimonial cause then before the court'. This amendment was moved because I felt that the maintenance procedures should be limited to protecting a party's rights and should not be brought just for the purpose of protecting a party's point of view. I would be interested to hear the views of the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  on that matter. I would just like to make sure that the clause may not be used to protect a party's point of view rather than a party's right. I assume that this point is covered. Can the Attorney-General advise me on that? 
Question resolved in the negative. 
I address my question to the Minister for Environment. I refer to the occasion when this House was debating the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act 1 974. 1 ask: Why did the Minister and his Department ignore the Prime Minister's correspondence to the Minister for Minerals and Energy dated 26 November, indicating approval to DillinghamMurphyores of its application to negotiate overseas contracts? How does he justify his actions and those of the Government in this regard? 
-On the front page of the Melbourne 'Herald ' last night was an article headed 'Canberra Shadow'. I should like briefly to read it to the House. It states: 
The shadow of Canberra falls across almost everything the Australian States do. 
More and more, decisions on how the States spend their money are being taken by the Federal Government. 
This intrusion into State affairs in the most minute detail by the Federal Government, is worrying the men who run the States. 
Peter Game has been talking to Victoria's Premier,  Mr Hamer,  and some of the   State's top public servants. 
He reports his findings in a series of three articles beginning in the Herald tomorrow. 
That, of course, is today. The report continues: 
The series makes disturbing reading. 
I think it is rather significant that that article appeared just at this stage. As the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said, this is not the first time that the Superior Court of Australia Bill has been brought before this Parliament Most speakers for and against this legislation almost without exception have been lawyers. Consequently, much of the debate has centred on legal technicalities. As one with only a limited knowledge of the  law I should like to put forward a layman 's point of view on this Bill because it is the average Australian citizen such as myself who will be affected by the provisions of this legislation. Too many important principles are at stake to leave the arguments for or against this legislation purely to members of the legal profession. This remark is made in no way as a reflection on colleagues who have been trained as practitioners in this profession. 
My opposition to this Bill as a layman arises from my sense of unease at its implications. This is a major piece of legislation in the judicial field. It proposes the establishment of a completely new and separate court within federal jurisdiction. The Superior Court would have all the extensive powers and sanctions necessary for a senior court- life tenure of its bench, the contempt powers, the ability to impose the penalty of imprisonment and the capacity to hear appeals. No one would deny that this Bill is indeed a comprehensive and wide-ranging document. My sense of unease arises precisely from this very degree of comprehensiveness and detail. The question which immediately springs to one's mind is: Why is this new court necessary? That is not an unreasonable query for a layman and a taxpayer, especially when one considers the immense cost involved in establishing a new and nation-wide court network. Not once in all the preceding debates on this Bill has the Government effectively shown that this new court is necessary because of the inadequacies of the existing system, a system in which State supreme courts administer the large bulk of federal matters. Under this Bill it is planned to transfer these matters to the Superior Court. 
In his second reading speech the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Enderby)  explained that it was the 'growing body of federal law in the new areas'- I stress his words- that in part at least precipitated a need for this new federal court. He cited the existing areas of federal jurisdiction- industrial matters, trade practice matters, certain administrative appeals, bankruptcy and income tax. He then proceeded to the new areas of consumer protection and the regulation of the securities and exchange industry. With such a collection of matters falling within federal jurisdiction one could argue that it might indeed be desirable that a system should be devised to clarify and to unify the operation of the courts. 
However, this would not be the true effect of this legislation. The true effect of the Bill would be to remove from the State supreme courts all those matters which they presently administer under section 77 (iii) of the Constitution and to re-direct them to the Superior Court. It would redirect the bulk of matters within the original jurisdiction of the High Court into the Superior Court, leaving the High Court principally a constitutional and appellate tribunal. Many matters presently subject to appeal to the High Court would, under this Bill, be re-directed to the Superior Court and any matters deserving appeal from this massive Superior Court would be able to proceed to the High Court only by the leave of that court or of the Superior Court itself. 
Not only will this court seize unto itself a vast body of matters of federal jurisdiction, but it shall also hoard and swallow them finally without resort to the High Court. Clause 38 of this Bill denies the automatic right of appeal to the High Court as such. This is a most significant and important feature of the legislation. When this proposal is seen in this light- even if we disregard for immediate purposes all other equally important questions such as necessity, cost and the complexity this court would create within our judicial system, if we focus solely on the aspect of the massive re-direction of jurisdiction into this Court, together with the denial of the right of appeal to the High Court- it must become clear that the result of this Bill will not be to streamline our judicial process, increase its efficiency or even to clarify it. 
The result of the passage of this legislation will be surreptitiously to abduct numerous matters from the jurisdiction of the States and place them under the centralised Superior Court in Canberra. It may well be argued that it is desirable to unify the operation of our judicial systems and our courts but this legislation is not the move of a unifier. This attempt to remove matters from the 
High Court and from the State supreme courts is just another example of the centralist thinking of this present Government. In his second reading speech the Attorney-General dealt in terms of existing federal matters and of new federal matters and he admitted that the jurisdiction of the Superior Court can and will be expanded by particular subsequent enactments. He cited consumer protection and trade practices as examples. 
The implications of this Superior Court Bill do not depend on whether it is really necessary or even desirable, neither of which I as a layman believe it is. The real issue under debate in this Bill is: Should the Australian Government threaten and undermine the powers of the States in the judicial field? It is not possible in this debate to argue for or against our present bilateral system of government and its accompanying system of justice. There may well be some difficulties in the Federal-State system under which we have lived for three-quarters of a century, but there are also many advantages. The Liberal Party has always believed in the protection of State rights because we believe they are essential in the best administration of government and the promotion of the rights of individuals. One cannot deny that technically the power to establish a federal court additional to the High Court is within the Constitution. That is beyond dispute. What I and others like me are concerned about is that ultimately this Government intends to use the Superior Court to rule on all manner of matters such as discrimination, environment, children, women, motor accidents, the stock exchange, corporations and trade unions. One could go on and on. 
The establishment of this additional federal court could well provide an unending incentive for backdoor attempts by a centralist government, such as the present one, to bypass constitutional heads of power and to expand its influence throughout the nation. If this legislation becomes law and the Superior Court is established there will be no end to the ultimate erosion of the States' powers in the hands of this Government. We will be told: 'We have the court. It is there to use. Let us use it'. We shall witness more and more power being transferred to the Commonwealth as it steadily expands the causes of action and the jurisdiction of its Superior Court. 
Only a few moments ago the Prime Minister admitted in this House that the aim of the Bill is to have fewer courts. He went on to say that the State courts had been 'lobbying'- I think that was the word he used- against this legislation. If that is so the reasons speak for themselves. The Attorney-General claims that one of the reasons for the establishment of this court is to relieve the strain of litigation on the State supreme courts. If the Attorney-General really desires to relieve the burdens of existing supreme court judges, he could quite simply correct the situation without resort to a most Costly, complex and elaborate scheme such as is proposed under this Bill. 
As the honourable gentleman well knows it would be far more simple just to splash a grant or two towards the States under section 96 of the Constitution for the expansion of their courts. This Government has a certain expertise in handing tied grants to the States. It has done so subtly often, and to its own political advantage. The State courts already exist and they operate effectively. It would prove a relatively small expense to expand them when compared to this proposal to create a new, separate and costly Commonwealth Court. The only viable reason which exists for the establishment of this court is based on the premise that Canberra, like father, knows best. I and my Liberal colleagues believe that Canberra is not the repository of all wisdom. I urge the House to reject this legislation. 
Question put: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I wish to support the shadow Minister for Foreign Affairs, the honourable member for Kooyong,  Mr Andrew  Peacock, on the remarks which he made during his speech. I wanted to speak in this debate today because I believe that it is an important- in fact one might say almost a momentous- occasion. On 16 September Papua New Guinea, our nearest neighbour, will become an independent nation. I am surprised from looking at the list of speakers that apparently the only honourable member on the Government side to speak on this subject is the Minister for Defence  (Mr Morrison).  I am sorry that he has endeavoured to make political capital out of such an occasion. 
Australians have a particular place in their hearts for Papua New Guinea. During the 1939-45 war many Australians gave their lives fighting the Japanese invaders in Papua New Guinea. They turned the tide, threw the Japanese out and saved not only Papua New 
Guinea but also Australia. I first visited Papua New Guinea in the early 1960s and, since becoming a member of this Parliament, have visited that country on numerous occasions. I have grown to like the people I have met and have learned to know. I have visited and talked to children in schools and was surprised at first to see that they knew as much as or more than thenAustralian counterparts about the various systems of government. I" believe that this augurs well for the future political stability of Papua New Guinea. 
I stood at dawn one Anzac morning at Alatau at Milne Bay where the first Australian soldier was shot in that area by the Japanese. I could not help but think that had he and the many others who lost their lives in Papua New Guinea been alive today they would have lived over half a life span and would have contributed much to the development of our own country. As it was, they contributed in another way. 
As a result of the 1 939- 1 945 War, Australians and Papua New Guineans have a link of respect and friendship which was forged with the blood of the New Guinea campaign. Never let us as a nation forget this. Australia has done a great deal for Papua New Guinea in the short time available to bring it to independence. Australia can hold its head high among the nations of the world in this regard. Even though the Minister for Defence has described us as a colonial power, we were not a colonial power in the true sense of the term. If we were such, we were a very benevolent colonial power. What we did in Papua New Guinea, we did in the interests of that country and its people and not in our own direct interest, although of course it is in our interest to have a stable and viable nation as our nextdoor neighbour. 
We can be proud of our record. True, there have been Australians in Papua New Guinea- I have met some of them- of whom we would not be proud, but they have been very much in the minority. The Australian official, be he Administrator or kiap, was there essentially to help the Papuan and the New Guinean learn to live with the twentieth century. He has done a magnificent job. In a few weeks time Papua New Guinea will become an independent nation. All Australians will wish it well. Papua New Guinea has been most fortunate in having as its Chief Minister, and very shortly its Prime Minister, Michael Somare, a dedicated leader who has done much to prepare his country for the role it must play in the community of nations. I congratulate the shadow Minister for Foreign Affairs, the honourable member for Kooyong, on the good rapport that he has set up with the future Prime Minister of Papua New Guinea. I think that when the Opposition comes back into government our relationship with  Mr Somare  will be an excellent one. 
There are and will continue to be a number of problems which face Papua New Guinea as it becomes an independent nation. One is economic. The Australian Government does not feel able to give Papua New Guinea more than a $2 10m allocation from the Australian Budget this year. The Minister for Defence has made excuses or given reasons, according to which way you look at it, for this allocation. As Australia's grant includes $49m for the employment security scheme for expatriate Australian public servants who are losing their jobs because of Papua New Guinea's independence, it is even less than it appears. It is indeed regrettable that the grant is not larger. Much remains to be done in that country if it is to continue to grow and to prosper. There are very strong humanitarian reasons for increasing our overseas aid to Papua New Guinea, and one cannot help contrasting the attitude of the Australian Labor Party to overseas aid now that it is in government with its attitude when it was in Opposition. I hope that those people who took part in Action for World Development during the 1 972 election campaign when the Liberal and Country Parties were in government Will take note. 
The Papua New Guinea Government faces problems of a serious nature during its formative years. I do not believe that there is a real threat of secession by Papua, but the position with Bougainville may prove to be quite different. Bougainville, with the Conzinc Riotinto of Australia Ltd copper mine at Panguna, is now a wealthy island, and one can understand the people of Bougainville saying: 'Why should we contribute to keeping the rest of Papua New Guinea?' If Papua New Guinea is to grow to nationhood it must do so as a strong and united country. With so much to be spent on development, it is likely that Papua New Guinea will have little left over to provide for its defence. Australia may well need to offer special assistance and training in this regard. It is only a matter of months ago that this Government and its then Minister for Defence were telling us: 'Don't worry. There is no threat to Australia for at least 15 years.' How hollow those words sound today, with a CiVil war raging close to Australia 's shores in Portuguese Timor! Many people believe that the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics has Supplied arms to the pro-communist Fretilin movement in Portuguese Timor in the hope of obtaining bases in the area if Fretilin is successful. Portuguese Timor is frighteningly close to Papua New Guinea. It is also frighteningly close to Australia. With a left wing government in Timor, the USSR might well aim to extend its influence into Papua New Guinea. Any moves in this direction would need to be watched carefully by both the Australian Government and the Papua New Guinea Government. 
What of Australia's future relationship with Papua New Guinea? Australia stands in a special relationship to that country. It is of the greatest importance to Australia that we have a strong, friendly, economically viable Papua New Guinea as our neighbour. We must still be prepared to stand by with help, assistance and expertise if we are asked for them. We must continue to channel a large percentage of our overseas aid to Papua New Guinea. We must build up trading relations between our 2 countries. Papua New Guinea exports should be given most favoured treatment in Australia. For many years we have been pouring money into Papua New Guinea but have continued to buy such imports as tea from India and Ceylon and coffee and cocoa from South America, and one could go on and on. I would to see Australia take positive steps to let imports from Papua New Guinea which do not compete with Australian products enter Australia free of duty. I put this proposition to the  Deputy  Prime Minister, or the ex-Deputy Prime Minister- it is difficult to keep up with them at the moment- the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns),  at one time. He promised to look into it, but I have heard nothing further from him. Not only would this sort of action be of substantial help to the Papua New Guinea economy, but it would draw the 2 nations even closer together. The more trade we have, the closer we will become. 
I commend the governments of Australia, both present and past, for what has been achieved in bringing Papua New Guinea to nationhood and independence. No doubt there are many problems ahead for Papua New Guinea, and they probably Will be great problems. I believe that there is immense goodwill and great affection in Australia towards the new independent nation to our north. I am sure that I am expressing the view of all Australians when I say that we wish Papua New Guinea well in the future. 

 -Mr Speaker, it is very pleasing to be speaking here tonight; I am sorry that I have dragged you away from the dinner which we both enjoyed with our Japanese visitor. 
Because of the economic situation in which Australia finds itself after almost 3 years of Labor rule, this Budget should have been the most vital Budget in the post-war period. When the Whitlam Government came to office in 1 972 it inherited what most people believed was a sound economy. Inflation was running at a modest  4V4  per cent and unemployment at a rate of a little over 1 per cent. Today, inflation in Australia is around 17 per cent and unemployment is running at almost 5 per cent. The aim of this Budget should have been to achieve a turn-round from the downward trend or direction, if honourable members wish to put it that way, in which we have been heading in the last 3 years. If this was its overall objective, I believe that it will not succeed. 
The Whitlam Government has been in office for 3 years. It has brought down 3 Budgets, and it has had as many Treasurers. The first 2 Budgets were highly inflationary. It is widely agreed that most of our economic malaise today can be laid at the door of the policies of this Government in that period. However, in this Budget, it would appear that the Treasury has at least been listened to, even though its recommendations have been watered down to suit the internal POlitiCS of the Labor Party. But it is obvious that the damage which has been done over 3 years cannot be undone in just one Budget. 
This Budget must be judged on how it tackles the three major problems facing Australia today. Those problems are inflation, lack of business confidence and unemployment. In this regard, the Budget is most disappointing. It is obvious from the speech delivered by the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  that the Budget clearly assumes a continuing inflation rate of at least 16 per cent and wage rises of approximately 20 per cent to 22 per cent. In addition,  Mr Hawke,  the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, has predicted that despite this Budget- or perhaps because of it- by early 1976 the number of unemployed wa have reached 500 000 people, a horrifying 8 per cent of the work force. 
Any real stimulus to the business sector which provides three-quarters of all jobs is hard to find in this Budget. It is just not there. The Government claims that industry will be stimulated by the $120m tax cuts. But these tax cuts will certainly be offset by increased costs, increased wages, the higher excise on petrol, and other indirect charges such as the steep rises in telephone and postal rates. These increased charges are in themselves inflationary. The prospect of another massive deficit this financial year can only add to the effect. 
Let us look at some of the effects of the Budget. First, let us take the tax cuts. By reforming the income tax scale with the pretence of benefiting lower and middle income earners, the Government is just hoodwinking the Australian people. It is most experienced at doing just that. Taxation has grown in an immense way during the past few years. As the taxpayer's wage has increased to keep up with rapidly escalating prices, he or she has moved into a higher tax bracket. The proportion of his or her income paid in tax has increased annually. This situation will undoubtedly continue. Personal income tax payments alone last year increased by more than 40 per cent. If we add to this the effects of the increases in postal and telephone charges, the increased taxes on petrol, beer and cigarettes, and other day to day items, it will be seen that even taxpayers who are to receive a reduction on paper in their income tax contributions are no better off. In fact, it has been estimated that, on the average, each Australian family will pay in total tax $ 1 ,200 more in the coming year. 
The cost of Jiving for the average Australian will rise sharply as a result of the increase in indirect charges contained in the Budget. They are of course, as I have said, highly inflationary. The value of the dollar which has already fallen to 70c since the Whitlam Government took office in 1972 is, it is estimated, likely to fall to between 50c and 60c in the coming year. The Budget has unfortunately done little to revive confidence and faith in the future. Perhaps the major tiling which the Budget has done is to point out the proposed $2, 800m deficit showing that Australia is still living far beyond its means. It is obvious that the Budget will do little to solve the economy's 3 major problems of inflation, lack of business confidence and unemployment. 
Let us look at what this Budget will do to the average taxpayer if the predicted 22 per cent rise in wages comes his way and if inflation remains somewhere between 1 6 per cent and 18 per cent. Last year the average taxpayer earned around $8,000 and after the usual deductions paid about $1,300 in tax, leaving him with $6,700 to spend. This year his income will rise to $9,700 and he will pay tax of $2,280, leaving him with $7,420 to spend. So on paper he should be $720 better off. But he will need at least a 16 per cent rise in his wages just to keep pace with inflation. So in actual fact he will be worse off. His standard of living will fall. Then one must add on the increased indirect charges. Further proof that the taxpayer will be worse off is shown also by the Budget prediction that personal income tax will rise by more than 34 per cent to $ 10,340m in the coming year. 
But it is the young people who will really be hurt by this Budget. Earlier this year they saw the Whitlam Labor Government abolish the home savings grant scheme which, under previous Liberal-Country Party governments, had helped many thousands of young couples obtain the initial deposit for their own home. This Budget pushes these young people's dreams of ever owning a home further into the never-never. Young newly-married couples with no children who in the past have both worked in the early years of marriage to save for a home, are being offered no incentive and no help to save. Inflation eats into their savings, as does the tax man. Nor can they borrow all that they would like because of the high interest rates. A young man earning $7,000 a year, with no children and a working wife, saving to buy a home will pay an additional $256 in direct income tax as a result of this Budget in the coming year. Like the rest of the community, he will be slugged with the massive increase in indirect taxes. The same increase in tax, of course, hits the single or widowed elderly person on a fixed income. If such a person is between 65 and 69 years of age, he will also have been hit by the Labor Government's repudiation of its promise to abolish by the end of this year the means test for those people in that age bracket. 
-We intended to, and we would have done it had we won the election in 1972. It would have been done by now. This Government has come under extensive criticism for its past extravagances. One cannot help but feel that the expenditure of $1.2 5 m on the painting 'Blue Poles' which is supposed to be flaking; the expenditure of $100,000 to Germaine Greer to make a film on sex or some other topic which I understand will not even be made in Australia; the expenditure of $ 1,400m on Medibank; and the expenditure on the nationalisation of the Gidgealpa pipeline need not have taken place at this time when the economy is in the state to which this Government has brought it. It is a pity that the development of such essentials as housing, education and defence will be slowed down because of these past extravagances. This may not have been necessary if some of the past grandiose schemes of this Government had been deferred. 
In my State of Victoria the Minister for Housing,  Mr Dickie,  has complained bitterly about the low housing allocation and has stated that the Victorian Housing Commission's building program will have to be cut by two-thirds as a result of the Budget. He has stated that the Housing Commission in Victoria will be able to build only 700 homes between now and the end of the financial year instead of the anticipated 3000. A better allocation might have done something to absorb the large number of unemployed in the building and kindred industries as well as supplying families with badly needed housing. The Victorian Government sought $179m for its Housing Commission's building program and for co-operative housing in this financial year. Only $98m has been allocated of which just $69m will go to the Housing Commission; $46m of the $69m has already been effectively spent through tenders for new Commission homes. 
Now let us look at education. It would be fair to say that the Government's record in education in respect of the Government school system has been a good one in the past although its policies towards independent schools and the parents of children attending independent schools has left much to be desired. It is a pity that the Government has seen fit to delay for a year the introduction of the next triennial program for educational commissions.  Dr K.  R. McKinnon, the  Chairman  of the Schools Commission, has been most critical of this decision and I would like to quote what was said by  Dr McKinnon,  as reported in the Melbourne  Age.  He said: 
Non-acceptance of triennial planning has sharply eroded confidence, particularly as schools feel they have no real guarantees of financing beyond mid- 1 976. 
A new basis for financing beyond that date is urgently necessary both for rational planning and to remove the uncertainty which is causing apprehension and will quickly erode the gains in public confidence achieved in the 1974-75 biennium. 
A delay of a year will be far too long. 
The report said that  Dr McKinnon  also warned there could be some accommodation difficulties in Government and non-government schools for the start of the 1977 school year because of the educational provisions in the Budget. The Victorian Minister for Education,  Mr Lindsay  Thompson, has also warned of the effects of a cut back in funds for school buildings. The report of his comments in the Melbourne  Herald  of Monday, 25 August, read: 
He said the allocation of $9m for the first 6 months of 1 976 was an effective 60 per cent cut back in the allocation recommended by the Schools Commission. 
He said the Victorian Education Department would have to find another $12m to meet the cost of contracts already let for the first half of 1976. 'The last thing we want to do is stop the building of new schools', he said. 'But we are left between the devil and the deep blue sea with another $ 12m to find just to meet contracts already let. ' 
It was pleasing to note that defence expenditure was not cut back, although the 10.6 per cent increase is well below that required to keep pace with the rate of inflation. There has been a feeling on the part of service personnel, and I think we are all aware of it as members of this House who keep close contact with service personnel and talk to them, that in respect of equipment they have been neglected since the Labor Government came to office. With a flare up of civil war in Timor and the possible intervention of Indonesia so close to our shores I hope that we will see a more realistic approach being taken by Ministers in the Whitlam Government. We want no more talk about no threat to our shores for the next 15 years. How ludicrous that sounds in today's situation. The present situation shows how naive that sort of approach really is. 
The Opposition has been prepared to state where it believes this Budget is not in the best interests of Australia at present. But we have not stopped at that. On Tuesday night our Leader, Malcolm Fraser, the honourable member for Wannon, gave the Opposition parties' alternative to the Budget. He called for income taxes to be cut by $500m and advocated tax benefits to business to stimulate the economy and reduce unemployment. Surely inflation and unemployment are two of the biggest problems and factors facing this nation today. Those problems are nowhere near as bad overseas as they have become under this Government. Malcolm Fraser presented a sound and sane approach. 
The Budget which was presented last week just highlighted the Government's quandary. The Government had desired on the one hand to maintain its program to increase social welfare and on the other hand to meet the urgent need to curb inflation and unemployment and at the same time to stabilise the economy. It has fallen between 2 stools. In trying to do both it appears to have achieved neither. The Liberal and Country parties have clearly stated what we would do in these circumstances. The people will have the chance to judge at the next election. 
-I think it is a great pity that this debate on this Bill was gagged on Thursday night by the Government with only 2 speakers from the Opposition able to speak. 
-I am a little concerned about clause 13 mainly because of the very great power and discretion which I think it gives to the Minister for Overseas Trade. The clause states that where a transaction may not be in accordance with sound commercial principles the Overseas Trading Corporation may nonetheless be directed by the Minister, where he is of the opinion that it is in the national interest, to engage in a certain type of trade. This clause could allow political considerations to be treated with a higher priority by the Corporation than perhaps basic commercial considerations. This is a fundamental flaw in the Overseas Trading Corporation Bill. I do not believe that it is viable or wise to surrender our national bread and butter trade flow to political and executive negotiation with some other country. This clause leaves totally undefined all important and controversial areas of operation which fall within the concept of national interest. It does not explain exactly what is meant by national interest. The clause concerns me for those reasons. 
-This clause provides for the membership of the Board of the Corporation. It is a procedural clause which gives no detail whatever about the exact composition of the Board. The amendment which the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Mr Crean)  has just moved and to which I am sure the Opposition has no objection does perhaps tend to lay down some sort of qualifications that members of the Board should have. However, the clause gives no precise description of the nature of the Board and because it does not provide a guarantee of representation from the private sector on the Board I think it is an unsatisfactory clause. It should spell out the numbers of people who are to be on the Board and whether private enterprise is to be represented. 
The Minister is correct. The amendment does cover matters I was raising, but it does not clearly spell out representation of the private sector. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 17 to 36- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 37. 
Subject to section 13, in the performance of its function and in the conduct of its business, the Corporation shall pursue a policy directed towards securing, in each financial year, revenues sufficient- 
to meet the expenditure, and provision for expenditure, of the Corporation properly chargeable to revenue of that year, including provision in respect of income tax payable by the Corporation in relation to that financial year, and 
to permit the payment to Australia of a reasonable return on the capital of the Corporation. 
-I was sorry that the honourable member for Swan  (Mr Bennett)  introduced a Party political note into the problems facing the Aboriginal, because I have felt that all members of this Parliament thought this was a non political problem and that there was much which was required to be done. I think the honourable member's speech was an unfortunate one to have been made in this chamber because the problems of the Aboriginal are not as I have said a Party political issue; they are a problem which faces all of us. As a member of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs, I know how closely and how well members of all sides of the Parliament have worked under the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross),  our  chairman,  to try to do something positive for Aborigines and not just make Party political points concerning the problem. I am as I have said very regretful that the honourable member for Swan has endeavoured to do this. 
As a member of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs I should like to congratulate the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Les Johnson)  on his recent appointment to that portfolio. During his period in Parliament, the Minister has been active in many areas of social reform including housing, health, social welfare and education. I am sure his experience will stand him in good stead for the difficult task which he has ahead of him. It will not be an easy task as we all know, as the Minister's predecessors have found before him. 
I believe that it is to the eternal shame of the Australian people that so Utile was done in the past 200 years to better the lot of the Australian Aborigine. Because of this neglect we have a lot of ground to make up, in a very short time. However, over the past 10 years, we have seen the problems facing the Aboriginal people receiving more and more attention. Under the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  and  Mr Howson,  as Ministers concerned with Aboriginal Affairs, and more latterly under the 3 Ministers for Aboriginal Affairs of this Government, significant steps have been made. Probably the boldest of these was the setting up of the National Aboriginal Consultative Council by the present Government I congratulate the Government on taking this step. As a member of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs, I have attended one of the meetings of the Council, and on Thursday of next week I will again attend a meeting of the Council's in Melbourne. Although the Council is still in its infancy and still faces many teething problems, I believe that it has a vital role to play in the interests of the Aboriginal people. It could achieve much or it could be a dismal failure. The success or the failure of the Council will depend as much on us as members of this Parliament as it will on the Council members themselves. 
One of the Council's greatest problems is the diversity in background and education of the members of the Council. The Council is comprised of the well educated and the articulate urban dwelling Aborigine or part Aborigine together with the outback or tribal Aborigine. One might be understood for fearing that the more articulate or better educated Aborigines might exercise a stronger influence on the Council than his or her tribal brother. However from my short experience of the Council, I do not believe that this problem, if it exists, will last for long. The Aboriginal people can be very stubborn when they believe they are right or have a just cause, and they are not prone to be stampeded into making hasty decisions. I believe that the Department and we as members should, without interfering unnecessarily, be doing more to help the members of the Council in the actual running of that Council. As I have said, Members of our Committee went along to one of the Council's meetings and we found that so many of the Aborigines were confused as to what they should be doing and how they should be running their meetings. I think that a lot of notice could be taken by the Department to show the Aboriginals just how the Council could run more efficiently in the interests of Aborigines. 
Under the constitution of the Council, it is laid down that the Standing Orders of the House of Representatives should apply. I believe that at this stage of development of the Council, the Standing Orders of the House of Representatives are far too sophisticated for the Council to have as its Standing Orders. I have served as a Deputy Chairman of Committees in this House for some 4 years and I would not lay claim to being an expert on the Standing Orders of this House. I think there are many other honourable members who are in a similar position. I believe- and we discussed this at the NACC meeting- that perhaps a set of rules such as the Joske Rules for Procedures used at meetings might be better suited to the Council. Joske's Rules would be more easily understood than the Standing Orders members of this House are trying to foist upon the National Aboriginal Consultative Council. 
I am afraid that I must answer the honourable member for Swan on a point that he mentioned. He said that the Aboriginal people had no voice in this chamber. The Aboriginal people do however have a voice in the Senate. It is the voice of our Liberal Party senator from Queensland, the only Aboriginal member of this Parliament.  Senator Bonner  has done a magnificent job. He has shown that Aborigines can play a very significant part in the running of this nation, not only as Aborigines, but as Australians.  Senator Bonner  has often said to me, 'I do not regard myself just as a spokesman of the Aboriginal people. I regard myself as a representative and senator of the people of Queensland '. I think that  Senator Bonner  has the correct approach. We should be one people. We should not be Aboriginal people because we have black skins and white Australians because we have white skins. We should be one people. We should all be Australians. 
In saying that I am not saying that there are not special problems and therefore many things which should be done for the Aborigine. But let us regard ourselves as one Australian. We do not want or need to adopt a system of benevolent apartheid. We have had a member of the South African Parliament here today who has talked about the situation in South Africa where the black people are put into one section of the country and told, 'You live there', and the white people are told, 'You live here'. I would not like to see this situation occur in Australia. I believe that we should be one Australian people irrespective of the colour of our skin or any other characteristics which we might possess. If the Aboriginal people have a skin which is different from that of the white people and if they are disadvantaged because they have lived in outback areas, it is our duty as the more affluent Australians, to see that those people are given the same opportunities to compete with and enjoy the same privileges as the people who are born in better circumstances. 
There are several other things that I should like to say in the time available. The first is that we hear a lot about drinking problems among Aborigines. I know this is a problem. It is a problem we have to face with the Aborigines and it is a problem that many white people face. All of us in our electorates have problems of drinking and driving white people. The problem is not confined solely to Aborigines. I do not know what the answer is. Are we justified in saying to the Aborigine: 'It is all right for the white man to drink. It is all right for the white man to be an alcoholic. But it is not right for you, because your skin is black, to be an alcoholic or for you to drink alcohol and liquor'. I know that it is not in the interest of Aborigines that they should drink alcoholic liquor. But it is not in the interests of the white man, either. There is much to be done for the Aboriginal population. The problems facing the tribal Aborigines are very different from those facing the fringe dwelling Aborigines. We have a big job before us. 
-Last week a matter concerning the defence services homes scheme was drawn to my attention by one of my constituents, and I should like to bring this matter before the House and before the Minister concerned. This constituent, an ex-serviceman, lodged a written application for financial assistance under the defence service homes scheme and was assured that he was eligible. We all know that in the past a certain processing period of about 6 to 8 weeks has occurred in these matters. No one has really complained about that. However, in this instance my constituent was told, and later this advice was confirmed by letter, that he must face an 1 1 -month delay before his application could be approved and settled. There is a great deal of difference between the usual 6 to 8 weeks processing delay and this proposed 11-month period. 
Something like that. Since a waiting period of11 months seemed to be both excessively long and also a peculiar figure to choose at random, I made inquiries of senior officers of the Australian Housing Corporation in Melbourne and Canberra. As a result of these inquiries I was told that all applications within the new 1975-76 year for loans on existing homes must, under direction, accept an 1 1 -month waiting period. It was explained to me that this was a policy directive issued by the Board of the Corporation as a result of a major shortfall in this year's Budget allocation. Honourable members will remember that the 
Australian Housing Corporation received some $ 122.5m this year for advances under the defence service homes scheme. With inflation currently running at 17.5 per cent in real terms, this is well below last year's allocation of $ 130m. It also fails to account for any increases in demand for assistance and of course increased building costs. In other words, this year's allocation for defence service homes is quite a dramatic curtailment in size as well as making no allowance for any future growth in demand. 
I am informed that it is because the Government has restricted its allocation in the area of defence service homes that the administration of the scheme has been obliged to impose an 1 1 -month wait, and in effect to postpone eleventwelfths or 95 per cent of all applications for assistance for purchase of existing homes. This means that the largest single part of the whole defence service homes scheme, which is the provision of financial assistance for the purchasing of existing homes, has been deferred for a considerable time. This is a major blow to exservicemen who are endeavouring to purchase their first home. Its impact will damage the hopes, costs and home planning of many Australians. The Government seems to care Utile for helping the average Australian to purchase or build his own home. The Government abolished the home savings grant scheme earlier this year. It has increased taxes on young couples saving for a home and it has increased the interest rates on home loans. I am glad that the shadow Minister for Housing is here this evening to hear my remarks. 
I notice that the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren),  whom I informed I would be making these statements, has come into the chamber. I appreciate the fact that he is here. This Government has effectively arrested the defence service homes scheme by curtailing its budgetary allocation. In doing so, it has crippled the plans and hopes of many Aus.tralian ex-servicemen. It is not easy to obtain detailed figures of aU those eligible and eager to benefit under the defence service homes scheme, but it is clear that there are many now and in the future who will be adversely affected in either having to buy their own home or being obliged to resort to commercial bridging finance over the 11 -month or 12-month waiting period at rates sometimes 10 per cent in excess of their normal interest payments under the scheme as eligible applicants 
Last year, 14 823 applications were lodged for assistance under the scheme. Of that number 8975 loans were actually settled and a further 2838 applications were approved but have not yet been settled or were not settled at the end of the last financial year. They consisted of the carry-over which the Corporation wm presumably settle this year. These figures show that the scheme is of no small benefit to the Australian ex-serviceman. The defence service homes scheme is widespread in its operations and significant in the assistance that it has provided. It is certainly noteworthy that under a retrospective order of this Government early in 1973 the basis of eligibility for defence service homes was significantly widened, retrospectively coming into operation from December 1972. 1 think all of us who are ex-servicemen were pleased that the Government did that. 
Now, within a mere 3 years of that much publicised move to expand the scheme, this Government has so restricted the funding of the scheme that the Corporation is obliged to postpone all new applications It is particularly noteworthy that the postponement of the scheme was done virtually without any publicity. One cannot help but feel that this Government is against the concept of home ownership and yet lacks the integrity to admit this in public and in a straightforward manner. Does the Government still hold to the concept that home owners are little capitalists as a former Labor Minister once said? The defence service homes scheme has traditionally been a part of the recognition for service within our armed forces. It has been one of the special advantages and incentives, at first for those who served in overseas combat areas, and more recently for aU ex-servicemen upon completion of 3 years active service. The scheme has been an integral part of our defence Services and indeed one could say an inseparable part of such Services. Servicemen have had removed from their reach for at least a year a major benefit to which they were entitled and had been promised. The Government, by causing this delay, has not only unilaterally and surreptitiously cut the rights of all past servicemen who have not yet used their entitlement for home assistance, but it has also breached the contract to which it was party with enlisted servicemen. 
It is evident that servicemen who fought under orders in the Vietnam conflict will be among those penalised. Many of the applicants who must now face extended postponement of their home ownership plans are some 20 000 national servicemen. Like aU other soldiers their presence in Vietnam, and thus their entitlement under the scheme as it then stood, was mandatory. Exservicemen should not be so penalised They honoured their contract to national service. It is reprehensible that this Government should now, without so much as a murmur, dishonour its part of that contract. I have asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development to be in the House while I make my remarks and I am pleased that he has come. I call upon him as the Minister who is responsible for defence service homes to take action immediately to rectify the situation which has occurred. 
I ask the Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs: Is it correct that officers of the Bureau of Meteorology in Melbourne recently received unsolicited copies of the  Australian Labor Party Platform, Constitution and Rules,  sent to them in departmental envelopes using the internal delivery system of that Bureau? Is it also correct, as has been said to me, that a similar distribution was made in the Department of Labor and Immigration when the honourable gentleman was Minister for that Department? Will the Minister institute inquiries to ascertain at whose direction these actions took place and give instructions to officers of his Department that such dissemination of Party political propaganda, using government facilities, does not recur? 
My question is also directed to the Minister for Housing and Construction. I ask: Is it the intention of the Government to implement additional taxation on home owners as recommended by its Priorities Review Staff? Is it true that such action would make home ownership more difficult for the average Australian? 
-Under the Australian Constitution education is one matter which was not- and never has been- handed over by the States to the Commonwealth. Yet here we are today in this Commonwealth Parliament with a Commonwealth Minister for Education debating in aU seriousness the education estimates. To the thinking person it seems a little incongruous to say the least. Starting with the Menzies Government we have seen succeeding Federal governments, both Liberal and Labor, taking unto themselves an ever increasing domination over the States in the field of education. This has been possible because the Federal Government holds the purse strings. It collects the major taxes and hands over to the States the funds with which, in conjunction with their own limited taxing powers, the States run the government of their States. 
The Australian Government, however, does not hand to the States in a lump sum the total cost of running the services of those States. It also employs another device, section 96 of the Constitution. This section has been used by succeeding Australian governments, quite dishonestly I believe, to circumvent the Constitution as it was originally intended. I am one who has always believed that if there is a constitution, be it in a club, a society or a nation, one should abide by the rules so laid down in that constitution. If one believes that the Constitution should be changed, that for instance education should be directed by the Commonwealth, there is machinery by way of a democratic referendum of the people to change the Constitution. If the people agree, then the matter comes under the control of the Australian Government. If they say no, then the power remains with the States. 
Of course, the real sufferers under the present system are the people, the electors. When something is not done which the people believe should be done in education or in any other sphere for that matter, what happens? The people go to their State government and are told: 'We would do it if only the Commonwealth would give us the finance'. They then go to the Commonwealth and are told: 'We give the States grants. They set their priorities. The responsibility is theirs'. So somewhere along the line the poor old elector falls down between 2 stools. Whom does he blame, the State or the Commonwealth? To whom does he show his anger through the ballot box, the State or the Commonwealth? He or she does not know where the responsibility lies, and this is bad for democracy. This is why the Liberal and National Country Parties' recently published policy on co-operative federalismwhereby the States are to be given responsibility for raising and spending their own finance- is so important and is, I believe why it has been so well received by the Press and the public. It has worked well in Canada and it will work well here. 
But let us confine this subject of government responsibility and accountability to education. The Government made much in the Budget Speech of there being a 14.1 per cent increase in expenditure on education in the coming year. But when one takes into account the potential 20 per cent inflation rate it is seen that this is a fall in real terms. In addition, the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  has stated that new initiatives will be limited in 1975-76. One cannot but feel that had this Labor Government controlled some of its past extravagances these cut-backs in education may not now have been necessary. The effects of the cut-backs are already being felt in the electorate. I have in my hand a cutting from the Melbourne  Age  of 13 September 1975. It states: 
Building is halted at 69 schools. 
Some plans may be axed because of Budget cuts. 
Building plans for 69 Victorian State schools have been shelved for at least six months. Some are in danger of being axed altogether. 
The Education Department said yesterday that it was deferring all contracts for capital works because of Federal Budget cuts. 
These schools miss out. 
The article goes on to list the schools.. Included among the schools to miss out are two in my electorate of Deakin, the Forest Hill Primary School and the Box Hill Technical School. The work to be done at Forest Hill Primary School was relatively minor in cost but nonetheless badly needed. The school has no sick room. At present sick children lie on a couch in the passageway outside the headmaster's office. Because of the limitation on new initiatives imposed by the Government a proposal to build a sick room scheduled has now been deferred indefinitely. There is only one internal toilet at the school and this is used by lady teachers. An internal toilet for male teachers was scheduled for construction. This project, too, has now been deferred. There is a tiny, inadequate staff room. This was to be extended but due to the cut-backs this project, too, has been deferred. At present there is no proper art craft room. Two classrooms have been joined together for this purpose. This area was to have been renovated and an outdoor area added. This project, too, has been deferred. This Government just has no sense of priorities. How much better would it have been if the $100,000 offered to Germaine Greer by this Government to make a sex film had been used to provide better facilities for children at a school such as Forest Hill Primary? How much more important is it to improve our education facilities than to squander $ 1 ,250,000 on  Blue Poles'! 
Box Hill Technical School is in an even worse situation. It has 3 1 portable classrooms scattered over a number of sites including the suburbs of Mont Albert, Box Hill and Mitcham in the electorate of Casey. It is forced to use 4 storeys of an office block in Box Hill, 3 disused factories in Mitcham and is presently opening another annexe close to my office in Rutland Road, Box Hill. Recently after a lot of agitation by parents and other concerned people, the State Government decided to purchase the old Gas and Fuel site in Elgar Road. Box Hill, so that the school could be situated on that site. The purchase of the site will, I understand, still go ahead but it is not now likely that the buildings will be completed, let alone occupied, for the next four or five years. And whom do the people blame? I can only quote to the Minister for Education his own words as reported in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of 20 August 1 975. He was reported to have told Cabinet that if so much as 'one cent' was cut from his proposed program it would be seen as a break in the Government's commitment to education. That reported statement is a correct summation of how the people feel. 
This Government has claimed great credit in the past for increases in education spending. It must also accept blame for cut-backs. I believe the Minister has fought hard in Cabinet against the reductions in education spending and I commend him for the stand he appears to have taken. But it must be doubly hard for him to accept these cut-backs when he sees how this Government has squandered moneys in many ways which he would not approve. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Innes)Order!  The honourable member for Robertson will - 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN -Order! The debate will be directed through the Chair. I ask the interjectors to cease. We will hear each speaker in silence. 
I shall just repeat that last sentence,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  because of the manner in which the honourable member for Prospect acted. It must be doubly hard for the Minister to accept these cut-backs when he sees how this Government has squandered moneys in ways which I am sure he would not approve. 
-Recently the Coleman Social Welfare Commission tabled its report in this House. Perhaps its most significant single recommendation was for the free installation of telephones for frail or severely handicapped people living alone in the community. The Commission recognised the need to improve the quality of life for the aged in the community by reducing their isolation and by supplying for them a constant source of contact with the outside world. Such contact is essential both in the ordinary sense and in order to overcome the effects of increasing immobility of the aged, and, in the medical sense, to meet sudden emergencies by enabling pensioners and aged people to make calls for help to the nearest doctor, hospital, relative or neighbour. 
It is not statistically possible to guage the size of the problems caused to the aged through isolation. We have all heard of the extreme cases of the deaths of pensioners which have not been reported for several days. It is possible that disasters could have been prevented or their effects been reduced had communication been possible and help been available. No statistics will ever be able to measure the degree of suffering that so many pensioners must endure through the constant loneliness of living alone. Isolation must surely be one of the most severe features of old age. 
The Commission's recommendation for the free installation of telephones for aged people is therefore terribly important. Of the total number of 1 184 000 people receiving pensioner benefits at present, only about 40 per cent possess telephones. More than half a million pensioners do not have a telephone. Last year 56 096 pensioners died. It is not possible to identify the number of those deceased pensioners who did not possess a telephone. Nor is it possible to establish how many of those pensioners who did not have a telephone would still be alive today had they had access to help from the outside world by being able to use that telephone. If 40 per cent of all pensioners do not have telephones, is it not possible that many of them die through isolation? The figure could be 1000; it could be more. Who knows or who will ever know? 
It may not be statistically possible to establish the cost in human life and suffering of old people who do not have access to a telephone. The provision of telephones for them should be of high priority to any government. None of the public authorities or private organisations which I have approached has been able to supply me with an accurate idea of the extent of the problem that isolation through lack of a telephone creates. However, they all assure me that they believe it to be considerable. The police, the pensioners association, the Brotherhood of St Laurence and even the Bureau of Statistics are of the opinion that deaths and accidents among the aged are in many cases inflicted and caused by an environment of isolation. It is the official recognition of that view by the Social Welfare Commission which has pleased many concerned members of our society. 
The recommendation to provide free telephone installation to many aged, immobile, disadvantaged and isolated members of the community, if adopted, would enable them to possess a telephone in their homes when at the present time they find it financially impossible. The Commission's recommendation is complemented by the recommendation of Professor Ronald Henderson who considered many of the same problems during the poverty inquiry. A copy of his report has also recently been tabled in this House. But recognition of the problem is only a start. It is indeed unfortunate for the aged of Australia to have a Government which has always claimed that it recognises the problems of the aged and the underprivileged but which now finds that it is unable to provide money, or give priority, to commence earnestly rectifying the problems which have been set out in both the Marie Coleman and the Henderson reports. 
It was with sincere regret that we heard the recent statement made in the Senate by the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Wheeldon)  in which he announced, in response to the recommendations in the Coleman report, that the Government could not afford any significant reforms or developments in social welfare within the foreseeable future. So much for the cost of Medibank. If we accept the need and the importance for the telephone to overcome the problem of isolation which affects the aged we must determine the viability of providing it. A telephone now costs $120 to install and a further $85 per annum to maintain. Under this Government's new Budget individual calls now cost 9c. Thus, it would cost the Government $205.09 to provide facilities for one- just one- emergency telephone call a year by a pensioner to his doctor or hospital. Yet upon the scale of other expenditure by this Government, is not $205 per annum a small amount to pay when a life could be directly at stake? Governments in the past have provided a pensioner telephone concession. This concession involves a 33 W per cent deduction only on the rental fee. This shows that past governments have recognised the need for pensioners to have access to telephones. It is a fact of life, however, that through the size of their income pensioners are not usually capable of affording even its installation. The Government provides for pensioners a deduction in telephone rental but it is a sadly inadequate deduction. 
I hope that what I have said has served to highlight the recommendation made in the Coleman report and that telephones for the aged should now be recognised as a necessity of life and no longer a luxury. The Government commissioned Marie Coleman to supply it with reliable information and viable recommendations. This has now been completed. It is now the Government's duty to accept those recommendations and to act upon them to reduce the suffering and to remove the isolation of life for our elderly citizens. Making the installation of a telephone free for pensioners would be a laudable first step. I strongly recommend to the Government that it give serious consideration to making the installation of telephones free to needy pensioners. 
-We have recently seen tabled in this Parliament the report of the National Population Inquiry, commonly known as the Borrie Report. This report warned that Australia was rapidly approaching zero population growth. In other words, if the immigration cutback by this Government were to continue Australia's population growth would stagnate at the present figure of around 13 million. At the best it has been estimated that Australia's population would reach 16 million by the turn of the century. The Government seems to be of the opinion that if we admit migrants to this country they will take jobs away from Australians. I believe nothing could be further from the truth. On the contrary, migrants, besides bringing many skills to this country, as they have done in the past, would create jobs. They would all need homes, they would all need furniture, schools for their children and numerous other facilities. 
It is just over 12 months since the former Minister for Labor and Immigration, the honourable Clyde Cameron, announced the Whitlam Labor Government's new restrictions on migrant entry into Australia. As a result of this Government's policies the immigration program has been reduced from a peak of 185 000 in 1970 to an anticipated figure this year of approximately 45 000. About 50 000 applicants who would have been admitted a year ago are now ineligible for entry. Having created, by its tariffs and other policies, the largest pool of unemployment in this country since the Great Depression, the Government somehow believes it can cure the problem, or at least alleviate it, by cutting down on immigration. 
I believe the impact of this policy to be detrimental to our long term needs. In attempting to remedy immediate problems the Government is abandoning long term planning. How can we, in all morality, say to a world which is bursting at the seams with a population explosion that we are going to limit the population of this vast land mass, with all its potential, to somewhere between 13 and 16 million people. Australia needs people in increasing numbers, with their numerous skills, to help us develop this wonderful country which by good fortune we inhabit. 
A recent study by the Flinders Institute of Labor Studies concluded that it is wrong to imply that migrant demand is of any importance in determining total Australian employment. The Institute concluded that while migration may affect some 'cannon-fodder' jobs of heavy industry in the degree of its labor turn-over, it was nevertheless erroneous to suggest that the entry of one migrant specifically results in the absorption of a particular job, and consequently the denial of a particular position, for an Australian citizen. A vigorous and directed immigration program could well help re-stimulate the economy. An expansion of immigration would immediately lead to increased consumer demand. This would stimulate the economy into higher production, which in turn would call upon greater utilisation and expansion of the work force. 
The Government has, I am afraid, fallen victim to its own negative outlook. It seems to envisage every new migrant as a potential social security liability. The object of our migration policy should be the long term development of Australia. You cannot turn migration on and off like a tap. By imposing the present restrictions on the inflow of migrants to this country the Government has failed to improve the employment situation. Not only has it failed to establish any connection between reducing immigration and improving the unemployment situation, but it has placed in jeopardy both our social structure and our long term national development. The Government maintains that Australia, at the present time, is incapable of sustaining an increase of more than 40 000 immigrants a year, despite the opinion of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation that the present capacity of Australia's food energy resources is sufficient to support 37 million people immediately- three times our present population. The former Minister for Immigration and now the Minister's Advisor on Migrant Affairs,  Mr Al  Grassby, has even gone on record as stating that Australia has the capacity to support 100 million people. 
When the late member for Melbourne, the Right Honourable Arthur Calwell, who was a good friend to many in this House, first designed and implemented our post-war immigration policy we had a population of some 7 million. Today our population is almost double that figure and Australia is immensely enriched by the skills which migrants have brought to this country. Much credit goes to the late right honourable member for Melbourne,  Mr Calwell,  for introducing that policy. It is sad to see the scheme now withering on the vine. 
I believe that the policy of the present Government towards immigration is wrong for a number of reasons. It fails to acknowledge that Australia's demographic problems stem not from over-population but from a serious underpopulation compared with its size and capacity. 
It fails to recognise that our resources are capable of supporting at least 3 times our present population, and the pressing need to further develop those resources. It fails to respond to Australia's impending zero population growth, as predicted by Borrie, which by the year 2000 is predicted to leave us nationally under-developed. It assumes that the only valid basis for migrant entry is either immediate family reunion, and that is strictly enforced, or a recognised demand for certain limited classes of skills. Finally, it assumes that migration must not only be tuned to the existing employment situation, but that it must also be geared to it. 
All of us, as members acting on behalf of constituents, have seen people who would have made good migrants and excellent Australians refused entry to this country- people who could have contributed greatly to Australia's future. I believe the Government's policy is not only short-sighted and damaging but that it fails to come to grips with the real problems facing Australia's long term development. The reintroduction of a vigorous immigration program could do much to revitalise Australia. I call upon the Government to rethink seriously its present immigration policy. 
-The House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation of which I am a member is conducting an inquiry at present into packaging. Whilst in no way desiring to preempt the findings of that inquiry I wish to draw the attention of the Committee of the Whole to the consumer problems of paper packaging. The paper packaging industry imposes significant costs on the consumer without providing any significant services in return. These costs exist visibly at the retail level and also during production and disposal. At present the consumer is obliged to bear these costs. The impact upon our society of the packaging industry can fairly readily be measured. Australia's main producer and supplier, Australian Paper Manufacturers Ltd, valued its turnover in paper packaging for 1974 at $800m. At the consumer level it has been estimated to cost the average family $700 each year. At the distribution level, just one of our supermarket chains- Safeways- disposes of 270 000 of the large brown paper bags used for carrying goods from the check-out to the car each week at an annual cost of $ 13m. This cost is also passed on to the consumer. 
The basic trend in the packaging industry is towards the introduction of disposable packages for all goods. This was one of the conclusions of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on the Environment and Conservation in its report last December on beverage containers. That statement is equally applicable to paper packaging. Where once a chemist dispensed medicine in the patient's own bottle, he now deals only in extensively packaged products, sometimes involving 8 different layers. This is said to be for our protection and convenience. One wonders, however, whether it improves the medical quality of any of these products. These extra costs provide an essentially useless and a largely undesired service, but they are not confined only to the retail level. They are equally evident at the production level. 
Last year the forestry industries of Australia analysed and projected developments to the year 2010. In what they called the Forwood report a massive expansion in forestry yield was predicted in the next 35 years. Also a significant restructuring of all forestry production was outlined. In simple terms, forestry products can be divided into roundwood which is fine quality timber processed for construction, and pulpwood, which is used mainly for the production of paper and packaging materials. The Forwood report predicts pulpwood yield in the next 35 years to increase by 7 times, from one-fifth of the industry to over half. This means that the industry intends to step up the production of pulp paper for packaging at the expense of high quality construction timbers. The forestry industry has calculated that it is more lucrative to supply the demands of paper packaging than to produce fine quality roundwood for construction timbers. This was stated in official Forestry and Timber Bureau leaflet No. 109 of 1967. 
By allowing profit to become the deciding factor, our forestry cycle is being radically modified. Pines are replacing gums. The alteration in our forestry cycle is such a massive operation that its consequences as a whole are not yet fully understood or controlled. For example, one area in Victoria- the Toronga Plateau in Gippslandstill stands barren from failure to regenerate pines successfully after a widespread clearfelling operation of the indigenous gums in order to supply industry's demands for packaging pulp for paper bags. The Toronga Plateau was similarly desecrated in the early 1950s. 
The same projects are also being undertaken but on a far larger scale in many parts of Australia, particularly the Eden area of New South Wales. At Eden whole forests and mountain ranges have been clear-felled. Extensive erosion has begun and the ecological system has been so radically altered that even fish in the adjoining Pacific Ocean have died, migrated or changed in species. The future existence of our forests is being jeopardised by excessive disturbance and ill-considered exploitation, and all this will have been brought about for the sake of a demand for paper bags. The forestry report estimated that per capita consumption of packaging paper is one-twentieth of a tonne a year. Amazing though that may seem, it further estimates that this consumption will double within 25 years. This expansion of the packaging industry is not only major in its impact on the comsumer and the environment, but also it would appear to be almost out of control. 
The disposal of this enormous quantity of packaging paper provides considerable problems and expense. Even with improved methods of recycling waste paper it is predicted as likely that by 2010 that 65 per cent of packaging still will be burned, dumped or left lying about. In the terms of 2.4 million tonnes of packaging to be produced annually at that time, the wastage problem will be massive. At present, $100m is spent through our rates on disposal of waste. Rates must treble in 30 years to cope with the new disposal problem. It is asserted by representatives of the packaging industry that they cater for the demands of the consumer. It can, however, be argued that in reality the consumer has not been provided with a real choice, and that these disposable products are very heavily promoted. In large supermarket chain stores, the consumer's choice is becoming increasingly limited to non-returnable items. This is the conclusion of the Standing Committee, to which I referred earlier and on which I was a member, in reference to the beverage packaging industry. 
This is the predicament facing the consumer. He is obliged to pay for ever-increasing amounts of packaging which inevitably surrounds the goods that he wants. This packaging is expensive, largely useless, and highly wasteful of resources. It jeopardises our forestry and our environment, and it presents massive disposal problems. It is my hope that the government in co-operation with the States will create initiatives in this area. It is time for the introduction of some form of control. Without restraint, the defects of today's packaging and forestry industries will be doubled within this generation. This initiative can be directed most positively towards investigating alternative materials for use where a genuine packaging need exists, such as roundwood, aluminium and even plastic with an emphasis upon returnability, not disposability. I place these facts before the Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  on behalf of the Australian consumer. The consumer is paying heavily for the present packaging of goods and so too is our environment. 
-I am sure everyone would agree that access to the process of the law and protection under the law is the right of every Australian and should not be regarded as a luxury. For that reason the Opposition would support and vote for the second reading of this BUI. We have, however, moved an amendment that the Bill be referred to a joint committee of both Houses of the Parliament because we believe that the Bill as presented may not be the best or most efficient means of providing legal aid to the Australian people. If the amendment is carried it would in no way hold up legal aid, as the legal aid scheme has already been operating for some time. However, if the Government uses its numbers in this House to defeat the amendment, as is likely, then the Opposition, as I have said, will vote for the second reading: 
The effect of this Bill will be to give the Australian Legal Aid Office, which is already operating, a statutory status to enable it to withstand any assaults which may be made on it on constitutional grounds. It also creates the Legal Aid Commission. If I have a criticism of this Bm it is because it sets up a third tier of legal aid in this country rather than integrating with those which already exist. Already in Australia we have a legal aid system operated by the profession itself. Then we have legal aid offices operated by the States and more recently we have had legal aid offices operated by the Australian Government. 
To have three such systems of legal aid would appear to be an undue duplication as well as costly and inefficient. Surely it would have been preferable for the federal Government to have sought agreement with the States and the legal profession to combine the existing systems and grant federal funds for their expansion and operation. 
The Australian Government could even have dictated the guidelines as it has in the case of other grants under section 96 of the Constitution. Had this been done I believe the underprivileged would have received more legal service from the legal aid allocation than at present and at no extra cost. As it is, the federal legal aid program proposed in this BUI will be limited constitution.ally to all matters arising under federal law and to people to whom the Federal Parliament has a special responsibility, such as Aborigines, students, migrants and pensioners. 
Sizeable sums are being expended in establishing a separate federal scheme which one would have thought could have been done more economically by expanding the present schemes. The existing State and professional structures for the administration of legal aid have long existed. But the Government has ignored the possibility of utilising and expanding them. Be that as it may, legal aid must now be seen as an integral part of Australia 's social welfare program. Legal aid should and must be freely available to our financially and socially deprived. 
The Australian legal system is based on common law which is sometimes described as being 'adversarial'. This means that all evidence in a trial must be actually presented by the party who wishes to admit such evidence. It is not left to the judge to adduce or search for that evidence. This puts a heavy responsibility on the parties in the trial to fend for themselves in planning their cases and presenting them in the best way. For our legal system to work properly, it is essential that both parties are able to do this. Because of the intricacies of the system, only practising lawyers are capable of doing this. So it is essential for the operation of our legal system that both parties are legally represented. They need lawyers. But lawyers do not come cheap. Many people just cannot afford their services. Thus unless they are given assistance our system of justice as a whole becomes suspect, and unbalanced. 
Those are the 2 principal reasons for the need of a comprehensive legal aid system. In a situation where the assistance which is provided by the legal profession itself and the particular State governments are inadequate, and law as a social tool continues to remain unavailable to a whole segment of society, it becomes the obligation of the Federal Government under its social welfare program to step in. However, I still believe it would have been preferable to operate through the existing State structures rather than to set up a third structure. 
There are many misgivings within the legal profession to this Bill as it stands. The profession is not altogether content at the proposed independence of the Legal Aid Commission which will be established under this Bill. The profession has also expressed apprehensions at the ultimate implications of the ALAO and its impact upon the nature of the legal profession in general. It is important that the Legal Aid Commission is independent. A study of its structure indicates that the  chairman  will be drawn from the profession. There shall be a representative of the Attorney-General, 2 private lawyers and a number of other people involved in legal aid and welfare work. Unfortunately a rivalry appears to exist between the Government and the profession. The independence of the Commission, directing the legal aid program, would serve to correct and mollify this rivalry, one would hope. 
The profession's second concern arises from its apprehension of the impact of the Australian Legal Aid Office upon its independence of government influence. There is a clear fear that the office shall adopt and ultimately abduct matters that traditionally belong to the profession. Certainly, the profession has in part made earnest efforts to provide its own aid scheme and relief to the poor. Individual lawyers sometimes accept briefs without a fee. But, it is unfortunately clear that the present efforts of the profession must of necessity be totally inadequate. The interim report  Poverty and the Legal Profession  prepared by  Dr Geoffrey  Fitzgerald for the Commonwealth Commission of Inquiry into Poverty, which was issued in July, shows that only 10 per cent of private lawyer's time is spent on low income people; and in fact, 20 per cent of solicitors as a whole admit to doing absolutely no work whatsoever for the poor. 
This denial of access to law is not just the fault of the profession itself. Many people cannot afford lawyers and do not approach them for that reason. Yet, many also just would not use them, instinctively. This is perhaps even harder to remedy than the economic inaccessibility of the law. The extent of this problem is reflected in a survey conducted by Professor Sackville, who has been mentioned by previous speakers, for the Poverty Commission in March. Taken from a lower income area of Sydney, the survey indicated a most unfavourable community attitude to lawyers. It noted that 65.6 per cent of those questioned agreed that 'lawyers are not champions of the poor', while over 70 per cent stated that in their opinion 'lawyers are mainly interested in making money'. 
If a society discourages or denies access to law, there is surely a danger of injustice arising. As the legal profession appears to have been unable to respond to this situation, the Australian Government has felt it necessary to step in. However, the work accepted by the ALAO will I believe essentially be work never taken by the profession in the first place. If that is so, it cannot validly be seen, as a move by the Government to invade or nationalise the profession. In the 1 975-76 Budget $ 16.7m was provided for legal aid, $ 13.7m of which was allocated to the ALAO and $3m for legal aid to Aborigines. At present I understand that 29 offices are operating, with arrangements being made to expand this to 62. Already it is evident that the ALAO is satisfying a significant social need. But 29 offices are very few, especially for a country the size of ours, but at least it is a start. And $ 1 3.7m is also quite meagre in view of the degree of inaccessibility that there is to law as a whole, and the great expense necessary to operate within the legal sphere. This is evidenced by the instruction to the Melbourne Legal Aid Office in July to halt its expansion program owing to an exhausted Budget allocation. Even in the first year of operation the funding of this scheme had proven inadequate. The AttorneyGeneral has stated that 'Ready and equal access to the law and the legal process is the birthright of every Australian'. I am sure that there would not be an honourable member in this House who would disagree with that statement. Nonetheless the reality is that the ALAO ran out of funds in July and that week after week constituents with legal problems whom I have referred to that Office have failed to gain assistance although they fall within the so-called 'means and needs' test. 
I am not unduly criticising the Government's legal aid program. But I stress that the need for adequate legal aid is pressing and great. Optimistic ambitions for the future do nothing actually to remedy the situation of the thousands of Australians who are being exploited and compromised daily through ignorance of their legal rights and a sheer lack of means to defend them in court. I urge the Government to expand its program. I would have liked to see it act through the State and professional schemes that already exist. I hope that it can not only expand its own program but also bolster the State and professional schemes that exist. We do not want to see any area of law left uncovered or any possibility of legal remedies being lost through lack of money or understanding of the available steps which people can take. Legal aid is an excellent thing. If there is any disagreement on the part of the Opposition, or on my part in particular, it is perhaps whether we should have another tier with a professional legal aid system, a State legal aid system and a federal legal aid system, or whether the whole three should be integrated into one legal aid system for the benefit of all the people who need the services of that system. 
-I second the amendment. In seconding the amendment moved by the honourable member for Benelong  (Mr Howard)  I would like to say that the prop.sed establishment of the Australian consumer Protection Authority is a matter of significance to all Australians because, as the Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs (  Mr Clyde  Cameron) pointed out very simply, but very much to the point, I thought, in his second reading speech, we are, after all, all consumers. Since the present Minister was appointed to this portfolio, consumer affairs has taken on a greater dimension and this is in no small way due to the Minister's ability and also to his mode of operation. 
The Minister has created what one could call a consumer crusade. We have witnessed the consumerneedsprotection ideal grow into the current proposal to split the Trade Practices Commission and transfer certain of its power to the Authority set up under this Bill. We have seen $lm- perhaps 10 times what initially had been predicted- allocated in this Budget to the proposed Authority. If, as the media has said, the Minister has been downgraded by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  he is certainly determined to upgrade his new Department. I think he has to be congratulated for that. Of course some honourable members might say: Has anyone heard of Parkinson's law? I think this is something about which we all ought to be careful. The Minister explained in his second reading speech that the new Authority would be used both to establish and enforce consumer product standards and in addition that the Authority would prohibit certain unfair provisions of consumer transactions. 
No one can deny that it is good to see initiatives for consumer protection being taken at the national level, at a level which influences importexport flow and the interstate passage of consumer goods. Not only could the proposed Authority provide minimum standards of quality to the products available to the Australian consumer but ultimately also, through its public inquiries, it could effectively rationalise the entire supplier-consumer relationship which, I think we would all agree, is a much needed step. However, it is a pity that in large part this Bill essentially will transfer the provisions of the Trade Practices Act 1974 to a new Authority. 
The Opposition supports the principle of consumer protection. There is no doubt that in many respects the consumer needs protection. There is no dispute between the Government and the Opposition on this. But it is over-simplistic to point to the need for consumer protection without being constructive as to how the details of that protection will work. It is no good complaining that the consumer needs assistance unless the type of assistance required is spelt out. It could be argued that products will not sell unless they meet the consumers' needs. However in today's productive society there exists a high powered advertising industry. It is no longer true to claim a product will not sell unless it meets the consumer's needs. With ever-increasing affluence and rising standards of living it has become the task of the advertising industry to show to the consumer exactly what his needs supposedly are. With the use of highly sophisticated psychology the consumer is now frequently the victim, perhaps not always, of deceit and manipulation, but certainly of over zealous advertising persuasion. It was pleasing to hear the Minister state that the Government's new consumer crusade would be persuasive- persuasive in restraint of the enthusiasm of the supplier and the advertising industry. 
However, this proposal to correct and rebalance the relationship between the supplier and the consumer is one which could adequately be undertaken by the Trade Practices Commission as it presently stands. To date the Government has supplied no valid reason in my" opinion for the special formation of this new Authority, unless perhaps it is the personal satisfaction of the present Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs. I believe we are justified in asking ourselves whether this Bill was really necessary when the Trade Practices Commission was apparently satisfactorily fulfilling the function of consumer protection. It is for this reason that the Opposition has moved its amendment so that the establishment of the new Authority can be given further consideration. We all know the Government has the numbers to defeat the amendment in this House and to pass the Bill, and this it will no doubt do. The position, of course, may be different in the Senate. 
In his speech the Minister detailed the provisions of the Bill. He concluded his speech with a final paragraph on the impact of the Authority on the consumer and on the visible ways in which the man in the street would notice an appreciable improvement in his civil protection as a consumer. The Minister probably spoke for all of us when he said: 
All of us have been dissatisfied from time to time with the quality of goods that we have bought; with the lack- of information about products; with the service we have received; or with the fine print in the contract that we have signed. This Bill provides the greatest step foward so far taken in protecting these rights . . . 
I could not help but feel that it seemed strange that the Minister should concentrate only one paragraph in that whole speech on the rights of the consumer in a speech of some 1 9 paragraphs devoted to institutionalising the protection of those rights. The Minister spent the other 18 paragraphs outlining the complex machinery of the Consumer Protection Authority. He assures us that the Authority will provide the greatest step forward so far taken in protecting the rights to which we as consumers and members of the Australian public are entitled. He assures us that the Authority will complement the States' existing activities and that it will co-ordinate the operations of the private organisations. Finally, he said that the Bill will centralise and specialise the powers to be transferred from the Trade Practices Commission. 
The House should note however that $lm has been allocated to establish a special authority to do a job which is already being done, not only at the private level, not only at the State level but also at the Federal level by this Government's very own Trade Practices Commission. As I have said, the Opposition does not dispute the need for consumer protection. We do not dispute the need for national action on this subject. But we do dispute the expenditure of $lm of taxpayers' money on what might well be a needless special authority. This Bill achieves very little which is new and there is absolutely nothing within its provisions which necessitates the establishment of a special authority or the removal of the consumer protection powers from the Trade Practices Commission. The consumer needs rational and increased protection, but it is arguable whether this legislation is a genuine effort to effect that protection. One cannot help but feel that it may well be a device designed by a formerly senior Minister to regain some of his own personal power and prestige by spearheading such an authority. 
If the purpose of this Bill is genuinely to expand and enforce consumer rights, then one cannot help but feel that the allocation of $ 1 m could have been better spent by being channelled through the Trade Practices Commission. This Bill proposes to establish a separate body to administer parts V and VI of the Trade Practices Act. Yet the Minister claims that there is no intention to duplicate activities or to build up a large bureaucracy. The Opposition proposes that the House temporarily delay the passage of this Bill and has moved an amendment accordingly. The $lm allocated to the proposed Australian Consumer Protection Authority in this year's Budget should, I believe, be directed to the Trade Practices Commission where it could be of most value to and do the most good for the consumer. 
I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 

Order! The correct name is the honourable member for Moreton. 
Let me hark back to the record of the honourable member. An article that appeared in the  Australian  of 22 July reads: 

 Mr Killen, who criticised the Senate for summoning a South Australian private citizen to the Bar today, said the Senate had no right to refuse Supply and force an election. 
He said there was no right to force an election by refusing Supply. But he then did a backflip when he was invited to join his great Leader on the Government front bench. 
The subject of the events leading up to 11 November has been canvassed and canvassed extremely well by those members of my Party who spoke earlier in this debate, but I feel that I have a duty- a duty to thousands of staunch Labor supporters in my electorate of Melbourne- to add my voice to the condemnation of the events that led to the election of last December. The newspaper proprietors may wail all they like about our pettiness and our irresponsibility in our attitude to the ceremony which was conducted in the opening of this Parliament, but theirs is not a voice that reasonable people will heed for a very long time. As the National Secretary of the Australian Labor Party has already remarked, the conduct of the media in the last campaign marked the darkest hour in the history of this nation's Press. In making this criticism I want to make it very clear that I do not intend to criticise the activities of the working Press. The vast majority of Australia's journalists did a magnificent job during the election campaign only to see time and time again their stories rewritten or not appearing at all because they were squashed by the barons of the Press who think that they can run this country. 
As one of my constituents suggested to me only the other day, now that a Press council is going to be set up, why bother going to all the expense of having elections. Once every 3 years or so the newspaper proprietors can have a vote to decide whom they would like to see as Prime Minister. Some erstwhile journalist by the name of Max Newton once said when interviewed on television over a matter in which journalists were very involved- a document they produced on a free Press- that when the election date is announced the individuals like  Sir Philip  Jones, Frank Packer and others who control the Press of this country will meet not to decide whom they will support but to decide how they will support the conservative elements and the blue-bloods of this country who think they have been born to rule. I can assure honourable members on the other side of the House and the shadowy figures that control them, the tiny minority who think they have a God given right to decide which party will form the government, that the Labor movement is united as it never has been before and we will not forget the shameful train of events in which one individual, an individual who was not even responsive to the views of the sovereign he allegedly represents, decreed that the elected government was to be replaced. We will remember that day- 1 1 November- as a day of shame. We will kindle our indignation. We will keep the fire burning for the next 3 years and we will once more assume our place on the Government benches to carry out the job that we were twice elected to do. 
Over the past few weeks my telephone has run hot. Ordinary electors have asked me to record before this Parliament their anger at the dismissal of the Whitlam Government and this I have done. 
Even before the Parliament had come together the Prime Minister had demonstrated his absolute indifference to the needs of the vast majority of ordinary Australians. The axe has already been felt, and those who have suffered are those least able to defend themselves- the pre-school children, the pensioners, the migrants, the poor and the disadvantaged. I draw the attention of honourable members to a report that appeared in the  Age  of 21 February 1976 headed: 'We'll have to give up, say migrant teachers '. After questions were raised in this Parliament there was a flurry of activity and the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  and the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  came up with some cock and bull story designed to draw the wool over the eyes of the people against whom the Government has taken steps to discriminate. 
The article in the  Age  records that more than half of the migrant women taking the first conversion course, primary school teachers with overseas teaching qualifications, will be forced to give up their studies because of the Government's cut in the National Employment and Training scheme allowance. Under the Labor Government the women doing the course were clearing $83.60 a week, most of which was spent on child care and housekeeping costs. As a result of the callousness of the new Government, married women whose husbands earn more than $70.50 will receive the princely sum of $23.40 a week. There will be great haste to change the philosophy around that decision too, but it is like a patch work quilt. All the great philosophy in the Hayden Budget that this Government does not want to adopt because it might be too embarrassing, will probably suffer a change of wording in order once again to pull the wool over the eyes of the Australian electors. Those people will rue the day that they put themselves into the situation in which they have found themselves in recent days. 
Under the last Government, for all its mistakes, for all the administrative difficulties it experienced, there was a feeling that we were opening new areas of personal fulfilment, that the Government was dedicated to giving every member of our society the opportunity to expand and to grow. Under the Labor Government Australian society was a much more challenging and exciting community in which to live. If we failed it was because sometimes our vision ran away with us. Possibly we tried to do too much too soon. But no one can deny the fact that we had a vision and a drive to improve the lot of every Australian. My area of special interest is ethnic affairs. I will give the honourable member for Mackellar something for his corner in the next 3 years, I can assure rum of that. 
Probably the most shameful episode of the period of conservative immigration policy occurred just before we assumed office in 1972. With the traditional sources of migrants drying up, due partly to improving conditions in Europe and partly to an increasing awareness of the realities of living in Australia, the conservative Government turned to Turkey to keep up the numbers. Apparently the Turks were considered sufficiently white to fulfil the criteria of its racist policy. Thousands of these people, many of whom had never lived in a major Turkish city before, were imported to this country with absolutely no consideration for their needs once they arrived. Many thought that they were coming here as contract labourers, following the German pattern, and expected to find company housing and return air fares on the completion of their contracts. Translation and welfare services for our other ethnic groups were woefully inadequate but for the Turks they were non-existent. At the present moment, just on one-quarter of the children in the Turkish community in Kensington, North Melbourne, have been sent home because their parents cannot find adequate child minding facilities geared to their needs. 
I am happy to say that after an initial period of confusion and suffering the Turkish community is starting to find its own feet. Initiatives were taken under the last Labor Government to try to provide some facilities for them. During that period the Kensington group, which represents a wide spread of Turkish migrants, formed their own social welfare group, hired their own premises and conducted a survey of their community. They approached me and the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  who was the Minister in Charge of the Children 's Commission. At the Minister's prompting a project was developed. I wonder where that will go with the proposed $9m cut in the Children's Commission. The honourable member for Swan  (Mr Martyr)  who is interjecting would do better to look after his Democratic Labor Party mates in Western Australia. Despite the fact that the Turkish group's submission to the Interim Children's Commission was given the highest priority, I wonder what is its future. 
The Governor-General's address is a most marvellous exercise in hypocrisy. It is a case of not letting the left hand know what the right hand is doing. On the one hand, it proclaims that the 'Government Will make available adequate numbers of bilingual staff in public hospitals and government departments' and, on the other hand, it announces: 
The growth of the Federal bureaucracy has been halted by the announcement of revised staff ceilings. Further revisions to these ceilings to reduce the size of the service were announced last week. 
Once again we see mad haste but no definite promises of what is to be done. What this means in practical terms is that there are not any jobs for the graduates of last year's courses in interpreting and translating. The Minister has talked about them but it was not until I asked him a question during the last fortnight that he got off his backside and did something about it. Are there any jobs available? Can the Minister announce them? What is the situation in actual terms? Will these interpreters be given opportunities to relieve the hardship of the people to whom I have referred? 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Before I call the honourable member for Leichhardt I would remind the House that this is the honourable member's maiden speech. 
-It is an honour and a privilege to follow the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns).  I can remember the days when he lectured me at Melbourne University on economic history, about the trade union movement and the industrial revolution. Although our views are politically apart I have a great respect for his sincerity. I have a great respect for what he has contributed to his party, even though again I do not agree with its views. I think it is a great pity to see the honourable member sitting on the back benches today when his party needs him so greatly. I think that most of us in this House would agree with that. I hope the day has not come when he thinks that he is a has-been as perhaps some people unkindly and unjustly would say. I hope that the honourable member will remember that he has a lot to contribute to his party, to this Parliament and to this country even though I may disagree with him on many of the aspects of what he would put forward. 
On the night of the last election on 13 December I think that the honourable member for Lalor made a very clear point when he bitterly pointed out that historically the Labor movement had not found much success in Australia. At the election of 1 3 December last we witnessed the people of Australia remove from office a discredited Whitlam Labor Government and saw installed the present Liberal-National Country Party Government with the greatest majority that any Australian Government has enjoyed since Federation. One could be forgiven for believing that following this defeat the Australian Labor Party would have become a little bit introspective, that it would have closely scrutinised itself and its policies and perhaps tried to discern where it went wrong. One would have thought that  speaker  after  speaker  on the Opposition side would have grasped the opportunity in the Address-in-Reply debate to look to the future, as perhaps the honourable member for Lalor did, and to put forward constructive policies for their party in the future. But on the whole they have not done so. Most speakers on the Opposition side instead of looking to the future have harked back to the past. However, it is necessary that their arguments do not go unanswered. 
It is obvious that as 1975 drew to a close a vast majority of the Australian people wanted to be rid of the Whitlam Labor Government before it did more and perhaps lasting and irreparable damage to the country's economy. This statement stands proven by the massive anti-Labor vote on 1 3 December. 
The Liberal and National Country Parties acted rightly in responding to the wish of the Australian people. This, after all, is what democracy is all about. Yet the former Prime Minister, now the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. 
Whitlam), tried to prevent the people from saying through the ballot-box whether they wanted a change of government. As I have said, in the event they showed that they did. The only means open to the then Opposition to allow the people to express an opinion was for the Senate to deny Supply, which is legally within its powers as laid down in the Australian Constitution. As honourable members well know, section 1 of the Constitution provides that the legislative power of the Commonwealth shall be vested in the Federal Parliament which shall consist of the Queen, a Senate and a House of Representatives, to be called the Parliament or the Parliament of the Commonwealth. The former Prime Minister is on record as having said on more than one occasion in this House that a government which is denied finance should go to the people. In fact, he and his Party endeavoured to force a former Liberal-Country Party government to an election on these very grounds not so very long ago. The only reason they failed was that they are not very good at counting numbers and on that occasion they did not get the numbers. However, they tried. 
In the weeks prior to 1 1 November the then Prime Minister realised that because of his Government's blunders it would face certain defeat at an election. He therefore decided to pull every card out of the pack to prevent the people from expressing their view through the ballot box. He refuted his earlier arguments in this House. There was, he loudly proclaimed, no need to call a general election. In fact, he said, he would refuse to do so. No doubt believing that if one repeats something often enough the people will believe it, he kept referring to the House of Representatives as the people's house as if the Senate was in some way an appointed chamber just as is the House of Lords in the United Kingdom. This, of course, as honourable members well know, is not the case. In Australia the Senate is a democratically elected House, elected by the same people who elect the House of Representatives. The Senate is elected on a basis of proportional representation whereas the House of Representatives is elected on an electorate basis. They are both elected, as I have said, by the same people. They are both people 's Houses. Under the Constitution they, together with the Queen, make up the Parliament of the Commonwealth. 
Faced with a deadlock between the 2 Houses of Parliament the Governor-General took the only course open to him. He acted, as indeed he was required to act under the Constitution, to resolve the deadlock. The Labor Prime Minister had stated he would not call an election. The Governor-General took the only course open to him. He appointed a caretaker government and a caretaker Prime Minister charged with the sole duty of calling an election and allowing the people of Australia quite rightly to decide the issue once and for all and for themselves. It should be placed on record that had he not acted when he did an election would not have been possible before Christmas and many public servants and others would have remained unpaid. Perhaps this is what the former Prime Minister wanted, expecting perhaps a political backlash against his opponents. He is on record as having called the action of the Governor-General undemocratic.  Sir, I  ask you: How can anyone claim that asking the people to place a ballotpaper in a ballot-box to say whom they wish to govern' their country can ever be called undemocratic? It is only when people are prevented from voting that democracy is endangered. The attempt of the former Prime Minister to prevent the Australian people from voting was an undemocratic action. 
Unable to accept the resounding verdict of the people on 13 December, Labor members have spent their time in this House, particularly in this debate, clutching at straws. Because the Lockheed Aircraft Corporation has been linked to some purported overseas scandal they have maintained that Lockheed must have had something to do with Labor's defeat. When some probable Labor sympathiser in the Australian Broadcasting Commission unearthed a report last week that the Central Intelligence Agency was involved in the dismissal of the Whitlam Government some Labor members clambered onto that band-wagon. Apparently they never bothered to inquire into the source of the report which was a little-known, and even less respected, I might add, New York weekly  Village Voice,  a paper which has been described as 'a scurrilous off-beat news sheet catering for leftwing trendies'. 
I thank the honourable member for that remark. Nor did Labor members bother to find out that the author of the article was an Australian journalist who is a cardcarrying communist. They clutched on this story to absolve themselves from any blame for defeat. On the strength of this report Labor members in this House have called for a royal commission, with all the expense that that would involve, into the CIA's so-called part in the fall of the Whitlam Government. Let there be no mistake: The Whitlam Government fell, not through any surreptitious plot, but because of its own bungling and incompetence. We all know that. Even the Labor members themselves must realise it. 
It fell because in only 3 years it had virtually brought Australia to its knees. I agree with the honourable member for North Sydney when he said that of course they realise that. Of course they do and they did at the time. 
As the honourable member for Lalor bitterly pointed out on the night of the election, historically the Labor movement has not found much success in Australia. Is it any wonder when Labor governs as the Whitlam Labor Government did during the past 3 years? There is a saying which we have heard many times that people in glass houses should not throw bricks. The Labor Party should be wary where it throws its bricks when it starts talking about Lockheed and CIA and telling the fanciful stories it has been coming up with in this House and elsewhere. Let us just look at today's newspapers. Let me quote from tonight's Sydney  Sun.  Under the headline 'Labor Leaders ask Gough what's going on?' it states: 
The ALP is demanding an explanation from  Mr Whitlam  about an alleged promise of $500,000 for its campaign funds from militant Arab sources. "*~ 

 Mr Whitlam is the only Party official who would know all the details of secret donations offers at election time. 

 Mr Whitlam refused to comment today on allegations that the left-wing Iraqi Government had promised the loan. 
The Melboune  Sun  today said: 
Whitlam Sensation. Row over Arab $500,000. 
It was referring to an offer to pay for the Labor Party's campaign expenses. One wonders what the Iraqis were getting out of this. It went on: 
It is believed the massive Arab campaign gift was to be 'laundered' before being passed on to the ALP through a Sydney businessman. 
Labor sources said last night the US$500,000 campaign gift was to be 'without strings . 
But they described the decision to accept it as 'a major error of judgment'. 
Who made that major of error judgment? I ask the Labor Party members sitting in this House tonight. The  Sun  continued: 
Disclosure that the ALP was thinking of accepting Arab money will also undermine  Mr Whitlam  's claim that the ALP 's Middle East policy is ' even-handed '. 

 Mr Hawke, a strong Israel supporter, is reported to have been furious when he heard of the proposed gift. 
In tonight's Melbourne  Herald  the front page headline is:  $500,000 Stir: ALP set for big row. 
The ensuing article states: 
The Federal Opposition Leader,  Mr Whitlam,  today faces the most serious questioning of his leadership of the Labor Party since its defeat in December. 
As well he should, I might add. 
The article continued: 
With allegations that there was a plan for the ALP to accept $US500,000 in a secret campaign gift from Arab sources,  Mr Whitlam  faced an angry but disbelieving Caucus meeting in Parliament House. 
He refused to discuss the allegations before Caucus met. 

 Mr Whitlam spent the morning alone in his Parliament House office, preparing his answer to the allegations. 
This evening 's Melbourne  Herald  editorial says: 
Oh, no- not again? 
No doubt it had in mind, of course, the Khemlani affair. The editorial reads: 
If the allegations that have emerged sensationally after the secret meeting of Federal ALP officers in Melbourne last Sunday week are correct, Labor will have suffered a relapse into the malady of which it manifested such distressing symptoms during the loans affair, a proclivity to make an incredibly stupid and wrong decision, and an inability to avoid being found out. 
In conclusion I would say this: It has been said that the people get the sort of government they deserve. I do not believe that they got the government they deserved in 1972. 1 think that in 1972 they were conned by a massive public relations campaign. I believe that on 13 December last they got a government which will set Australia back on the rails and that is essentially, I think, what all Australians want. When we come to the elections in 1978 I believe that the Australian people will re-elect the Fraser Liberal-Country Party Government to keep Australia that way. Australia's experiment with socialism has been proven a failure. 
I address my question to the Prime Minister. What was the event which initiated the commencement of inquiries into what have been described as breaches of the foreign exchange regulations of the Banking Act? 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I would remind the honourable member that he is speaking to the amendment; he has already spoken in the general debate. 
I ask the Treasurer this question: Is it correct that the Whitlam Government indicated to the giant Pirelli international company that permission would be given to enter the cable manufacturing industry in Australia? Is that decision by the previous Government quite contradictory of the guidelines on overseas ownership professed by that Government? Would the Pirelli proposal qualify under conditions relating to overseas ownership as stated in the present Government's policy? 
-Is the amendment seconded? 
-The question of foreign investment is one over which debate has raged for many years and one which has often been the subject of very emotionally charged arguments. I believe that the present Government has come closer than ever before to presenting a set of guidelines for overseas investment which are basically unemotional and which reflect the requirements and aspirations of the Australian people and the Australian economy. Still, I cannot in all honesty remain uncritically silent about them. 
The benefits of overseas capital are many and this seems to be now well recognised by all who bring serious consideration to the question. Clearly overseas investment has a vitally important role to play in the development of the Australian economy and perhaps more so now than ever before for in these times of inflation and high unemployment increased productivity and the development of new areas of production are very vital weapons in our fight against economic problems. Overseas capital brings with it new technology and managerial skills. It establishes new foreign markets. It generally enhances competitiveness and efficiency within our economy. Perhaps most important of all in a country like Australia it can provide large amounts of risk capital so essential to the future development of the Australian economy and so often lacking from within our own borders. 
We must all recognise that we can no longer remain economic nationalists. We are very much a part of the international economic scene and the living standards we enjoy in this country would most certainly not be possible without the benefits which foreign investment has brought in the past and will, I hope, continue to bring in the future. Unfortunately over the past 3 years of Labor rule these important benefits have not always been available to us as a nation. During this period there has been a drastic fall in the level of capital inflow into Australia. This was pointed out by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  in his statement of I April. It cannot be disputed that this fall was due very largely to the vacillating and the uncertainty created in the minds of foreign investors by the confused policy of the previous Labor administration. I commend the present Government for recognising the need for firm guidelines, thereby providing a frame of reference within which potential investors can make firm decisions. 
I wish to take the analysis of the previous Administration's policy one step further to point out that this confusion and uncertainty came about largely because the Labor Government gave too much weight to the supposed costs of a high level of foreign capital investment in Australia. It concerned itself primarily with the question of how much Australian ownership and control was appropriate rather than with the question of what Australia had to gain in the longer term. It is because I fear that this same mistake could be made again in some areas of the new guidelines that I have risen to speak tonight. The areas to which I am referring are the mining industry and the development of our vast national resources which are so important to the economic future of Australia and to its people. 
The requirement of a 50 per cent Australian equity in any foreign capital funded mining project- 75 per cent in the case of uranium- continues to reflect this preoccupation with and over-emphasis on the question of Australian control and ownership. They represent a preoccupation with giving too much weight to the cost to Australia argument and not enough weight to the benefits to be gained argument which, after all, is surely the essential one. They represent a continued hangover from the days when an overobsession with nationalism, a fervent desire for ever-increased independence at any cost and a vague distrust of multinationals and foreign capital were allowed to cloud our thinking, almost to the point of over-saturation. Surely it is time we were able to adopt a more realistic and mature approach and to relegate such considerations to their proper place. 
Mineral and energy resources are too vital a commodity in these times for the rest of the world to stand idly by waiting while Australia waffles and tries to decide what is in its best interests. It has been clearly demonstrated over the past decade that we cannot expect to enjoy that sort of luxury. After all, we are not the only nation with resources to exploit. Take the petroleum industry. When debate on foreign investment first began the world had not been confronted with an energy crisis. Australia seemed to hold an enormous promise, with vast resources of oil supposedly still untapped. Many of our resources remain in the ground still waiting to be tapped while the degree of our selfsufficiency in oil is dropping at the rate of 5 per cent per annum. This year we will import 35 per cent of our requirements simply because the previous Government's policy succeeded in frightening exploration away from our shores. 
I am afraid there is a grave danger that the new equity requirements could in some respects perpetuate this situation. Mining industry leaders unanimously claim that these requirements will do just that. They point out that never in the past, even in the days of the mineral boom, have Australian investors been able to come up with anything like 50 per cent of the kind of money needed to finance mineral exploration, let alone exporation and development. No one in his right mind would deny that Australian investors should be given the opportunity to invest in any new project, up to and above the level set by the government of the day, but their failure to do so should not preclude overseas capital from financing such ventures which are so vitally needed in the Australian national interest. 
No matter what the extent of our natural resources, it is no use priding ourselves on them if they are to stay in the ground. This is what we have been doing, I am sad to say, in the recent past. We have seen the rest of the world taken to the cleaners, to use a well known phrase, over the past decade by the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries. I agree with  Mr D.  J. McGarry  Chairman  of the Australian Petroleum Exploration Association, that the type of independence about which we should be thinking is independence from the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries. That is the kind of overseas domination about which we should be worried. I am convinced that the proper course that Australia should take is to welcome foreign investment, particularly for oil and mineral exploration which, we should not forget, is undertaken at great risk and in which, in the past, Australian investors have shown a marked unwillingness to participate on any large scale. 
Adequate controls on overseas investment and capital exist already in the hands of government. The Government has the power to decide which areas may be developed and the priorities. It has the power to decide what it will take in royalties and taxes. It can by legal means make provision to discontinue a project if it so wishes. There are more ways to kill a cat than by scalping it. There are many and more subtle ways to control overseas investment than to frighten it away by harsh and restrictive controls. Added employment of Australian citizens, particularly during the present unemployment crisis, the royalties and taxes extracted, together with the foreign exchange generated by exports, are all benefits to Australia and far exceed the profits enjoyed by foreign investors, no matter what is the amount of their equity. It is Australia which, and the Australian people who, in the long run come out as the winner. Surely we must do all in our power to encourage such investment when it is we, as Australians, who will reap the ultimate benefits. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Defence. Is it correct, as reported, that there are serious shortages of some equipment and spare parts in the defence forces at the present time and, if so, why? 
-I know that the honourable member for Prospect is a medical practititioner and that the honourable member for Macarthur is a businessman, but I think they are talking about different stimulations of the private sector. I now call another medical practitioner, the honourable member for Maribyrnong. 
I am glad that the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  is present, because I would like him to hear what I have to say. He has been so proud of the Medibank scheme. He was largely responsible for its introducion I would like to talk about the way in which Medibank has affected some of the little people in the community. There has been so much hogwash today from the Opposition about the great advantages of Medibank and about the way in which it will not be improved but ruined by the present Government. I had a constituent- he is no longer a constituent unfortunately- who was a pensioner. Some 7 years ago he had a stroke. Although he made a quite remarkable recovery, he was still partially paralysed. Other than staying at home and watching television, he could do very little. When Medibank was introduced by the Labor Government he was advised- he thought he was quite safe in doing so- to cancel his hospital insurance. He did so. About a month ago he took a bad turn. It was necessary for him to be taken to the Box Hill hospital which is in my electorate. He was told: 'We are sorry, we do not have any beds. They have been taken up by people in Medibank who perhaps normally would have gone to private hospitals or gone into intermediate or private wards. Now they want to get their money's worth out of Medibank. We are sorry. We can put you into Casualty for a couple of days, but at the end of that time you will have to go home'. He was sent home, despite the fact that his wife, who was suffering from cancer, was the only one at home to look after him. 
He went home. A visiting nurse came to wash him each day. He deteriorated gradually, until he died a week or so ago. I was at his funeral. I could not help but feel that if it had not been for Medibank and the fact that he had been talked into cancelling his hospital insurance in the belief that he was completely covered by Medibank that he could have got decent treatment in an intermediate ward or a private ward at a private hospital. He might well have been alive today. I feel that this story should be told to the House because Medibank and health insurance deal with people. The important thing is the effect that Medibank has on individuals. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister and is supplementary to one which has been asked almost continually in this House by the Leader of the Opposition. Does the Prime Minister recall, stating in his policy speech prior to the last general election, that the Government would not give assistance to overseas countries involved in terrorist activities? Is he aware that Mozambique is giving haven and assistance to Russian trained forces who are attacking and killing both black and white Rhodesians? In view of the limitations which Australia has found it necessary to place on the amount of aid which we can give to under developed and needly nations, will the Prime Minister give an assurance that his Government will give very serious consideration to the matter before succumbing to the continued pressure of the Leader of the Opposition for aid to Mozambique when there are very many more deserving and peace loving countries? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Now that the  righting has died down in East Timor has the Government remained concerned about the human suffering and disruption to the lives of the people in that country? If so, what has the Government done or what does it intend to do to help alleviate that suffering? 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-When the Fraser Government was elected on 13 December last it was given a clear mandate by the Australian people to put the economy of this country on its feet. This Budget aims to do just that. It represents a further stage in the continuing economic strategy which the Fraser Government has pursued and developed since coming to office. The Whitlam Labor Government gained power in December 1972. At that time unemployment was running at approximately 1.5 per cent of the work force. In actual terms it was about 136 000 people. When the Labor Government was thrown out of office by the Australian people last December the number of unemployed had risen to 328 000, which is close to 5 per cent of the work force. The rate of inflation was 4.5 per cent in December 1972. In December 1975 it was close to 17 per cent. So let there be no doubt about which government presided over the economic catastrophe which has befallen Australia during the past 3 years or so. Let there be no doubt about the basic cause of our high unemployment and high inflation rates. Like Micawber, the Whitlam Government overspent. As a result, Australia found itself with its worst recession since the 1930s. 
The Fraser Government has been handed the task of putting the economy back into shape. Decisions that will need to be made may not be palatable or popular, but the Government will not turn back from such decisions on those grounds. As one section of the media has said, the long, slow haul has begun: Australia is pointed towards a slow but steady recovery. A significant factor in this recovery has been the existence, both during the election campaign and since, of a definite Government economic strategy- a carefully considered and rigidly adhered to plan to combat the problems besetting the economy. For the first time in 3 years the Australian people have been able to see that they have a government in Canberra that is accepting responsibility and that possesses the competence and the expertise to restore the nation to prosperity. That belief has been reinforced by this Budget. 
It is gratifying to note that in the June quarter the rate of inflation dropped to 12.3 per cent from the peak of 17 per cent in 1974-75. However, unemployment figures continue at an unacceptably high level and the reduction of unemployment will take time. I share the concern of the Government and of the Australian people that we continue to have a large number of people unemployed. I do not go along with the belief that a significant number of the unemployed are dole bludgers, as they have been called in the Press. The great majority do want to work. For example, the formation by some people of a group called Youth Organisation for the Unemployed- YOU, as it is called- and the action of groups such as the Young Christian Workers prove that the young people do not want to be dole bludgers and that they do want to work. These young people suffer a severe financial loss as well as a severe loss of human dignity by receiving unemployment benefit. Regrettable as the high levels of unemployment are, however, it is important to understand that they are a result and not a cause of our current economic situation. 
Full employment can be obtained only when we achieve economic recovery. We cannot expect a significant drop in unemployment until that time. The Government has stressed repeatedly that its entire plan for economic recovery revolves around the curbing of inflation as its first priority. The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  enumerated some of the effects of inflation in his statement to the House on 20 May, when delivering the Government's economic package, and again in his Budget Speech on 17 August. He pointed out that if inflation continues at the crippling levels that we have experienced in recent years businesses will be forced to place emphasis on survival rather than development. Accordingly, they will cut inventory and employment to the bone and will find themselves unable to create any new opportunities for employment until there is a significant reduction in the rate of inflation. In addition consumers, fearing for the future, will save rather than spend and an increasing proportion of the local demand will be met from overseas as Australia's international competitiveness progressively declines because we are pricing ourselves out of the market through continuing wage increases. 
An inflationary spiral such as we have experienced in recent years eats away at the living standards of all Australians. It hits hardest at those in the community who can afford it least. I refer to those on fixed incomes, the poor, the disadvantaged, pensioners, the sick and others in similar circumstances. The Government has stressed again and again that only when inflation is brought back to acceptable levels will we achieve recovery. This approach has been endorsed on numerous occasions, recently and most significantly by the conference of Ministers of the 24 member nations of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development of which Australia is a member. 
I wish to quote 2 statements originating from that conference. The first is a statement made by the United States Secretary of the Treasury,  Mr Simon,  who said: 
The policy errors of the past and our hopes for the future force us to recognise a basic reality: Inflation is the greatest threat to sustained economic development and the ultimate survival of our basic institutions. 
The second quotation is an extract from the communique agreed to and issued to all the Ministers attending the conference. It is: 
The basic premise on which this strategy rests is that the steady growth needed to restore full employment and satisfy rising economic and social aspirations Will not prove sustainable unless all member countries make further progress towards eradicating inflation. 
I emphasise the ambitious objective of eradicating inflation rather than merely reducing it. Within our own community, there has been widespread endorsement of the Government's approach to our economic problems. It is well recognised that, whilst measures such as the introduction of the investment allowance and now company tax indexation have great merit, they fade into insignificance when compared with the advantages which would accrue from a major reduction in inflation. Again and again in statements by business leaders, economists and others in the community, a common denominator is evident; it is almost universally agreed that attacking the high rate of inflation should be the Government's first priority. 
The Government acknowledges, however, as the Treasurer pointed out on 20 May and again on 1 7 August, that there is a need to move slowly to achieve a moderate balanced recovery. Again, this view has been widely endorsed. The communique of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development records that Ministers accepted as an important corollary of thenstrategy that 'restoration of full employment will be progressive and take a number of years'. Despite the understandable desires of many to achieve a return to economic prosperity and full employment in a short period, it is clear that the situation in which we find ourselves is not one which lends itself to a quick fix. We must ensure that the recovery is a sustained and lasting one that does not merely establish a base for a further and more severe bout of inflation. This could well occur if, for example, demand increases too quickly while insufficient investment continues, thus creating a bottleneck. 
A principal method employed by the Government in its attack on inflation has been its efforts to cut public expenditure, to reduce the former projected Budget deficit of approximately $5,000m. Naturally there have been critics of this tactic. It is a method which must result in unpopularity as it removes or reduces funds in many areas, from many projects which unquestionably are deserving of government financial assistance. But a government cannot continue for long to spend money it does not have. This Government simply cannot afford all it would like to afford at present. It is very true that cuts in Government spending will add, in the short term, to the numbers of unemployed, and this will naturally create unpopularity. However, the Government has demonstrated it is willing to accept any ensuing unpopularity in the belief its approach is essential to achieve a return to economic stability. Moneys which the Government sector spends are generated from the private sector. If governments intrude too far into that private sector, then these moneys begin to dry up, inflation occurs and development stagnates. That is largely what has happened in this country. The Government has decided, in my view quite correctly, that any short term unpopularity resulting from expenditure cuts is far outweighed by the future benefits which will accrue if it stands aside and encourages the private sector to expand. This approach has been widely endorsed by the Australian business community.  Sir Ian  Potter, writing in the  Age  of 26 July last, said: 
Apart from improving the availability of resources to the private sector, the reduction in public expenditure and the subsequent deficit has a major bearing on financial stability, which in turn is of great importance to the private sector if it is to occupy the room in the overall economy vacated by Government spending. 
The Government having committed itself to this course then, let us look at just how successful it has been in its first 8 months in office. Many initiatives and other methods have been employed by the Government in its fight against inflation. Unquestionably, one of the most important has been the continuing call for the Australian community to exercise wage restraint. The Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission has recently handed down a wage decision which goes some of the way towards establishing this moderation. It does not, I believe, go far enough. However, I do not believe that it is tenable for the Government merely to blame the left wing and militant unions for the failure to achieve the degree of moderation required. I believe the Government, and all of us who are supporters of it, must accept a share of the responsibility, for it is clear that we have failed to communicate to the Australian public the seriousness of the situation which faces us and the essential requirement for recovery that all of us- businessmen, workers and parliamentarians alike- must work together, must make sacrifices now in the short term, if we are to achieve a return to prosperity in the longer term. 
That brings me to my final point. I urge the Government to take steps immediately to mount an extensive advertising and communication campaign, at whatever cost, explaining the seriousness of the economic situation, explaining the Government's economic strategy as I have briefly outlined it here and explaining why it is absolutely vital that we all work together in this crisis. I believe there are signs that the Government is doing just that. When in government, the Australian Labor Party proposed such an advertising campaign. It was opposed by the then Liberal-Country Party Opposition as a propaganda exercise. In my view, it was quite wrong that it was opposed. No doubt my suggestion now that the plan be revived will meet with similar opposition from the ALP. I sincerely hope that this will not be the case. I do not believe that this exercise in communication should include political recriminations. I propose that it should be designed merely to communicate to the Australian people the fact that this Government has a coherent economic strategy which can and will work, but only if it has the active support of all members of the community. 
I take the area of wage restraint as an example of the need for communication. Part of the Labor campaign was to be the slogan 'one man's wage rise is another man's job'. How much more applicable is that statement today? During the first three-quarters of 1974 the share of the gross national product going to wages rose from 6 1 per cent to 68 per cent. At the same time the share going to profits dropped from a long term average of 15 per cent to around 10 per cent. Also at the same time hundreds of Australian companies went into liquidation and the number of unemployed leapt to over 300 000. The connection is undeniably clear. The Australian work force must be shown that 'profits' is not a dirty word but that profits are the life blood of the businesses which provide their jobs, their pay packets and their standard of living. 
Wage restraint is by no means the only area where communication is needed. All aspects of the Government's economic strategy, of the motives behind the initiatives it takes, should be made clear. Such publicity campaigns have been used to great effect over recent years in West German, Britain and the United States of America which are all facing similar problems to Australia. In each case co-operation has been achieved from the community in moderating wage demands and price increases. In each case, as a direct result, the inflation rate has been lowered significantly. As to the method which such a campaign would employ, I leave that to the experts but I do offer one suggestion and that is that greater use could be made of backbenchers on both sides of the House to get the message across at a local level. 
In conclusion I say that we now have a Budget which reflects a sound and coherent economic strategy, a long range plan to return this country to economic prosperity. We, as a Parliament, must get the message across to the Australian people to get behind the Government and ensure that this plan works for the benefit of the whole community. 
-Has the Minister for Transport seen a report claiming that the Prime Minister of Bahrain has stated that his Government would examine the possibility of a joint shipping company involving Bahrain, Australia and New Zealand? Was the question of a joint shipping company raised during the Minister's talks with the Prime Minister of Bahrain yesterday? If so, what is the Government's view on this matter? 
-Speaking in the debate on the estimates for Aboriginal Affairs last year I made the point that the whole question of the welfare of Aboriginal people should not be allowed to become a party political issue. I think most honourable members would agree with that proposition. I still hold to that view. I believe that all members of this Parliament and the Austraiian community in general should concentrate their efforts on the very considerable problems confronting the Aboriginal people rather than using the issue for some political advantage. 
On this basis then it is extremely important to examine carefully the extimates of expenditure on Aboriginal affairs in this year's Budget and in the light of the statement pf the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  to the House today. Many honourable members on the Opposition benches and certain sections of the Press were only too ready to accuse the Government of savage cuts in funds to Aborigines when the Budget was announced. There was a marked unwillingness to acknowledge that only in certain areas were moneys withheld and that those funds were only temporarily withheld pending inquiries into the methods of spending. A firm commitment was made by the Treasurer in his Budget Speech to increase the allocation to those areas once the outcome of those inquiries was known. That announcement has been made by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs today and an extra $25m will be allocated for Aboriginal housing and other projects. That announcement is to be applauded. 
It is, I believe, to the eternal shame of the Australian people that so little has been done for our Aboriginal population over the past 200 years. This long neglect has meant that there is now a need to move much more rapidly than perhaps is good. We have seen in the past 10 years considerable advances made under governments of both political persuasions. Year by year substantial progress has been made in the amount of money allocated to Aboriginal affairs. Much has been achieved for the welfare and training of the Aboriginal population. There has, however, particularly under the previous Government, been a tendency to rush blindly into many areas and as a result large amounts of money have been poured into ill-considered schemes, as we have sought to impose our standards, our life style and our conditions on the Aboriginal people. 
-Inevitably, many of these well-intentioned attempts have been unsuccessful and have only resulted in a waste of money which could have been better spent in other areas or on other projects. I think I heard the honourable member for Wills say 'What projects?' The turtle farm was one of them. Illconsidered attempts to impose our standards on the Aboriginal people and failure to consider their unique characteristics, unique life style and culture will drive us further and further from successful integration. It is integration we must strive for, not assimilation and not some form of apartheid or separate development. The Government's professed policy is to achieve selfsufficiency and self-reliance for the Aboriginal people. Embodied in that goal is the belief that they should be able to enjoy the same opportunities and the same privileges as all other Aus.tralians. But that does not mean that they should have the white Australian life style imposed upon them or be forced to accept that life style as a prerequisite to the enjoyment of those opportunities and privileges. 
I believe that it was with those considerations in mind that the Government came to look at the 1976-77 Budget allocation for Aboriginal affairs. The resultant allocation reflected the Government's determination to do all it could to continue to improve the lot of the Aboriginal people, at the same time reflecting its equal determination to ensure that the money is spent wisely and in a way which will achieve the most effective result for the Aboriginal people. Funds in the crucial areas of employment and welfare have not been cut. In fact, there has been an increase of nearly Sim over last year's figure of $5. 834m in the allocations for employment, grants in aid and employment training. In the welfare field, funds available to the Aboriginal Legal Service have been maintained at $7. 746m, and more money has been given to such organisations as Aboriginal medical services. The major areas in which funds have been withheld are those of housing and Aboriginal enterprises, which were the subject of the interdepartmental and Hay inquiries, which have been reported on to the Parliament today by the Minister. 
Looking briefly at the area of housing, it is obvious that there are characteristics in the make-up and culture of the Aboriginal people which necessitate very different housing facilities from those which our European style of living provides. Recently we have seen the successful completion of the first house in the Bakandji Housing Company project at Wilcannia in New South Wales. These homes are being constructed by Aborigines with regard for the special needs of the Aboriginal people who will occupy them. There is every indication that the project will be highly successful and, as the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs said on the occasion of the opening ceremony, the Wilcannia story is one for the history books. It is the type of project which must get our financial support. It is no use spending money, as we have done in the past, to build homes in which the Aboriginal people cannot and do not wish to live. To do so is not only wasteful but demonstrates to the Aboriginal people a complete ignorance of their needs and their cultural background. In the housing area, as in the areas in which money was temporarily withheld, undoubtedly there was a need to examine the ways in which funds were being utilised. I commend the Government for recognising and acting upon that need. It is not an easy thing to withhold moneys in such a sensitive area. It would have been much easier simply to sustain or increase the allocation, but by so doing the Government would have been abdicating its responsibility to ensure that the money is spent in the best interests of the Aboriginal people. The Government has demonstrated that it is not prepared to abdicate that responsibility, and for that it is to be commended. 
I turn finally to the area of education. I was disappointed to see that in this area we had suffered a fall in expenditure. In the Budget the Government's estimated expenditure for 1976-77 is $35.3m, a decrease of $6.1m on 1975-76 figures. In the Department of Education report for 1 975 1 notice that there has been a continuation of the disturbing downward trend of enrolments and attendance at Aboriginal schools in the Northern Territory. No doubt that has made the prediction of education needs and staffing in Aboriginal schools very difficult. The needs of the Aboriginal people are immediate needs. Already we have neglected them for far too long and, while we must continue to consider carefully the best possible means of achieving a solution, we must do so with more haste than perhaps we would like. We cannot expect the Aboriginal people to sit around and wait for much longer. 
-My only comment in relation to the speech by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  is that had it not been for the economic policies of his Government we would not be in the position of having to cut back on migration as has happened. At the outset I refer to the statement on population policy made by the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  in the House on 30 March. I had hoped to speak in that debate in order to call for an increase in immigration, but the debate was terminated rather abruptly and this was not possible. Since then the Government has approved an increase of 20 000 persons in migration intake for 1976-77. The number will increase from 50 000 to 70 000. I am reliably informed that while 70 000 people will arrive, 40 000 people will leave this country which will mean a net gain of 30 000 people. Of this number something like 10 000 will enter the work force. 
I believe that this migrant intake is far from adequate. Despite the current unemployment problem this country can and must support a greater population. When  Mr Arthur  Calwell commenced the post-war immigration scheme Australia's population was approximately 7 million. Immigration reached a peak in 1970 when 185 325 permanent residents came to Australia. By 1972 our population had reached 13 million. Yet during 3 years of Labor rule and mismanagement Australia's population increased by only a further 1000 people. 
The intake of various ethnic groups over the past 30 years has probably been one of the greatest things that could have happened to this country. Australia has been enriched by their presence. They have contributed considerably to the increase in Australia's gross national product, and have provided a market for Australian produced goods, with all the economies of scale which have been involved. Since 1945, 3.3 million migrants have come to Australia, and at the present time one person in every five in Australia is an immigrant. Over half the increase of 6.2 million in Australia's population since World War II has been due directly to immigration. 
I am most concerned, however that during the 3 years of the Whitlam Labor Government, we witnessed the rundown of Australia's once great migration program, as we witnessed the rundown of many other things in Australia. Under Labor mismanagement the economy came under increasing difficulties and unemployment reached its highest peak since the days of the Great Depression. The Labor Government falsely believed that in order to keep unemployment figures from rising even higher migration should be cut back. This view has again achieved some prominence in recent times, and I believe it represents a grave misunderstanding of the effects of a high immigration intake. The present Minister has quite correctly pointed out: 
It is simplistic and quite misleading to regard the economy as containing a fixed number of jobs, so that every migrant who enters Australia to take employment reduces the stock of available employment for Australians. This totally ignores the dynamics of the labour market. 
He went on: 
Migrants, especially during the early period of settlement, add significantly to demand for goods and services and thus help to create employment. They may well have a greater impact on stimulating demand for labour than on increasing its supply. 
I agree totally with those remarks. However, I cannot but question how the Minister can reconcile that view with the present restrictive immigration guidelines and an immigration target for the forthcoming year of only 70 000. Canadian experience has shown that immigration has had little or no effect on unemployment in that country. High levels of immigration to Canada during the past 3 years have not significantly affected the level of unemployment. I am convinced that if Australia were to adopt an approach similar to that of Canada the effects would not be different from those experienced in that country. 
As a result of Labor's immigration policies, migration to Australia has declined so drastically that the rate of increase in our population has come to a virtual standstill. Against a peak of 185 000 in 1970, only 50 000 migrants came to Australia during the last year of Labor rule. When departures from Australia are taken into account, we find that Australia had a net migration loss of over 8000 people in the calendar year 1975. In no other year since 1947 have the recorded arrivals over departures been less than 28 000. Three years of Labor Government had achieved stagnation in our population growth- a stagnation which no country at Australia's stage of development can afford. Australia's population is now barely increasing. We have just about reached zero population growth, and if our population stabilises at this figure, we could well be faced with an ageing, permanently declining population. Any government which believes we can sit here in this vast country, with all its undeveloped resources and potential wealth, in an over-populated, poverty-stricken world, and just say 'sorry, you cannot come here because you do not fall within our guidelines ' is just not facing reality. How long does anyone seriously believe we can get away with such an unrealistic stance? Both morally and for practical reasons Australia must take more people into this country. 
Neither can we afford to postpone taking action. To quote the Minister's own words once again: 
Australia has the natural resources as well as the technological capacity, and the political, economic and social structures, to enable population increases during the rest of this century of at least the levels of the postwar period. 
And yet we have limited our intake this year to 70 000 people. Perhaps the net result will be far below that figure. The Minister further pointed out that the rate of growth of our traditional source countries for immigration is decreasing, and that, if current trends continue, it will do so to a much greater degree from early in the next century. He has said that the potential for further migration from most of these countries exists during the next 2 decades. Was he implying that it will exist only for the next two decades? 
Not a day passes without people coming to my office, wishing to sponsor close friends and relations for immigration to this country. Most would make excellent and exemplary citizens. In the vast majority of cases these applications are still being refused. Invariably the same type of letter comes back. Time does not permit me to go into the cases which I had intended to bring up tonight, but I am sure that most Australians would feel rather ashamed at our present limited policy which has resulted in people being turned back. 
I must pay a tribute to the present Minister who, of all the Ministers for Immigration with whom I have dealt in the last 1 0 years, has given the most compassionate and sympathetic ear to family reunions and applications by people to come to this country. I am sure that he has been limited in the approvals which he may give. 
I call on the Government to take a further look at where we are going in regard to population growth. The Minister has admitted in his statement to this House that we can expect little population growth from natural increase and that we must look to migrants for the long-term increase in our population. Let us get rid of these present restrictive guidelines and adopt a realistic policy to Australia's future population growth. Australia cannot hope, in the long term, to occupy this vast wealthy country with a meagre 13 million people and say to the rest of the overpopulated world: 'Keep out'. If we do we will do so at our peril. The day may well come when the United Nations, dominated by Third World powers and the communist bloc, may endeavour to dictate to us what our immigration policies will be. 
It is clear that the Government placed education in a high priority in the recent Budget, and this is as it should be. The Commonwealth Government's expenditure on education in 1976-77 is estimated at $2,204m, an increase of 15.3 per cent compared with 1975-76. In addition, the decision to replace the previous fixed triennial funding system for major education programssuspended by the Labor Government in 1975- with a system of 3-year rolling programs from the beginning of 1977 is an excellent one. It means that there will be a review at the end of each year, and this will provide the Government with greater flexibility in budgetary formulation whilst retaining a reasonable framework for the education commissions and institutions. It enables education programs to respond more quickly to changing community needs and authorities to plan guidelines a year or two ahead. 
The decision of the Commonwealth Government to set up a federal inquiry into education and training, announced recently by the Government, is also to be commended, especially as it covers both secondary and tertiary fields. Such an inquiry should be as broadly based as possible and should reflect the expectations and the needs of the whole community. In view of the growing problem of unemployed school leavers and some graduate unemployment, it is imperative that such an inquiry probe into all aspects of education and the relationship of training programs to employment and manpower needs. It should look at whether the education system of today is relevant to the employment needs of the many young people who are now finding themselves jobless. 
Approximately 60 000 of last year's school leavers have been unable to find jobs, and in August of this year 103 000 people under 2 1 were out of work. This problem, I believe, is related in part to the relative lack of skills and experience of young people leaving school. It points to an obvious need for secondary schools to broaden their concepts of educational needs and to introduce vocationally oriented skills at lower levels into more school curriculums. This would be valuable for those students less academically inclined than their fellows. Those academically inclined students will win their way through the increasingly high quota cut-off points to courses at tertiary institutions whilst the others will join the work force with some basic vocational skills related to the needs of that work force. The Work Experience Act 1 974 should be extended, for it does give students the opportunity to join the work force for short periods and provides them with some insight and some skills which they would not have previously gained. 
The introduction of the higher qualifying certificate by some independent schools is a step in the right direction. The higher qualifying certificate course, as proposed by one of the large girls' schools in Melbourne, has such subjects as business English, business mathematics, introduction to accounting, introduction to commercial and legal studies, and behavioural studies. If a student passes this HQC it leads him or her into the second year of a Certificate of Business Studies course at an agreed Advanced College of Education. Should the student fail this HQC then he or she is still better equipped to find a job with such vocationally oriented subjects. 
In the statement by the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  on the guidelines for triennial reports of education commissions and other measures dated 20 May 1976, he pointed out that tertiary institutions should be looking at some form of rationalisation both within thenown institutions and between institutions, and face the reality that some re-structuring or even phasing out of duplicated courses must occur. With the unemployment rate among university graduates at5.l per cent at 30 April 1975, that is those students who completed in the previous year, and among Colleges of Advanced Education graduates at 6.4 per cent for the same period, it is clear that such rationalisation should be given careful consideration. 
It is important that employers should also accept some responsibility for the difficulties facing school leavers. The transition from education to the work force is difficult, no matter what the educational preparation may be, and the Monash University Careers and Appointments Office commented on 27 August in its publication  Careers Weekly  that it has noticed a declining willingness and ability on the part of employers to provide the training needed to achieve this transition. It is noticeable also that there has been an enormous decline in apprenticeship opportunities for the young. The recent Government announcement of a subsidy of $58 per week will, it is hoped, help and encourage employers to employ the young. I commend the Government for this action and trust that employers generally will accept this responsibility and play their part in this effort. I believe in the area of teacher education there is also a need for a review. The Minister stated on 20 May 1976 that clearly the maximum has been reached in the level of enrolments for intending teachers. 
Consideration interrupted. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  It being 10.30 p.m., in accordance with the order of the House of 18 February 1976 I shall report progress. 
Progress reported. 
-The Department of Education will not be able to place all its studentship holders in employment as teachers this year, whilst next year the situation will be far worse, and many teachers will be actively seeking employment, throught necessity, in fields totally unrelated to their training. This again emphasises the need for academic institutions to readjust their course structures and rationalise their resources. The impact of the fall in the Australian birth rate and the drastically lowered migrant intakes, the latter the result of Labor Government policies, will move progressively through the educational system and there will be a decline in the number of students enrolling in schools in the 1980s. This will exacerbate the present situation. From now on then the Minister rightly states that any proposals for substantial capital expenditure in this area should be subjected to a rigorous rationalisation and justification both on the Government's part and by the tertiary institutions themselves. 
I turn now to an area which interests me particularlythat of migrant education. It appears that the program under the adult migrant education scheme will be limited to the maintenance of the present number of teachers and the present number of migrants enrolled in the courses. The Australian Population and Immigration Council survey showed that 66 per cent of Greek migrants cited the English language as the biggest problem they faced; 55 per cent of Yugoslavs said that it was their biggest problem, whilst a recent survey of Italian migrants claimed that it worried them also. These figures show the need for greater assistance, and I am disappointed that tins area did not receive an increase in funding. 
In my electorate of Deakin, I plan to embark upon a recruiting drive for volunteers for the Department of Education's home tutor scheme. Many organisations take part in this Department of Education scheme, and I believe that it is all important now to stress the need for more volunteers in this area. Such assistance to the nonEnglish speaking migrant is extremely vital, particularly as it applies to migrant women who are isolated in their homes. Time does not permit me to expand further on this important field. The Government in the context of economic restraint has done a great deal in the field of education by providing money and assistance for each level of education in 1977. I believe it is to be congratulated. 
Progress reported. 
I want to speak today not so much of the Ivor Greenwood that we all knew in recent years here but of the Ivor Greenwood that most honourable members would not remember. I first met him when I was an ex-service rehabilitation student attending the University of Melbourne. I used to watch this fresh faced young man going around putting up notices about Liberal Party meetings. I watched him chair meetings, often very hostile meetings attended by left wing students. I used to watch him competently control those meetings, get his message across and enable his guest  speaker  to be heard. I came to admire the man even though at that time I was not involved in politics because I was concerned that the first thing I had to do was to pass my examinations. But I soon found that I could no longer stay out of that political area. We became very great friends when he was  President  of the Liberal Club at the University of Melbourne. I can remember trips to Wilson's Promontory and various places like that where we camped out. We formed a very fine friendship during that period. We saw him become  President  of the Students' Representative Council at Melbourne University. I served on that Council as Secretary and, when he finished his university course, I finally succeeded him as  President.  Once again we had a very close relationship. As the years went on, through Liberal Party circles and here in Parliament, that friendship continued over 30 years. Today I feel that I have lost a very fine friend of many, many years. I also think that Australia has lost a very great son. He was, as the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has said, a man of great courage. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 771*7  document read as follows- 

<graphic href="101131197610214_51_1.jpg"></graphic>

I have no wish to comment on Labor's policy other than to say that many of the things put forward are presently being implemented by the Government. 
The truth of the matter is that the coalition government of the time realised that the Australian Labor Party had developed a needed policy and it decided to try to adopt that policy. The Minister referred to a report on urban transport which he commissioned from the Bureau of Transport Economics in 1972 to demonstrate his interest in urban affairs. But what he does not explain is that it was only after he had been subjected to a great deal of pressure from Premiers that he agreed to the study. However, it was only after the Australian Labor Government came to office that action was taken on the report. In the 1972 Australian Labor Party policy speech  Mr Whitlam  stated that an Austraiian Labor Party government, in recognition of the long overdue assistance to urban transport services, would: - 
. make grants to the States to enable them to operate, co-ordinate, expand and upgrade public transport systems. 
This policy was part of a wider task of improving the quality of life of Australian cities and urban areas. On taking office the Australian Labor Government initiated extensive discussions at both ministerial and official levels between the Australian and State Governments. On 1 1 July 1974 the then Minister for Transport, the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones),  introduced the States Grants (Urban Public Transport) Bill to ratify an agreement reached between the Australian and State Governments. That Bill represented a milestone in public transport in Australia. For the first time a Federal government actively pursued policies to improve the efficiency and quality of urban transport services. One of the important features of the agreement was that it took account of the interests and rights of all the parties involved, contrary to what the Minister now would have us believe. Another significant aspect of the legislation is that it provides the Australian Government with the opportunity to participate in State government planning bodies for urban transport. This was in recognition of the need to coordinate policies, exchange ideas and avoid duplication of policies and programs. The Australian Labor Government's approach was indeed one of co-operative federalism. The Australian Labor Government's allocation of funds to urban transport was the first large-scale investment of funds in urban transport since electrification of the urban rail services in Sydney in the 1920s. 
In 1960-61 an amount representing 26.3 per cent of all consolidated revenue funds for all the States was spent on public transport. In 1970-71 the figure was down to 17.9 per cent. In 1970-71 capital expenditure on urban public transport was to the order of $30m, of which one-third was for the Sydney eastern suburbs railway and the Melbourne underground. This decline in expenditure resulted in a deterioration of the transport systems and an inability to provide acceptable standards. Following the lack of finance available to urban transport services the passenger journeys declined from 1122 million to 948 million between 1961 and 1971. That is a fall of 16 per cent- while for the same period Australia's urban population increased from 5.7 million to 7.5 million. 
In March 1973 the State governments submitted a program of expenditure for a 5-year period to 1977-78. The Minister saw fit to criticise the purchase of rolling stock in the first year of the program's operation. However, half of the rail carriages of Melbourne and Sydney were purchased in 1929 while about half of Melbourne's trams were purchased in 1934. In recognition of the needs of the States- or as the Minister would say, their greatest priority- the Australian Government allocated $ 17.26m in 1973-74 for rolling stock to meet what was then an urgent problem. In 1973-74 the agreement enabled Victoria to purchase 30 passenger rail carriages and buses and New South Wales to purchase 92 passenger rail carriages. But the purchase of rolling stock was not confined to one year. In 1974-75 Queensland was able to buy 30 buses; Victoria was able to buy 37 trams and 50 new buses; South Australia was able to buy rolling stock for the Christie Downs railway, and 31 buses; Western Australia was able to buy 65 buses, and Tasmania was able to buy 66 buses, while New South Wales was able to purchase 14 electric rail cars. 
Other major projects initiated under Labor's great transport reforms were the electrification of railway lines in Queensland and New South Wales, the purchase of hydrofoils and ferries in Sydney and the erection of bus shelters in Adelaide, Sydney and Perth. On 30 July 1974 the present Minister for Transport, then in Opposition, told us: 
The common use of the motor car has permitted the luxury of living in one suburb and working in another that is not connected by public transport. 
On 9 September this year he said:  . . one significant current deficiency is the lack of adequate inter-suburban transport links. The great majority of the Australian urban work force has no direct public transport link with their work location. 
He went on to say that his Government is: 
. anxious to assist the States to provide improved public transport services to relieve congestion and pollution on suburban streets. 
What has happened is that the Minister and his Government have realised that the Australian people no longer want the bland rhetoric of the McMahon and Gorton governments; they want action to relieve their chronic transport problems. Those chronic transport problems are problems that were developed and superintended by successive Liberal-National Country Party governments over a period of 23 years in which the present Minister was the responsible Minister for a number of years. While the Minister claims an increase in assistance under this Bill for urban transport demonstrates his Government's concern for the urban environment, the truth of the matter is- I want to make this quite clear to the Parliament- that he is obliged under the public transport Acts of 1974, the 2 Acts I mentioned earlier, to respond to increases in costs of projects approved under the Acts with an increased appropriation. As the responsible Federal Minister he has a continuing obligation to the State governments under these 2 Acts- it may not be spelled out in the Act but there is an obligation there on the part of the Federal Government- to pick up the tab and to assist the States with cost increases. 
In reality the urban transport initiatives of the Whitlam Government appear to have become another victim of the Fraser razor, as it has been put to me. But they have not done as badly as have other items. The Fraser Government has cut back in real terms the amount of money allocated to local councils for expenditure and consequently on the amount of finance available for councils to spend on local road improvements. In addition, urban and regional development, which assists in channelling money through to the States for some transport programs, in the Lynch Mini-Budget of this year suffered the biggest cut of some $400m. The August Budget provided for a cut in Government expenditure on urban and regional affairs of some $198m and the abolition of funds for area improvement programs for 13 local government regions. The Government's decision not to provide funds for any new projects under the Act will prolong the crisis of Australian cities. 
The Australian community is mindful of the importance of urban public transport programs. In a recently published opinion poll 52 per cent of those interviewed said that more should be spent on improving public transport. The poll was conducted on a national basis and revealed that 29 per cent of Australians are dissatisfied with train services, while 50 per cent of regular train travellers were dissatisfied with the services. The poll showed that 31 per cent said that they were dissatisfied with bus services and 42 per cent of regular bus travellers said they were dissatisfied with the services provided. The poll is especially condemnatory of the Australian public transport system when it reveals that 67 per cent of those interviewed said that they usually travelled by private car and only 1 5 per cent said that they normally travelled by bus, 8 per cent by train and 5 per cent by tram and ferry. 
The squalor of public transport reflects years of neglect of transport investment, decisions made by the Liberal-Country Party Government of the period 1949 to 1972 based simply on the pressure of car manufacturers and the road lobby; that is, more money on roads and less money on urban public transport. The Australian Labor Party recognises the growing number of social and environmental considerations which simply are not quantifiable in money terms. Congestion in Austraiian cities has reached intolerable proportions. We must improve our public transport systems so that there is an attractive alternative to private car use as we will never be able to construct enough highways to avoid congestion and accommodate the continuing growth in the numbers of cars. The congestion of our metropolitan roads has led to a large increase in urban road accidents and a massive redistribution of land use facilities toward the transport industry. 
The Liberal-National Country Party Government cannot simply sit back and say that it is interested in urban public transport because it has provided a marginal increase in funds on 1975-76 figures. In fact this Bill would not be before the House if there had not been a Whitlam Labor Government to initiate these programs in 1974. New initiatives need to be taken to meet this urgent situation. We cannot meet our future needs simply by allocating our resources to just one transport mode. We must move in the direction of a balanced system of transport. Only when the private car is complemented by adequate public transport services can we expect to meet these needs. Let me illustrate this point: To relieve the congestion and the crowding of our central business districts we must not only provide incentives for people to leave their cars outside these areas, but we must also seek to accommodate their travelling needs in these areas. 
Integration of different modes of transport would appear to be the significant development in these areas. Integration of road and rail services would allow commuters to move within the central business district and to their homes. However, individuals who are normally content with buses within the central business district may also at times require a faster service on specific occasions. Provision should therefore be made for better co-ordination of taxi services within Australian cities. In addition, investigations should be undertaken into co-ordinating the urban public transport system with car hire services. I think it is quite clear that if a greater utilisation could be made of taxi services within the central business district of our major cities and a lesser use of private vehicles there would be a more efficient result in terms of movement of people and in the reduction of pollution. At the same time there seems to be in Australia a growing move towards the utilisation of hire cars. If this is to follow and to develop, as I believe it is developing- I believe this is the major area of the new market in the activities of these companiesin its turn it will also provide a reduction in the number of privately owned motor vehicles within the urban area and inner urban areas of our major cities. 
I do not think that people realise sufficiently the costs of running a motor vehicle. I have had the Commonwealth Parliamentary Library prepare for me some comparative figures on the cost of operating a motor vehicle. These figures take into account that 75 per cent of the cost of a car is financed on a personal loan at 9 per cent flat interest and a depreciation rate of 22.5 per cent per annum. The costs per 100 kilometres on that basis of a Toyota Corolla are $13.85; a Mazda Capella 1600, $15.25; a Holden Kingswood automatic, $18.60; and a Ford Fairlane, $26.24. We can make a comparison, using those figures, with the cost of making a trip by rail and I have taken one of our popular or well known commuter services. The return trip from Gosford to Central Station by road is 170 kilometres. The cost of operating a Toyota Corolla along that 170 kilometres, based on the table that I have mentioned, would be $23.55. The return cost of a train ticket is $3.40. The cost based on a weekly ticket is $1.42. 1 seek leave of the House to have the table incorporated in  Hansard  for the benefit of honourable members. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The documents read as follows- 


<graphic href="101131197610214_54_2.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="101131197610214_54_3.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="101131197610214_54_5.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="101131197610214_55_6.jpg"></graphic>

The inadequacy of public transport penalises the weaker members of the communityhousewives with young children, young children alone, teenagers, the elderly, the disabled and the poor. Transport policy should not cater for the privileged at the expense of the many categories of people who are now poorly served. The transport system is not only a basis of Australian prosperity; it is also a key element in urban and regional development policies and transport policy must be conscious of that important link. Not only will it provide speedy and efficient links with other major centres and capital cities but also an effective and sound public transport system should be incorporated in plans for the development of growth centres and satellite cities. 
The Minister tabled an attachment with his second reading speech setting out the revisions to the previously approved programs. Significantly the paper does not contain any revisions for the State of Queensland. Some honourable members this morning would have heard the Treasurer of Queensland deprecating the Fraser Government for its failure to provide additional funds for urban public transport in Queensland.  Mr Knox  correctly pointed out that increased expenditure on roads and public transport would give a stimulus to the private sector. It would provide more jobs and increase consumer expenditure. 
But later this morning we heard the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  reject out of hand the proposals that had been put by  Mr Knox,  the Queensland Treasurer. As Queensland is not listed in the table of revised programs, I want to make particular note of the position in Brisbane because I think that the situation of that city in terms of urban public transport is unique. Indeed, it is one of unique disadvantage for Brisbane taxpayers and ratepayers. During the 3 years ending with the current financial year $753,000 was provided by the Whitlam Labor Government to the Brisbane City Council and on-forwarded by the State Government for the purchase of 30 buses. Some of these buses have been delivered and some are in the process of delivery. At the same time, the Brisbane City Council, through its transport authority, ordered 75 buses. 
The unique disadvantage that Brisbane faces is that Brisbane ratepayers are also national taxpayers, the Brisbane bus service is financed and operated by the people- by the ratepayers of Brisbane- and the losses that it incurs are financed by the ratepayers of Brisbane. However the taxes that are paid by Brisbane ratepayers go to the national Consolidated Revenue and the Brisbane City Council is getting nothing whatsoever towards the costs of providing a transport service. I do not know whether this position is the result of acrimony between the Fraser Government and the Queensland Government, and quite clearly there is a great deal of that developing. I cannot determine whether that is the reason. I cannot determine either whether the Queensland Government did in fact submit to the Department of Transport a request for a revised program of the projects that have already been approved. I understand it did. Again my information may not be correct and I cannot vouch for it. But whatever the cause, Queensland does not appear in that revised program. No help has been provided at all in the current Budget or in this Bill to the Brisbane City Council to enable it to proceed with the purchase of the 75 buses I have mentioned. If the Brisbane ratepayer as a taxpayer is to contribute to the urban public transport programs of other cities outside Queensland surely there is a case to be answered by the Queensland Government and the present Federal Government. Someone needs to get together to come to the assistance of the Brisbane City Council in this area of responsibility and to give recognition to the entitlements of Brisbane ratepayers. 
Earlier this year I attended for one day only a seminar on the marketing of urban public transport, which was conducted in Melbourne and to which the present Minister for Transport kindly extended me an invitation. I would like to remind the House - 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

-I ask the Prime Minister What is the position relating to industrial disputes concerning John Fairfax and Sons Ltd in Sydney? Can the Government take any action in this matter? 
-Ii leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
-Is the amendment seconded? 
I ask the Minister for Defence: Is he aware that some persons, who I am led to believe are members of the media, have undertaken independent tests to check the security of Navy ships? If so, is the Minister aware of the outcome of such tests? 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the 3 matters? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
-Yes, leave has been granted. 
-I propose the question: 
That the House do now adjourn. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. Has the Government taken any action to seek the views of other Commonwealth Heads as to dissociating themselves from the regime of  President  Amin of Uganda? In view of  President  Amin's repeated assertions that he will attend the Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting, has the Government taken any action to dissuade him from attending? 
-That is correct. I did intend to stop the Deputy Leader of the Opposition at the end of the sentence. 
Turning to the broad generalisation which makes up most of the Queen's Speech, we reject the whole philosophy which underlies it. It states quite hypocritically the Government's commitment to increase the freedom, opportunity and equality of the Austraiian people. It goes on to express concern about enhancing people's ability to make their own choices and live their own lives in their own way. Both propositions are absurd in the context of the massive unemployment which we now face. In simple terms, the degree of inequality in the community increases as unemployment increases. Unemployed people have no choice but bare subsistence. They have no freedom but the freedom to survive. They have no equality except with their fellow unemployed. Certainly they live their lives in their own way but they lead grim lives lacking any real opportunity or dignity. This is the true meaning of the cliches about freedom, equality and opportunity. 
The Government's blatant program of public sector bashing has increased unemployment. In the last year of the Labor Government there was a steady improvement in employment prospects. We recognised that this improvement was dependent on sustained public sector spending, in particular on keeping up the spending levels on capital works programs which provide jobs. The 
Fraser Government rejects this approach. In the double talk of the Queen's Speech, it reduced its own relative demand on national resources. In plain English, it wiped out capital spending and it wiped out jobs. It increased the damage by providing investment incentives for private companies. In effect, companies were encouraged to replace workers with machines. Mining companies that undertake large capital expenditure provide relatively few jobs. The result has been the chaos which now confronts us- a battered labour market and a constant decline in long term job creation. 
In the face of bad structural problems in the economy, the Government has adopted the worst possible mix of measures. It has encouraged private firms to trim their work force and devote all of their resources to investment in new equipment. This trend might have been inevitable but it should not have been speeded up when jobs are the most vital need in this country. At the same time the Government has not used its powers to create jobs, not even temporary jobs. It has deliberately wiped out thousands of existing jobs. We now face the fact that the unemployment problems now facing Australia are not a passing phase. We are in a position of severe structural unemployment. It has been emerging over the past 10 to 15 years and now its impact has been multiplied by the world wide recession. If there should be some sort of economic recovery, and on the latest figures we see little hope of an early lift in the economy, employment will not return to former levels. 
A similar pattern has occurred in all of the Western economies. According to the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, unemployment will rise in its member countries during 1977. There will be little improvement in employment for at least 5 years. The OECD is not noted for putting forward soft options, but to its credit it has supported the use of the public sector to create jobs and to ease the misery of unemployment. This Government is prepared to use the OECD when it suits its purpose but it ignores the OECD's advice to approach the unemployment problem with compassion. 
This is the reality behind the claim in the Queen's Speech that the Government's economic program is designed to overcome unemployment. This is the reality behind the Prime Minister's completely fictitious claim that 80 000 people left their jobs without another job in view. The reference to programs designed to assist young people who are out of work is just as contemptible. The little that has been done has been directed to areas which are not those which have the greatest need. The western sectors of Sydney and Melbourne have been virtually untouched by these programs. There is no doubt that the crushing burden of unemployment exists in these areas. There is Utile evidence that the Government's programs have had an impact on job opportunities in provincial dues or country towns where unemployment is also concentrated. These programs might have been of some benefit as pilot programs in an economy where there were structural problems but the level of unemployment was generally stable. This is not the case in Australia at the moment. We need extensive employment development schemes directed and funded by the Australian Government and we need them now. The Government has shirked this responsiblity and it cannot point to the few meagre youth programs to absolve its neglect. 
I turn now from unemployment to another issue raised by the Queen's Speech- the question of industrial relations. It is a matter of supreme irony that the main industrial issue dealt with in the Speech followed a homily on individual liberties and human rights. A number of measures for the protection of fundamental freedoms were outlined such as those relating to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal, the Commonwealth Ombudsman, the Human Rights Commission and the freedom of information legislation. There was no reference to the fact that one of these measures was the work of a Labor government. In fact they all were the work of a Labor government. However there was no mention of that or recognition of it on the part of this Government. The Speech went on to extend these principles to the area of industrial relations and here the crunch comes. Let me quote this section in full. It states: 
In the area of industrial relations, one of vital importance to the economic and social well-being of the Australian community, my Government will bring down legislation to protect the rights of individuals and the community, and establish an industrial relations bureau. 
The kick comes in the final words- the Government will 'establish an industrial relations bureau'. This Government pledges itself to the protection of individual liberties and human rights and against unwarranted instrusions. Yet it is prepared to establish a bureau which will subject a vital part of our social and economic organisation, the trade union movement, to unwarranted intrusion. It will destroy once and for all the right of the trade unions to organise their own affairs and to work fearlessly for the welfare of their union members. Let me remind the House that this Government put these words into the mouth of a monarch who is also the Queen of England, the home of the social contract. We should remind the Fraser Government that the British Labour Government, like other enlightened governments in Europe, has sought the co-operation of the trade union movement, not confrontation with it. It consulted with the British trade union movement and entered with it into a contractual agreement which has become known as the social contract. In return the trade unions acted with restraint and patience in a time of economic difficulty and the British Government made concessions which recognise the great burdens borne by those workers. There was a spirit of co-operation and conciliation in a dme of extreme economic hardship. 
We face just as pressing problems here in the Australian economy yet we find no spirit of cooperation or conciliation on the part of the Fraser Government. It looks for coercion and confrontation. The Queen would not have known from the words put before her that this Government is proposing an industrial police force. She would not know that her Government is invoking social coercion and social chaos instead of building a social contract. 
This Government does not want tolerance and co-operation from the Australian labour movement. It has begun a violent and carefully timed attack on the Australian work force and on the trade unions which guard its rights. This Government has been working to open the way for the unwarranted intrusion of an industrial police force into the trade unions. The Prime Minister has instructed the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation to resume its interference with the individual liberties and human rights of trade unions and trade unionists. These unwarranted intrusions will be multiplied a hundred-fold when the Government launches its Industrial Relations Bureau against the Australian labour movement. It would be unreal to expect a government which has broken all of its election pledges and promises to enter into a social contract. How could we ever trust this Government, the Fraser Government, which was elected by deceit and has been a government of deceit ever since? How could it ever enter into a social contract with the Australian labour movement in order to bring about some co-operation? All that this Government has sought to do while it has been in office has been to restrain the trade union movement and to transfer income from the wage packet to the private sector, and that private sector has been big business. That has consistently been the line of this Fraser Government. 
A contract is based on mutual offer and acceptance by 2 parties, entered into in good faith. How could our trade union movement enter into a contract in good faith with a government such as the one that is governing Australia now- a government of deceit? Government supporters talked about indexation. They said that their Government would support full indexation. But what has happened? The Government has gone before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission on this occasion, when there should be a 6 per cent increase in line with full indexation, and has said that the Commission should give only a portion of that amount of increase. So now can there be good faith with this Government? How can there be a social contract in this country? A social contract was entered into in Britain. Social contracts have been entered into in many other countries in Europe. This Government has never been able to do it. The governments in those countries sought the co-operation of the trade union movement, but this Government is seeking confrontation. This Government has shown itself to be incapable of coming to any sort of agreement. 
I conclude my remarks by looking at one other disturbing aspect of the Queen's Speech- the section which deals with the so-called 'new federalism'. I have not time to go into any great detail, but I want to look at the broad implications of this policy. According to the Speech, steps have been taken to reverse the trends towards the concentration of power in the hands of the Commonwealth Government. Already the power of the Commonwealth has been weakened by the scrapping of a number of programs and the overall contraction of public spending, particularly in the public sector. There are very grave dangers for the Australian people in the approach the Fraser Government has adopted in devolving its economic powers. We live in an era when big business- particularly the multinational companies- exercises enormous economic powers. In many ways State and local governments lack the capacity to deal on an equal basis with big business. Big international companies force State governments into harmful competition amongst themselves. These companies can use their collective power and work through agencies of their governments in order to pick off Australian resources. Only a Federal government could have the power and the resources to counter these tactics. 
It is wrong, in the international context we now face, to give power back to the States which compete with each other in giving the biggest concessions to big companies. We already have a situation in which the Queensland Government and the Western Australian Government have more interests in common with the foreign multinationals and foreign governments than with their fellow countrymen and their own Federal Government. By weakening the Federal Government and directing powers back to the States, this Government is moving into a situation in which no Australian government will be sufficiently strong to resist big business. By that I mean not only big business in this country but also the general multinationals which in fact have such a grip on the resources of this nation. This Government is eroding the central economic powers which have been built up with much difficulty over the past 75 years. No Federal Government would consider throwing away our defence strength in such a manner. Economic power is even more important in the present context. It is wrong to spread it too thinly as this Government is bent on doing. 
In summary, the Queen has given us a deeply disturbing document. It is a document which gives full rein to the Fraser ideology of mindless rejection of the public sector. It is an ideology based on a naked transfer of power from the Government to the private sector. Above all, it is an ideology which strikes at the economic welfare of the Australian workers and one which we must resist. The Speech was so short and appeared so empty. But I believe that, if we study the meaning of its words, we look at treachery. The whole Fraser Government right from its beginning has been a Government of treachery. I know that eventually that will be understood by the Australian people. 
I ask the Minister for Post and Telecommunications whether the Australian Telecommunications Commission has let a contract to a French company for the supply of teleprinter and associated equipment. Was the intention to let this contract brought before the Cabinet sub-committee which was established to consider the interests of local firms and existing employment? Is the Minister satisfied with the criteria of cost advantage and technical superiority which resulted in the Telecom order going to a French company? Will the Minister give the House detailed information of how the decision was justified? 
I found it very interesting to listen to the honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin)  and hear him say that the present Government should get out of office and hand back to the Australian Labor Party the situation as it now is. I found it interesting because now we are beginning to see for the first time since this Government took office some progress towards undoing the evil and the bad that was done by the Labor Party in government. I enjoyed listening to the speech of the honourable member for Banks. It was a considered speech and it was an interesting speech. It is a little late for him now to be worrying about the fact that Vietnam, Laos and Cambodia have fallen to the communists and that possibly Thailand could fall to the communists in the future, because many people on the Government side of the Parliament told him that back in 1 966 and he scoffed at the so-called domino theory. He thought that it would not ever happen. It was interesting to hear him admit tonight that it actually has happened. Laos, Vietnam and Cambodia have fallen to the communists and, as he has predicted, perhaps Thailand will be next in line. 
However I agree with what he said about the former honourable member for Holt,  Mr Len  Reid. I have worked in conjunction with Len Reid, who was a fellow Liberal member in Victoria for a number of years. I have a great respect for him. Even though he is no longer a member of either the Victorian Parliament or this Parliament he has done a terrific job in the organisation of which he is  president,  For Those Who Have Less. When I was in New Guinea with him on one occasion he was busy organising with a 
Catholic mission to send to New Guinea cattle which could be used for breeding and so help the people of New Guinea. He has done a great deal in India and other countries to see that help is given. 
Tonight I want to speak not so much about that matter as about the Speech of Her Majesty the Queen and some of the things that were involved in that Speech. The Speech by Her Majesty the Queen on the occasion of the opening of this the second session of the Thirtieth Parliament set out many of the past achievements of the Government and its program for the future. Her Majesty spoke of the qualities of the Australian people and of the great promise and the great challenge which lie ahead for our nation. I was disappointed at the time that it was not until the last few paragraphs of the Speech that the Australian ethnic community was mentioned, and then it said only that consultation with migrant communities and imaginative experiments, whatever that may mean, with migrant resource centres were under way. This of course was understandable as the Green Paper on immigration policies and Australia's population was due to be tabled and debated in this House, as it was yesterday. I had intended to participate in that debate as I am particularly concerned about immigration policy, but this was not possible as the debate in this House was curtailed. I intend to take the opportunity tonight of speaking about our migration policy. 
I hope that the Green Paper on immigration policies and Australia's population will stimulate throughout the community dialogue and debate regarding the quantity and quality of Australia's migrant intake. It was an excellent paper and no doubt the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  will be submitting to Cabinet in the not too distant future a report based on its findings. The Green Paper stated that Australia's migrant intake might need to be boosted to 200 000 in the next decade or so to cope with labour shortages similar to those experienced in the late 1950s. It said that the 1980s and the 1990s might be a critical time for the labour market and stated that Australia could absorb an annual net intake of 50 000 people. A net gain of 50 000 people would involve an annual intake of 100 000 migrants. The Paper also pointed out that Australia's birth rate had plummeted to a level at which births will soon be offset by deaths. The slower population growth would mean a slower growth in the labour force, possible labour shortages in the 1990s, smaller numbers of school age children and a progressive ageing of the population. It said that if immigration were stopped completely the country would be unable to replace the skills of the 30 000 to 40 000 Australians who leave the country each year. 
Post-war migration to Australia reached a peak of 185 000 immigrants under the LiberalCountry Party Government in 1969-70. This figure dwindled to only 50 000 in 1975 under the Labor Government's restrictive immigration guide lines- the lowest figure since post-war migration commenced. In actual fact there was a net loss in 1975 of more than 6000, perhaps almost 8000, in the number of people entering and leaving the country- the first net loss since our present immigration program commenced in 1946. The rate of natural population increase in 1975 was only 0.85 per cent. Australia had virtually come to zero population growth. Former Liberal and Country Party governments had set a goal of at least a 2 per cent annual population growth rate- 1 per cent through natural birth and 1 per cent through immigration. Until the present Government increased the target for this year to 70 000 from the figure of 50 000 set by the Whitlam Labor Government, it appeared that the population growth rate would not be enough to support the predicted economic growth of this country in the future. 
The Whitlam Labor Government reduced the inflow of immigrants because it believed that migrants coming to this country would add to its economic problems by increasing unemployment. This has not been the experience in Canada, and there is strong evidence to show that migrant inflow creates demands and sets a climate for economic growth. In other words, properly selected migrants have a favourable impact on unemployment, and it was wrong for the Whitlam Government to have turned off the migration tap when Australia's birth rate was falling. It is also worthy to note that it has been estimated that migrant unemployment is approximately half the national average. It is true that we cannot just turn the migration tap on and off at will. I believe that it would in Australia's best interests if the Government were immediately to increase the immigration target from 70 000 to 100 000. That would probably give us a net population increase of some 50 000 people, as stated in the Green Paper. 
Australia has gained enormously from the contribution made by its migrant population. Also it has much to gain in the future. I believe strongly that we should be concerned about Australia's international image as we have a static population and enormous resources whilst our neighbours have few resources and overpopulation problems. We have a moral obligation to take more migrants into this vast, rich country. I am of the opinion that the present rules of entry are far too strict. Day after day, week after week honourable members receive refusals to cases which they have submitted to the Minister because the applicants do not fall into one of the job categories or because they are not parents or dependent children of people already in Australia. Under our present guidelines, to be a brother or a sister is not good enough. I dealt with the case of an Italian who runs a successful contracting business in my electorate. He wishes to bring his single brother out to work for his firm. He would supply him with accommodation and any other assistance that he might need on arrival in this country. I believe that, with the help of his brother, the man could easily be absorbed into the Australian way of life.  His  application has been refused. Thus a future good Australian is lost to us, not because there is anything wrong with him but because he does not meet our restrictive guidelines. 
He is a good worker and would prove to be so. I have met him. I have dealt with another case of a lady from Sri Lanka who has 3 sisters and her mother here. She intended to come to Australia with her husband and I understand that this would have been possible because her husband was a doctor, which is one of the job categories allowed. He would have been acceptable to the Austraiian Medical Association. However, just before they applied for entry her husband died suddenly and her application was thus refused. She was not able to join other members of her family in Australia because of that situation. I know the woman. I have been to her home in Sri Lanka. I have been entertained there. I know that she would have proved to be a good Australian. I am told that the standard of applicants wishing to come to Australia has never been higher than it is at present. While we are using every restrictive criterion here in Australia, Canada is availing itself of these people. Australia's loss is Canada's gain. Four and a quarter million of Australia's population today were either born overseas or born to parents who were born overseas. This is one third of all the people in Australia. 
Much of our economic wealth today has been contributed to largely by people who migrated to this country. They have added greatly to Australia's culture and economic wealth. Perhaps the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  may disagree with me, but then the Australian Labor Party has never been good to migrants in this country since the days of Arthur Calwell who first introduced this scheme and who pursued it very well and to great lengths. Now the Labor Party is suddenly prepared, for political reasons, to cultivate the ethnic community in our country, but it is not prepared to bring any more migrants to Australia. Let the migrant community know that it was the Whitlam Labor Government that cut down migration for the first time to give us a net outflow of people from Australia. I believe that we are being horribly short sighted- not only the Labor Government before us but even the present Government, even though it has expanded migration- in restricting our immigration to such an extent. I hope that, following the publishing of the Green Paper on immigration policies and Australia's population, the Government will review our whole migration program. I would like to see our former, pre-Labor policy reinstated and upgraded. I believe that we could readily absorb 100 000 migrants next year. I hope that the Government will make a decision to that effect without delay. Australia has everything to gain and nothing to lose if that decision is taken as soon as possible. 
-I direct my question to the Minister for Primary Industry in his capacity as Leader of the House. I ask: Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a recent campaign by a political party to solicit funds from industry? If this is so, is it correct, as has been claimed, that the campaign contains certain misrepresentations? 
-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. The honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  said during his speech that I had made a speech in 1 97 1 and that I have now changed my views. I have not changed my views and I stand by everything I said in 1971. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The tables read as follows- 


<graphic href="105131197705041_31_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="105131197705041_32_1.jpg"></graphic>

It is worth emphasising, as the honourable member for Adelaide mentioned in passing, that it was the Mathews Committee set up in early 1975 by the previous Government and which reported in about May 1975 which highlighted these facts. It went on to point out that if nothing was done, it would mean the end of the private enterprise system in Australia. That perhaps explains why the then Labor Government, in the Hayden Budget of 1975 which came after the report of the Mathews Committee, chose to ignore the Committee's recommendations. Thus in the Budget of 1975 nothing was done to alleviate the effects to which I have been pointing. This Government is not ignoring those recommendations; hence this trading stock valuation adjustment in clause 8 of the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill which gives effect to the first stage of implementing the recommendations of the Mathews Committee and the election undertaking, in this respect, of this Government. 
In essence the measure provides for a deduction from taxable profits of an amount which in most cases will approximate about 50 per cent of that fictitious profit element to which I have referred earlier. It is approximate because the Bill provides for the deduction to be calculated by increasing the opening stock in accordance with the goods component of the consumer price index. The deduction is then to be half of the difference between the value so arrived at and the opening value. That is a single procedure to be applied to all businesses rather than to take for each company half the difference between its opening stock valued at beginning and end of period prices of the particular stock. That would have created significant administrative difficulties and, therefore, this simpler procedure has been adopted. Broadly, it will mean that a deduction of the order of 50 per cent of the fictitious element to which I referred earlier will be allowed. By that means companies will be relieved of the burden of paying tax at 42  Vi  per cent on that 50 per cent component. 
The estimate of the tax saving contained in the speech of the Treasurer is, as the honourable member for Adelaide pointed out, $360m in respect of this financial year 1976-77. It may be less if, as the December quarter National Accounts suggest, the stock value rise turns out to be less because of reduced inflation. The December quarter figures suggest that the figure will be significantly less than that included in the the estimate which I have incorporated and which was provided by the Melbourne Institute. So be it. The lesser tax saving would be appropriate since the distortion, the fictitious profit element, will be less. That is all to the good. 
The legislation to provide for this trading stock valuation adjustment- clause 8 of the Bill- is inevitably long and complex. There are varying situations to provide for- the situation where there is a sale of a business, or a liquidation, and so on. And of course there must be safeguards against attempts to exploit the measure in ways other than the intention of the measure which I have sought to indicate in the broad to the House. Time prevents me from going into these complexities. I repeat again that this is a very significant measure of company tax reform, for the large business as for the small business. With the latter case the change to Division 7 of the principal Act as well, will result in a substantial increase in the liquidity of businesses and will thereby add to the capacity of business to retain and to invest profits in new equipment and ventures. As I said earlier, today's investments are tomorrow's new and permanent jobs. So what this legislation is all about is the long term health of our quasi free enterprise system and the full and meaningful employment of all Australians. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The document read as follows- 7 1 Stonehaven Crescent DEAKIN, A.C.T. 2600 11 May 1977 
The  Hon.  W. C. Wentworth, M.P. 
Parliament House 
CANBERRA, A.C.T. 2600 
Dear Bill, 
I agree that the document 'Budget Accounts and Deficits' is misleading. 
In paragraph 29 it is stated that 'in terms of their economic impact, expenditures on capital works are no different from current expenditures'. This is a breathtaking example of  suppressio veri.  The statement is true in the very short run, but in a longer run it is grossly untrue. It is because of their different economic effects that it is prudent to finance current expenditures from current revenue and capital works from loans. 
In paragraph 30 it is stated that 'there are no particular reasons why the financing of capital works in the central Government sector should be handled differently from the financing of current expenditures'. This is no doubt intended to imply that capital works should be financed from current revenue. But if there were no difference between the economic impact of current expenditures and of expenditures on capital works, the statement could be interpreted to mean the precise opposite and to support the arguments of those who propose that taxes be reduced and the short-fall financed from loans. 
The objection raised in paragraph 24 that increased borrowing would involve higher rates of interest is of highly doubtful validity. One of our problems today is that people will not spend their incomes, and savings are accumulating or running to waste. If the increased disposable income left in the hands of taxpayers by a reduction in taxes were allowed to accumulate in deposits with banks (and not withdrawn by official deflationary actions) the funds for financing the increased borrowing would be available without any increase in interest rates. If, on the other hand, taxpayers increased their spending, the national income would increase, Government revenues would grow and expenditure on unemployment and welfare would decrease. The amount the Government had to borrow would be sharply decreased and might be financed by the increased savings of individuals and by the cash flow of firms. 
Though socialists might dissent, I should expect a Liberal Government to agree that individuals should be given the greatest possible freedom in the spending and investing of their incomes. It follows that taxes should be kept as low as is prudent. It would not be prudent to keep taxes so low that over a period of years current expenditures were financed by loans. This would lead to an accumulating public debt and eventual financial disorder. This would, however, not be the case if the Government borrowed to finance capital works which could be expected to increase the national income. The revenue to meet the interest charges would flow to the Government without any increase in rates of taxes. 
Some capital expenditure will increase the comfort and enjoyment of people over many years without increasing the national income in ways that will bring the Government more revenue. Illustrations are hospitals, an galleries, museums, stadiums and public buildings. While the financing of these by loans may result in increases in rates of taxes in future years, it is reasonable that those who enjoy the benefits should meet part of the cost instead of the whole tax cost falling on the present generation. Such expenditure should however be restrained so as not to impose too heavy a tax burden on future generations or too difficult a loan raising problem on the present. 
If budgetary policy is to have healthy economic effects it is, therefore, fundamental that current expenditures should be met from current revenue and capital expenditures from loans. Despite this basic proposition there are good reasons for financing capital expenditures from current revenue in times of boom because of its deflationary effects, but there are equally good reasons, in depressions, to press the financing of capital works, and even current expenditures as far as is prudent, from loans. 
How far is prudent? There is very little evidence today that the inflationary pressures are due to excessive demand. The pressures are almost entirely cost pressures due to increases in wages, both current increases and the cumulative effect of past increases, and the higher cost of imports. In these circumstances, it should be prudent to finance capital works from loans and some part of current expenditure. If an agreement could be reached for the trade unions to accept wage restraint in exchange for a reduction in taxes, there might be no increase in inflationary pressures as a result of the increased Government borrowings, and no increase in rates of interest. If there were no wage restraint there would be inflationary pressures, but these must be faced whether recovery comes from Government action or private initiative. It would be foolish to stop recovery. We must find some other way to stop inflation. 
In paragraph 29 it is stated that 'in terms of their economic impact, expenditures on capital works are no longer different from current expenditures . This is a breathtaking example of  suppressio veri.  The statement is true in the very short run, but in a longer run it is grossly untrue. 
He goes on: 
The objection raise in paragraph 24 that increased borrowing would involve higher rates of interest is of highly doubtful validity. 
This is from the man who has had the most experience in the Australian capital market of any man alive. The letter continues: 
If budgetary policy is to have healthy economic effects it is, therefore, fundamental that current expenditures should be met from current revenue and capital expenditures from loans. Despite this basic proposition there are good reasons for financing capital expenditures from current revenue in times of boom because of its deflationary effects, but there are equally good reasons, in depressions, to press the financing of capital works, and even current expenditures as far as is prudent, from loans. 
He concludes: 
If there were no wage restraint there would be inflationary pressures, but these must be faced whether recovery comes from Government action or private initiative. It would be foolish to stop recovery. We must find some other way to stop inflation. 
Those are views which I share and have expressed from time to time. In support of my views I have quoted those of the man in Australia who should be the most listened to of all people because he has the widest experience in this field. 
It seems to me elementary that there has to be a change in the presentation of government accounts. The Treasurer's estimates for last year showed a deficit of $2,608m. That deficit, on the Treasurer's own letter to me, was after debiting in $3, 869m for capital works, and that included the whole of the States' loan programs appearing as part of the Federal deficit. I believe that a succession of Federal Treasurers have failed to understand this. They have been bemused by the Treasury, and it is damn well dme that this nonsense stopped because it is strangling the Australian recovery. I do not suggest for one moment that a different presentation of the accounts will decrease in any way the total amount that has to be raised by loan, but let us do the honest thing. Let us call it, as it is called overseas, a public sector borrowing requirement. Let us stop the kind of nonsense which was had from the Treasurer when he said 'I am going to balance my Budget eventually. That means I am going to charge all my capital works against taxation. ' Think what that would mean for the Australian economy. 
My question is addressed to the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs. In view of the continued provocative statements made by the Prime Minister, the Foreign Minister and other Ministers of this country against the Republic of South Africa, a country with whom we have ties going back over many years, with whom we have considerable trade connections, and with whom we have diplomatic relations and exchange ambassadors, is the Government contemplating breaking diplomatic relations with South Africa? How else does he explain the actions of the various Ministers? Is the Government simply currying to the communist and Afro-Arab bloc in the United Nations? 
It gives me great pleasure to rise in this debate to join with those economists, political commentators and others who have praised this Budget. Who would have thought when the Government came to office 20 months ago that the tax formula could have been restructured as it has been in this Budget? When the Whitlam Labor Government was elected in December 1972 unemployment was approximately 1 . 4 per cent of the work force. Inflation was running at about 4.5 per cent. When the Whitlam Government was dismissed from office by the people 3 years later, unemployment had escalated to 5 per cent and inflation to 16 per cent. The Fraser Government inherited a very sick economy from its predecessors. 
During the past 20 months the Government has made a reduction in inflation its number one target. It is a remarkable achievement that inflation has now been reduced to less than 1 1 per cent. However, strong inflationary pressures are still at work. This Budget is designed to continue to contain inflation. The cut in personal income tax is one measure which the Government has employed in its fight against inflation. Its impact will be to bring about a redistribution of income from the Government to the people, with the greatest proportional gain going to the lower and middle income earners. This is in line with the Government's commitment to reduce the burden of income tax and thus to restore the incentive for personal effort. Every taxpayer will benefit to some extent from the restructuring in the Budget of the tax system. 
Unlike salary rises, tax cuts are noninflationary. They should, however, provide a further stimulus to demand, which should lead to expanded output. They will give a considerable boost to the economy. Since industry is operating well below capacity at the present time a lift in output would cut unit costs of production and increase productivity. Such an expansionary policy would prove more effective in winding down inflation than a policy based purely on contraction. 
Further measures taken by the Government in its fight against inflation have been to budget for a deficit of $2,270m this financial year-a reduction of $523m on the past financial year- and also to reduce the ever growing Commonwealth Public Service by one per cent. However, despite these cuts, the Government has honoured its promise to pensioners and pensions will rise in November by $2.20 to $49.30 a week for single pensioners and by $3.70 to $82.20 a week for married pensioners. Despite the squeals from Labor supporters in the left wing teachers' unions, spending on education will increase by 9.8 percent. The massive sum of $2,371m will be allocated by the Commonwealth Government to education this financial year. Higher student allowances will be paid from the beginning of 1978. Assistance to the handicapped will be increased by 33 per cent to $93m a year. 
Unemployment is a continuing problem that should be of concern to all Australians. When the present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  was Prime Minister, he used to tell us that unemployment was not the fault of his Government; it was a world wide problem. Now that he is in opposition, of course, he tries to tell our Government that unemployment, which we inherited from his Government, is all our fault and due to our policies. Nothing is to be achieved by trying to gain cheap political points in this way. Unemployment is too great a problem and it should concern us all. It is not only an economic but also a social problem. How wrong it is that in a country such as ours, rich in natural resources and in need of so much development, we are paying people because we cannot provide them with work. 
I believe that unemployment is one of the greatest challenges facing this Government and the people of this country today. We face this problem in common with many other Western industrialised countries. It is a problem which we must tackle with all our energy. Australia has a lower unemployment rate than the average rate for the 24 member countries of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. However, the proportion of the unemployed who are aged under 25 years is higher in Australia than it is in most other OECD countries. In Australia about 55 per cent of the unemployed are aged between 15 years and 24 years. If these young people spend many years at school and perhaps at tertiary institutions, as our society requires of them, merely to find there is no work for them within that society, they will question the worth of the training and of the society itself. 
Another group which deserves attention comprises those who have worked for 20 or 30 years and suddenly find they are amongst the unemployed. These people have a great deal to contribute by way of expertise and skills, and employers should look closely at preconceived ideas regarding age limits for job applicants. There are many people who want to work and to contribute to society. It is morally wrong to label all those who receive unemployment benefits 'dole bludgers', as some people do. It should be pointed out, however, that in our society today there are some people who unfortunately do not want to give; they want only to take. These are the people who abuse the benefits system. They cannot and should not be tolerated in our society. In the  Australian  of 16 April 1977 it was reported that the results of a survey by the Bureau of Statistics indicated that only 49.8 per cent of those who were unemployed were genuinely looking for work. Among the rest of the jobless 15.5 per cent gave false addresses and 1.2 per cent gave non-existent addresses. 
Total unemployment benefits have gone up over the past 10 years from $1 lm to $567m. The number of young people under 2 1 years of age who were unemployed rose by approximately 80,000 to 152,000 during the time of the Whitlam Labor Government. I quote an admission made by the Leader of the Opposition in an address he gave to the National Press Club in Canberra on 20 July 1 977: ... the Labor Government was too slow to perceive the dangers of sudden and excessive growth of wages in 1974. 
He went on to state: 
With hindsight, we ought to have done more to urge caution on the Arbitration Commission and other tribunals. 
That was a masterpiece of understatement by the Leader of the Opposition. The largest increases in real wages in 1974 flowed to young people by way of increased wages to adult rates and to women through the introduction of equal pay. Whilst agreeing with the principle of equal pay for equal work, we cannot turn our backs upon its economic consequences. It cannot be disputed that the largest areas of unemployment at the present time are with youth and with women. About 55 per cent of our unemployed, as I have said, are aged between 15 years and 24 years. This percentage is one of the highest percentages of the OECD countries for that age group, yet we are below average in terms of the total percentage of unemployed. 
Since 1965-66 real minimum wages and other labour costs of employing males have increased by 44 per cent. The cost of employing a female in a similar job has risen by 86 per cent. The largest yearly real wage and labour cost increase occurred in 1973-74. It is my belief, and many economists will agree with me, that the rapid increase in real wages is the major cause of our large number of unemployed today. In mid- 1974 unemployment started to escalate dramatically, aided by the encouragement of higher wages by the then Labor Government. 
Unemployment among females can be shown by comparing employment figures of February 1974 with those of" February 1977. In manufacturing industry employment of males fell by 8.6 per cent, yet the employment of females during the same period fell by 1 9.5 per cent, more than double that of males. It is clear that the Government has a responsibility to aid these problem areas specifically. The Government has clearly recognised the need to tackle these problems. I commend the Government for this approach. The basis of the Government's policy is to redress the structural imbalance noticeable in recent years, firstly by encouraging wage restraint and, secondly, by introducing specific schemes that directly reduce labour costs. 
I refer specifically to the Government's Special Youth Employment Training Program and the Commonwealth Rebate for Apprenticeship Fulltime Training scheme. Under the Government's Special Youth Employment Training Program employers are paid a subsidy of $63 a week to provide on-the-job training for young people who have been unemployed for at least 6 months. The most pleasing aspect of this scheme is that an estimated 70 per cent of young people given employment under the scheme have found permanent jobs on the completion of their six months' training period. This high percentage clearly shows the success of the scheme and proves that this scheme is far more than a temporary band-aid measure. One should stress also that this scheme need not even be expensive. It has been estimated that up to 80 per cent of outlays on such a scheme will be recouped by savings on unemployment benefits and increased income tax receipts. Experience in other countries where similar schemes have operated has proved this correct- such as in Britain where similar schemes are more than 80 per cent selffinancing. 
In the Budget, the Treasurer stated that, all told, $i03m- 33 per cent more than last yearwould be spent on employment training schemes. The Government has earmarked $ 1 8m for the special youth training program this year and the Treasurer has stated that if more funds are required they will be found. Whilst I commend the Government for introducing the youth training scheme and for the $I8m which the Government has earmarked for this scheme this year, a little arithmetic shows that $ 1 8m will subsidise not many more than 12,000 jobs. 
As 55 per cent or approximately 250,000 of our unemployed fall within the age group covered by this scheme- that is the ages between 15 and 25 years- as this scheme is 80 per cent self-financing, and as approximately 70 per cent of these young people find permanent employment at the conclusion of the subsidy period, I urge the Government to allocate more funds to this program as soon as practicable. Thousands of young people under 25 years of age are expected to apply immediately for governmentsponsored training under this scheme and I would like to see it utilised to the capacity of industry to cope. This scheme has helped about 15,000 teenagers in its first 10 months of operation and I would not like to see anyone turned away because of shortage of funds. Lack of work experience is often the problem met by young people in trying to find a permanent place in the work force. This program has been designed not only to give young people the chance to learn specific skills but also to give them work experience in the area of those skills. 
The National Employment and Training scheme has been allocated $54.3m for 1977-78, an increase of $22. 7m over the previous year. NEAT provides full or part time training allowances, living away from home, book and equipment allowances, and assistance with payment of fees and fares for trainees. The increased allocation in these programs is a positive step forward by the Government in the fight against unemployment. 
One of the paradoxes of the unemployment situation is that in some areas there is a shortage of workers, particularly in skilled trades. The major reason for this has been the increased cost of taking on apprentices. This has, in the past, made it unprofitable for employers to train the number of apprentices which they had done in previous years. The Government has once again recognised the cause of the problem and sought to alleviate it. It has done this by the introduction of the Commonwealth Rebate for Apprentice Full-time Training scheme, known as the CRAFT scheme. This scheme provides rebates to employers in respect of all apprentices released to attend technical colleges for compulsory full time basic trade training. Rebates are also payable in respect of apprentices undertaking approved full time on-the-job training and these rebates are free of Commonwealth taxation. 
Unemployment is a problem which is not confined to Australia. However, there is no doubt that the policies and mismanagement of the previous Whitlam Labor Government contributed considerably to Australia's present unemployment problems. Increases in wages, which the Whitlam Government encouraged, have meant that employers have been reluctant to take on additional staff or to replace staff. In a survey by the Australian Chamber of Commerce and the National Bank a significant proportion- 32 per cent of companies- said that wage increases had caused a moderate reduction, and a small group- of 6 per cent- said that they had resulted in a substantial reduction in the number of people employed by their companies. 
The mismanagement of the economy by the Labor Government which allowed inflation to rise from 4.5 per cent to 1 6 per cent and the rapid expansion of the public sector of the economy at the expense of the private sector set the scene for the present level of unemployment. This Government believes that in order to bring inflation and unemployment under control, sound responsible management of the economy is necessary. There are signs that the Government's economic policies are taking effect. The 2.4 per cent rise in the consumer price index for the June quarter and the increase in industrial production are encouraging signs. The Government has continually urged wage restraint as important if the unemployment figure is to be brought down. 
As the Leader of the Opposition said when he was in government, unemployment is a problem not confined to Australia. No one would deny that the need to combat unemployment is urgent, not only because of the short term effects, but also because of the long term effects on the individual and on society. The Government is tackling both inflation and unemployment in this Budget. The two are intertwined. If we can improve Australia's economic outlook and continue to reduce inflation there is no doubt unemployment will decrease. I believe the Government's policies are sound and given time to prove themselves will return Australia to the prosperous nation which it was under previous Liberal National Country Party governments. 
-1 remind the honourable member for Griffith that he is not sitting in his right place. Interjections are out of order and he had better not do so even from his own seat. 
What about the family allowance? The Government made so much noise about what it intended to do for families in 1976. It said that it would replace the tax concession for children so that all wives could receive this great family allowance. Every other tax concession has been indexed but the family allowance has not. What does  Mrs Joan  Adamson,  President  of the Women's Action Alliance, have to say on this subject? She said that by this move alone the Government was robbing two-child families of $50 a year, three-child families of $100 a year, and four-child families of $ 1 44 a year. That is the matter in relation to which honourable members opposite made so much noise in 1976. 1 thank the honourable member for raising the matter and for reminding us of these things. This is the matter in relation to which honourable members opposite expressed such concern during 1976 and 1977. 

 Government supporters interjecting- 

-Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented. 

Order! I suggest that all remarks be directed to the Chair and channelled through the Chair. I do not think that this cross-fire across the chamber should be tolerated. 

 Mr Innes- I have done so. My point of order is that the honourable member for Braddon is interjecting from out of his seat. 
At least I try to be frank about this matter. I suggest that none of us is yet facing up to the reality of the totality of the unemployment situation in Australia, but I think that we are being rather silly at the moment if we do not believe that the situation would be improved if we were prepared to spend more in real terms on what is often described by the use of a rather hackneyed phrase as public works. Surely this is what we are about now. What has been given by these socalled beneficial grants is less in real terms this year than was the case in the previous year and it was less in real terms the year before. Surely that means that we are getting less in the way of hospitals, schools, community facilities and the like. I suggest that anybody who says that to try to match the people out of work with the unfilled social needs would be inflationary needs a little brainwashing. 
I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Was the Military Attache at the Indian High Commission, Colonel Iqbal Singh, abducted last night? If so, what action does the Government contemplate taking to prevent similar incidents occurring in the future? 
-I uphold the point of order. I have warned the honourable member for Burke that he has been getting too far away from the contents of the Bill before the House. I ask him to stick to the Bill. At the beginning of his speech, when he was criticising the previous  speaker,  he pointed out that we were not facing an election in Victoria. I think the same remark could apply to him. I suggest that he keep within the confines of the Bill. 
I refer now to an area that was touched on by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren).  We are talking about funds for the States. He mentioned the discontinuation of the sewerage program. I notice that the honourable member for Diamond Valley is smiling. I think there are more unsewered houses in his electorate than in almost any other electorate. I do not know how he dares to go home and face his electorate and tell the people there that there are no funds available this year for sewerage programs. I received a letter from the Commissioner of the city of Keilor,  Mr Kevin  Holland. He wrote to me as he is the sole representative in that area who has been appointed by the Liberal Government in Victoria. He has the sole responsibility for managing that very large municipality. He complained to me in the most bitter terms that there will be no Australian Government funds coming to that municipality to enable the Board of Works to extend the sewerage program, and so the people who live in that municipality will not have the opportunity to press a button instead of having somebody come round to the back door in the middle of the night. It is true that there is a large area of Melbourne still unsewered. It is true that there is a large number of septic tanks. It is also true that Port Phillip Bay is probably the largest septic tank in the world. 
We have adopted this so-called new federalism, this chicanery offered to the people of Australia but not believed by them I might add, under which the Australian Government will make some funds available to the poor old States who will have to pick up the tab. Nobody has ever explained to me why this is so or how the States can raise their funds equitably. It is obvious to every thinking Australian including those who sit on the other side of this chamber that the most equitable way in which to raise finance is through the Australian Government which can reach into the people's pockets depending on the depth of them rather than charge people left, right and centre. I make no apology for any taxes that the Labor Government levied on people. I was in local government for 1 1 years before coming to this place and never stood on a cheap rates platform. I have never gone out to pretend to the people about what I am offering or to treat them to untruths. I would not do it in a Federal election either. 
Anybody who goes out to the people and says that he will give them a cheap tax program is pandering to the top wage earners but certainly not to the middle class because they are not better off now. I will give honourable members opposite a political lesson, but certainly not you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  because I do not wish to be offensive to the Chair, it being apolitical. If honourable members opposite tell the middle class people that they will reduce their taxes, the people will laugh at them and walk away because that is the class of people who demand more of government than any other class in this country. They know better than the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Sainsbury)  who made an erudite exposition to this House tonight that the taxpayer pays. I would never tell people that I would reduce taxes. What I would say is that they will get fair value for their taxes which will be raised according to their capacity to pay rather than by way of State taxes because State taxes are most inequitable- as inequitable as rates raised by local government which are just a flat property tax across the board. I notice the honourable member for Diamond Valley nodding his head again. I hope that he is not going to sleep but is agreeing with me. 
I support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford).  It is obvious that if this BUI is passed, and I suppose by some intuitive process that it will be, it will reduce the funds available to the States in real terms and increase the States' borrowing costs. Surely the cost of servicing debts must be one of the greatest worries of State governments and instrumentalities. It forces the States to reduce the services they provide and/or to impose additional taxes and charges. It leads also to increased unemployment. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  now realises his mistake because the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  had to tell him yesterday that he has been making a virtue of cutting back on staff. He is trying to impress this virtue upon the State governments but those governments which have intelligent Premiers- New South Wales, South Australia and Tasmania-will not wear it. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question, which is directed to the Prime Minister, is supplementary to an earlier question asked about the use of VIP aircraft I ask my question reluctantly but in all fairness. Can the Prime Minister provide the House with any information relating to the use of VIP aircraft during the term of office of the Labor Government? 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The document read as follows- 


<graphic href="106131197710042_41_3.jpg"></graphic>

I take the point made by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports that public accounting is different from private accounting. That is true, but if one is dunking of any normal type of public accounting one must look, as he said, at the overall figures and at the economy as a whole. What has happened is this: In the Australian economy people make individually the decision to save and to put aside some part of their current income. This is a decision which they make personally, and the aggregate of those savings is taken away from their current consumption. That means that their current consumption falls and we have to find a way of using those savings in capital works whether they be private or government, because if we do not we will have unemployment. In point of fact there is unemployment in the Western world and in Australia today because of this excess of unused savings. Our Australian unemployment is simply the smell of unused savings going rancid. That is all it is. 
Any government which looked at the overall economy would find a reason and a compelling necessity to borrow on the local market because this is the way of absorbing the private savings which are at the present moment unused, going into the banking system, being mucked about by the Treasurer and the Reserve Bank and generally being taken out of circulation. These rancid unused savings are in point of fact the cause of the unemployment which we see today. 
I am looking at the economy as a whole and looking at the overall picture as the honourable member for Melbourne Ports told us we should do. I am afraid- and I say this with all respectthat my friend from Melbourne Ports was brainwashed too much by the Treasury officials when he was Treasurer. I think our present Treasurer is suffering in the same way. What I say against our present Budget I would say against the kind of Labor concept which the honourable member who has just spoken- a former Labor Treasurer- brought forward. Although he thinks he is looking at the situation as a whole, in point of fact he is not doing so. Apparently he does not realise that, if we used these savings more effectively, we would not have unemployment because unemployment is simply the aggregate of excess personal savings. This is a very simple proposition, but it is true. 
Of course, there is the double effect. What one withdraws from consumption not only reduces the actual consumption of the day but also reduces the propensity to invest because investment is made for consumption. This gearing is quite important in the whole of the economic process. So I say that we have to look at this matter as a whole. It is quite right for the Government to borrow these excess savings because this is how to get the economy going again. It is no use just taking the savings by way of taxation. If we take them in this way all we do is cut down the aggregate of demand because what people pay out in tax they do not spend themselves on some item of consumption. Their saving is made from the residue after the tax has been paid. 
These are very, very simple propositions but I regard them as essential propositions because they are the ones on which the whole economy of the Western world is foundering. The Treasurer is quite right when he says: 'I am only doing what overseas financiers tell me should be done'. But overseas financiers themselves have not done it to the same extent that our Treasurer has done it here. Overseas financiers are now having second thoughts and they are talking about reflation in Europe and America. 
They now see that the measures they have been taking, the measures which they have wished on our unhappy Treasurer- our unhappy and uncomprehending Treasurer without an understanding of what it is all about who has applied them much more fiercely than they have been applied in Europe- are wrong. They are reversing them in the hope of checking the stagnation which is present in the economy of the whole of the Western world in the same way as it is blighting our economy. 
So I regard this as a matter of major consequence. It is not, of course, that what is done in Australia will change the history of the world. Of course this will not be the case. We are a little people and our influence is minor. But at least here in our small way let us abjure the economic sins of the financiers overseas. While the 
Treasurer is quite right when he says that he is taking the advice of overseas bankers he is wrong in taking that advice. 
I cannot say too strongly that this is a major matter. Unless we do what I suggest, we will turn the Western world and Australia as part of it into the abyss of socialism and communism. This is why the free enterprise system is not being allowed to work. I believe it is essential that we should allow the free enterprise system to work, end this stagnation and get things going again. 
Let me return to the Bill in front of us and speak about the money that is to be borrowed. I do not think the Bill states whether the money is to be borrowed locally or overseas. But this money may well form part of the loans which the Government is now saying it will raise overseas. I address my mind for a moment to the question of overseas loans. 
A country has a balance annually of what is known as its current account. That balance involves crediting the exports and debiting the imports, crediting overseas earnings and debiting overseas payments. There are two componentsthe visibles and the invisibles. But put them together and they are the country's current account for the year. 
For the year ended 1976-77 we had a negative balance on current account. We went into the red by $1.9 billion. If we look at the figures to see how they are shaping up we find that this year we are to go into the red for $3.5 billion or more unless something is done. The figures are quite inexorable when one looks at their trend because we must remember that our overseas debit on current account last year was piled up under circumstances where there was stagnation in Australia and consumption and investment were low. Any recovery here will mean a bigger overseas deficit unless something is done. 
We have to remember that company profits, including the profits of overseas companies are increasing. They are not Australian profits but belong to someone else. We also have to remember that when the Government borrows $2,000m extra or $3,000m extra it will be up for another couple of hundred million dollars in interest. All of these factors have to be taken into account. 
I would say, looking ahead, that something has to be done. We can poultice the situation by means of foreign investment. But foreign investment has to be paid for in the end. Our negative balance- about half our deficit on invisibles; something like a $1.5 billion deficit on invisibles- is due to profits which have to be paid to firms which have come over and invested in Australia. They have been earning profits in Australia. If we encourage more foreign investment, we have to pay more. So private investment is not the answer to this. Public investment, that is borrowing $2,000m overseas, is a temporary means of staunching the outflow. Probably it is a better means than encouraging too much private investment but it still has to be paid for and one can think of it only as a temporary expedient. 
Now, there are two alternatives in front of us. We can improve the balance of visible trade by increasing exports or decreasing imports. 
How are we to increase our exports in the near future? We have no uranium available, unhappily. There is not much market for extra coal, iron ore, copper or tin. There is not much additional market for wool. There is not much market for wheat; there is almost a market for a little additional meat. What about sugar? Well, ask the captains of the ships going around Yokohama Bay. We cannot increase exports over the short term. There is no reasonable expectation of being able to do that. 
We can cut our imports and this is the time for a drastic cut in imports which will enable us to employ locally and by getting throughput up we will be able to decrease the unit cost of local production. This is the time, overdue now, for a drastic cut in imports otherwise another $1.5 billion from our current account is going down the drain this year. Added to the $1.9 billion that went down the drain last year, say $3.4 or $3.5 billion for 1977-78. Unless something is done quickly the downward trend will steepen. So we can cut imports and perhaps we can increase exports a little. Perhaps we can think of a differential tax on foreign private investment in Australia. That would be a very drastic thing but it is possible. It certainly is conceivable. But something has to be done. We cannot allow this drift to disaster to continue. 
I come back to this $1.1 billion which perhaps is part of our overseas borrowing. It is not a panacea but it is a band-aid performance which will help us over the short term. Over the short term probably it is the right thing to do but over the long term it is not good enough. Let us face up to reality. I accept absolutely the point made by my friend the honourable member for Melbourne Ports that we should look at the Australian economy as a whole. 
-Is leave granted? 
While the Treasurer was overseas, particularly while he was attending top level discussions at the International Monetary Fund in Washington, was he able to gauge international reaction to certain public statements made in Australia speculating upon the strength and standing of the Australian dollar and the possibility of a further devaluation of the Australian dollar? 
-In the period since this Government came to office it has introduced many reforms, especially in the field of taxation. There is, however, one aspect of taxation which I wish to raise tonight in which the Australian government has not taken what I believe would be a just initiative. I refer specifically to the area of estate duties. The first Act introduced in Australia to collect death duties was the Victorian Probate Act of 1870. This Act and the Acts which followed were designed to ensure that a privileged few could not accumulate wealth. The death duty Acts were attempts to redistribute unearned wealth. Today, over a century later, I would submit that they have not achieved the intended result. They have led instead to some members of society engaging professional estate planners in an attempt to ensure that estate duty is kept to a minimum or completely avoided. 
Estate duty, rather than achieve a positive result, affects most those who can least afford to pay a lump sum payment. In many cases it comes at a time of emotional crisis and adds further to the burden of those who have lost a loved one. We all know that governments must obtain revenue from some source, and it is true that Federal estate duty contributes to this revenue. In the year 1976-77, Federal estate duty receipts were $76m. The total receipts from all sources of taxation, however were $ 19,497m. As a percentage of overall income, estate duty is comparatively small, and the hardship imposed is in many cases great. Abolition of estate duties would, I submit, be a further step by the Government in bringing equity into the taxation system. Estate duty can mean hardship for widows, especially those who have stayed at home to care for their families. It can mean they have to sell a family home or live at a reduced standard of living. Husband and wife can work together for many years to buy a home to raise a family, and then find their thrift and hard work penalises the remaining one. Estate duty can also have a very severe effect on those who run small businesses, and those on the land. The effect on those on the land especially is made far worse by inflation and increased property values. 
Until recently both State and Federal governments have levied death duties. The States, however, are generally realising that these duties, which are expensive to collect, create delays in administering estates, are unequal in their operation, and impose hardship on those least able to cope with estate duty. In my own State of Victoria, the State government has as its policy abolition of probate duty as soon as possible. The Government has abolished probate duty on all property passing to one spouse on the death of the other. In this year's Victorian Budget, it was announced that as from 1 January 1978, duty would be abolished on property passing to the children of the deceased. In Queensland the Succession and Gift Duties Abolition Act 1976 abolishes succession duty as from 1 January 1977. 
In Western Australia the Government is committed to ending death duties on estates of people who die after July 1, 1980. In that State legislation has already been passed to abolish death duty on all property passing to a surviving spouse. The South Australian Government has abolished duty on any property derived from a deceased person by his spouse. There have also been concessions made to unmarried brothers and sisters who share a home. In New South Wales no duty is payable by a surviving spouse where the deceased died domiciled in New South Wales on or after 1 December 1976. In Tasmania estates passing from husband to wife which are valued at below $1 13,000 are exempt from duty and real estate bought in Tasmania is free of death duties. 
The State governments are gradually moving toward abolition of estate duties, and it will be unfair if the Federal government benefits from these moves which are designed to assist taxpayers. Estate duty will no longer be a debt in the estate for the purpose of assessment of Federal duty, which could increase in a number of States. Federal estate duty does not achieve a levelling effect. It affects many who can ill afford this added hardship and this Government would have taken a further important step in establishing an equitable taxation system if it abolished Federal estate duty. 
-. Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="107131197710132_21_0.jpg"></graphic>

-To which reflection - 
The Government, the Minister for Social Security and the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs stand condemned for their absolute disinterest in migrant welfare and services. They reflect the philosophy of their party. The disgraceful conditions in welfare matters and the inexcusable destruction of the migrant English classes are condemnatory evidence of their neglect. The reduction and deferment of services to migrants and the procrastination by the Government will be remembered by migrants who will help to get rid of this Government at the earliest possible time. 
Sitting suspended from 1.1 to 2.15 p.m. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
That the following Tariff proposals, constituting part order of the day No. 28, Government business, be discharged: 
Customs Tariff(Coal Export Duty) Proposals ( 1 977 ). 
Excise TariffProposals Nos. 1 and 2 ( 1977). 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The document read as follows- 


<graphic href="107131197710180_13_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="107131197710180_14_1.jpg"></graphic>

Perhaps the House should note that when a committee of this House inquiring into learning difficulties commissioned a report from the Australian Council of Educational Research that report made some very interesting findings. One of them was that learning difficulty in areas of reading, writing and numeracy, admittedly at a fairly basic and elementary level, was lower in the Catholic, systemic schools than it was in the government schools. One might ask why. Those schools had fewer resources. They were poorer schools. If we are to differentiate on the basis of richness and poorness, whatever that means, these schools with fewer resources would probably be judged to be poorer. Yet they were managing to impart basic skills to pupils at a level at which the pupils achieved somewhat more than did pupils in the better endowed government funded school system. 
So we need to ask ourselves why. We do not know why. There might be many reasons. Maybe the government schools were not doing some other things as well. That is quite possible. That is an argument that is put to me almost ad nauseam by teachers in the government school system. The difference might be due to the tender loving care of the type of teacher- many of them were attached to religious orders- who were attracted to those schools. We do not know what the reason was. The important thing in this debate is that we know that those schools were achieving different and better results and that if we do not have an education system that is varied we will never have the opportunity to identify the different and the better. 
Yet in recent years the gap in funding and resources between the private sector and the entirely government funded sector has been getting wider. Is that a good thing? Are the parents of those children who attend private schools not entitled to a contribution from the public purse similar to that received by the parents of children attending government schools? After all they are taxed on the same basis, their children have the same needs and some of those private and independent schools are showing us things that we need to learn that will benefit all children, including those in the government schools. The guidelines that the Government put down were in line with its long announced policy that at least 20 per cent of the cost of educating a child in any school system should be provided from the public purse. We requested that the State governments match that with a further 20 per cent- a mere 40 per cent in all. Some children have the cost of their entire education met from the taxpayers' dollar. I submit that the guidelines were singularly appropriate. 
-The discussion is concluded. 
-I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security. Has the Minister noted that the Salvation Army and other voluntary agencies in Victoria  which have been providing emergency aid to families of people out of work because of the power strike have depleted their funds? Is the Minister able to give any assistance to voluntary agencies to provide emergency funds? 
-Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
MrYOUNG-No.no. 

 Mr HODGMAN (Denison)-I claim to have been misrepresented by the honourable member for Port Adelaide who claimed a few minutes ago in this chamber that I once said that the people of Hobart were drunks and no hopers 

 Mr YOUNG (Port Adelaide)-Mr  Deputy Speaker,  I apologise for using the term 'drunks and no hopers'. When the honourable member for Denison attacked the people of Hobart he said: 'Every drunk and deadbeat in Hobart'. On that occasion I took objection to the way in which he abused the people of Hobart. Again I take objection to the accusation that people on this side of the House have no feeling for the people of Tasmania. Many of us visit Tasmania. 
-Is the amendment seconded? 
Debate interrupted. 
-Is the amendment seconded? 
It gives me great pleasure to rise in this Address-in-Reply debate to the Governor-General's Speech, a Speech to which we all listened with great interest yesterday in the Senate chamber. I take this opportunity to congratulate our two new members, the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Carlton)  and the honourable member for Tangney  (Mr Shack)  who have made their maiden speeches in moving and seconding the motion in respect to the Address-in-Reply. It is always an important time in the life of any member and both honourable gentlemen have acquitted themselves well today. I wish also to congratulate the  Speaker,  the right honourable member for Bruce  (Sir Billy Snedden),  on his reelection to his high office and on the knighthood which has been bestowed on him by  Her  Majesty, Queen Elizabeth II. Billy Snedden entered this Parliament some 23 years ago as a young man; he was in his twenties.  His  service to his fellow Australians and to this Parliament has been distinguished. Both his knighthood and his re-election as  Speaker  are well deserved honours. I also congratulate you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  on becoming the  Chairman  of Committees. As a  Deputy Chairman  of Committees I look forward to working closely with you in the coming parliamentary session. Congratulations also are in order to the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  who has been elected by his Party, the Australian Labor Party, to fulfil the role of Leader of  Her  Majesty's Opposition. I wish him a long tenure in that post. 
In referring to the new Leader of the Opposition, one cannot but mention his predecessor, the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr E. G. Whitlam).  In the eleven or so years that I have been a member of this House, Gough Whitlam always has been leader of his Party. It seems strange to me, as it no doubt does to others, to see him sitting on a back bench. As one who supported governments that preceded his and who supported the Government which replaced his Government, I cannot but pay tribute to him and to the role he has played in this Parliament and, indeed, in Australia. It was said of Caesar by Shakespeare's Mark Antony: 
The evil that men do lives after them, The good is oft interred with their bones. 
I am not suggesting that the honourable member for Werriwa did any evil. But the point I wish to make is that - 
People are inclined to see and remember only the wrong men do or the mistakes men make in public office and to forget the good that they have done. I in no way wish to equate the honourable member for Werriwa with Caesar. But it is worth noting in passing that Caesar was knifed in the back; Gough Whitlam stood down as leader of his own free will and with what I believe to be considerable grace following the defeat of his Party at the recent election. I am one of many honourable members on this side of the House who have criticised many of the policies which he and his Government expounded. But one would be less than fair if one did not say also that there were many good initiatives and innovations which he brought into effect which will be for the lasting good of Australia. He has been a man of considerable stature and I believe that this Parliament has been a better place for his membership of it. I sincerely hope that this present move does not mark the beginning of a premature retirement. I am assured by the honourable member for 
Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  that this is not so. Gough Whitlam still has a great deal to contribute to this nation. I hope that a position which will make use of his considerable abilities and talents will come along in the not too distant future. 
However, the greatest congratulations of all must go to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  In 1975 Malcolm Fraser led the coalition Parties into the greatest victory of any government since Federation. After two years in office he then led our Parties to the second greatest victory of any government since Federation. That is some achievement. But the career of Malcolm Fraser has been one of considerable achievement. This is true also of the first Fraser Government. 
When our Government first took office in December 1975, we inherited an economy which was in considerable disarray. At that time inflation was running at 17 per cent and unemployment at 5 per cent of the work force. One of the first announcements of Prime Minister Fraser was that the curing of Australia's economic ills would have top priority with his Government and that it saw the reduction of the inflation rate as a major factor in achieving this. Due to the Government's policies, inflation now has been reduced in two years from 1 7 per cent to 9 per cent and there is evidence to support the belief that inflation will fall further by the end of the financial year. In addition, interest rates have begun to fall and should fall further during the coming year. 
A major problem still facing the Government is a reduction in the rate of unemployment which has been boosted to around 6 per cent as school leavers have entered the work force. An unemployment figure of this dimension in the past has been quite foreign to Australia, apart from during the Depression of the 1 930s, although it is accepted as the norm in some other Western democracies. Unemployment is not only an economic problem; it is also a very human problem. I was glad to hear the Governor-General state in his Speech yesterday that one of the Government's top priorities would be to build on the progress made in the last two years, to defeat inflation and unemployment and to restore full economic health to the nation. The policy of the Government to place a high priority on employment and training schemes, particularly those which increase the skills of young people to enable them to take job opportunities as they arise, is to be applauded. 
In his policy speech before the last electionthis was confirmed by the Governor-General in his address yesterday- the Prime Minister promised that within the course of the next three years local government's share of personal income tax receipts would be increased from 1.52 per cent to 2 per cent. I am delighted that this is to occur and it is a policy I have advocated for some time. However, I am sorry that it will take three years before the figure of 2 per cent is finally reached. I am sure that councils in the municipalities of Nunawading and Ringwood and the ever expanding city of Knox- cities covered by the electorate of Deakin- will agree with me in that regard. In fact, I know that they will. I have always believed that there are many functions which should be performed at the local level rather than from Spring Street in Melbourne or Canberra in the Australian Capital Territory. But the limiting factor on councils has always been lack of finance and there is a limit to how much rate payers can be taxed. I realise that the Government has provided substantial increases in general purpose assistance for local government since it came to office two years ago. This must not be forgotten. An amount of $ 140m was provided in 1976-77, an increase of 75 per cent over the amount provided in 1975-76 when the Whitlam Government was in office and that $ 165.3m was provided in 1977-78, representing a further increase of 1 8 per cent over the amount provided in 1976-77. The proposed increase over the next three years in local government's entitlement to two per cent of net personal income tax collections will further assist local councils to meet their commitments to their residents. But I urge the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  and the Government to make every effort to achieve this figure at an earlier date if possible. 
I now turn to another matter. On 12 October last year I made a speech during the adjournment debate in this House advocating the abolition of probate. I would not be so bold as to claim the credit for this Government initiative which the Prime Minister announced in his policy speech. But I would like to think that perhaps he heard my speech and it gave him an idea. In this speech which is recorded at page 1943 of the House of Representatives  Hansard  of 12 October 1977 1 stated that I believed the abolition of probate would be a just initiative and would be a further step by the Government to bring equity into the taxation system. I pointed out that in the year 1976-77 federal estate duty receipts amounted to $76m. The total receipts from all sources of taxation however amounted to $ 19,497m. As a percentage of overall income, estate duty therefore represents a comparatively small amount. But the hardship imposed by estate duty is in many cases great. Husband and wife can work together for many years to buy a home and raise a family. But we find that such thrift and hard work penalise the surviving spouse following the death of the other spouse. Those people with small businesses and those on the land are particularly affected. Estate duties are expensive to collect, create delays in administering estates, are unequal in their operation and impose hardship on those least able to cope with estate duty. It is a bad tax. 
I finished my speech on that occasion by saying that the Government would have taken a further important step in establishing an equitable taxation system if it abolished Federal estate duty. The Government has now taken the first step in this regard by its decision to abolish Commonwealth estate duty on property pasing to a spouse or parent or child of a deceased, and that abolition will be retrospective to 21 November 1977 when the Prime Minister first announced the decision. In addition, no gift duty will be payable on property given on or after that date by a person, his or her spouse or child or parent. The legislation will also provide that estate duty will be abolished altogether in relation to all property in the estates of all persons who die on or after 1 July 1979. Likewise, no gift duty will be payable in respect of any gifts of property made on or after that date.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I applaud that decision. 
I was disappointed that there was no reference in the Governor-General's Speech to an increase in immigration. In the late 1960s Australia was absorbing approximately 180,000 newcomers to this country per year. They made a considerable contribution to our development, to our growth and indeed to our whole way of life. The Whitlam Government cut immigration to 30,000 people per year when it became apparent that unemployment in Australia was approaching 5 per cent of the work force. When departures from Australia were taken into account, this reduced immigration figure resulted in a net loss to Australia of between 5,000 and 8,000 people per annum. It is my belief and it is the belief of many informed people that immigrants, rather than increasing unemployment, actually stimulate demand and hence employment. A statement in the Melbourne  Sun  yesterday by  Mr Ian  Spicer, the Secretary of the Victorian Employers Federation, is worthy of note. The report read: 'Unemployment could be cut by stepping up immigration rather than cutting it back',  Mr Ian  Spicer said yesterday. 'Most unemployed people were unskilled or semi-skilled. But for every skilled worker employed, jobs would be created for at least four semi-skilled or unskilled workers. 
Consequently migrants coming into Australia, who are especially selected to meet the skills that our society needs, could be the first step towards reducing our level of unemployment, ' he said. 
The report went on: 
In Canberra yesterday, the Immigration Minister,  Mr MacKellar,  said that any cuts in migrant intake would retard economic recovery. Skilled workers were needed for jobs which could not be filled by unemployed Australians, he said. 
When it came into office in 1975 the Government increased immigration from the 30,000 of the Whitlam Government to 70,000. I suggest that there is no evidence to show that that increase adversely affected employment in Australia. If Australia ceases to grow in both productivity and population it will stagnate. Our progress and increase in living standards will slow down. This must not be allowed to occur. I believe that immigration must be stepped up in the not too distant future. 
The Governor-General also stated in his Speech that international air fares to Australia are to be reviewed and, hopefully, reduced. This is a wise move. Australia is at the end of the line as far as air fares are concerned. Cheaper fares mean more tourists. More tourists will help Australia's balance of payments. The GovernorGeneral also stated that in a further effort to boost Australia's trade balance the Government would embark on a program to increase exports and that increased access to overseas markets would be actively sought. I approve of such action. It is in great contrast to some actions of the Labor Party when in office. 
During the recess I travelled via South Africa as part of a fact finding mission which took me to Europe and the United States of America. In South Africa I was informed by Australian officials and businessmen, who were in a position to know, that Australian officials had been informed by the Labor Government that no efforts were to be made to step up trade with South Africa and that no encouragement was to be given to Australian businessmen wishing to trade with South Africa because of its apartheid policies. I am on record in this House as having said that I do not believe that apartheid is the answer to South Africa's racial problems, but it is sheer lunacy to damage Australia's export trade to that country because of its internal policies. We are only biting off our nose to spite our face. We are only damaging Australia. 
Originally there were two Qantas Airways Ltd and two South African Airways flights per week between Australia and South Africa. No doubt partially due to the reduction in trade between the two countries, these were reduced to one 
Qantas and one South African Airways flight per week. Now only one South African Airways flight operates the route and Australia, through its airline, now loses out on what was at one time a very profitable flight path. The first interest of any government must be the welfare of its own people. I hope that in the future this Government will boost our exports to any country which wishes to trade with Australia, whether it practices apartheid, whether it is a communist country or anything else. 
There were many other admirable initiatives announced in the Governor-General's Speech. Time does not permit me to go into them as fully as I would like. No doubt other honourable members on the Government side will do so. The program outlined by the Governor-General is an excellent one. I look forward to a period of stability of government in Australia in the next three years which will enable our Government to carry out its initiatives to the benefit of all who live in this great country of ours. 
Is the Minister for Trade and Resources aware of a statement made by  Sir Frederick  Catherwood the  Chairman  of the British Overseas Board of Trade, that Australia is one of the very few advanced countries which rely on protection to defend their industries and that that has weakened Australia's international trading position? Does  Sir Frederick  Catherwood 's statement accurately reflect the relative degrees of protection in Australia and the European Economic Community? 
-The time allotted for General Business to take precedence has expired. The honourable member for Holt  (Mr Yates)  will have leave to continue his speech when the debate is resumed. The resumption of the debate will be made an order of the day under General Business for the next day of sitting. 
-The Australian Government believes firmly in the policy of federalism. We believe that the daily lives of 14 million Australians should not be directed by one vast bureaucratic centralised body in Canberra. There are three levels of government in Australia- federal, State and local- and each has a role to play. Obviously there are many areas, such as the economy and social services, which need administration at federal level. However, local government is the most appropriate level for many other needs. In order that these needs may be fulfilled the Fraser Government has legislated to provide local government with a guaranteed percentage of personal income tax. This share will be increased from 1.52 per cent to 2 per cent during the life of this Parliament. In 1976-77 local government's share was $ 140m, a 75 per cent increase on the $79.9m provided by the Whitlam Labor Government for the year 1975-76. I commend the increase in the local government share of personal income tax to 2 per cent during the life of this Parliament but urge the Government to introduce this reform as soon as possible. 
In other areas positive steps have been taken towards full implementation of the federalism policy. Local government grants commissions have been set up in all States. There is local government representation on the Advisory Council for Inter-Government Relations. Federalism is based on the idea that consultation and co-operation will overcome many of the problems which confront all levels of government. Tonight I urge the Government to take a further step towards enabling local government to play a more active role in the management of this country. Local government is that branch of government which is closest to the needs and aspirations of the majority of Australians. It will be able to satisfy these needs and aspirations only if its representatives come from a wide crosssection of the community. Under section 74 of the Income Tax Assessment Act candidates for State and Federal elections can claim election campaign expenses as allowable deductions for income tax purposes. I believe that the Government should amend this section of the Act to extend this deduction to candidates for local government. 
Such a concession would be a further step towards fulfilling the Government's federalism policy. I am glad to hear the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier)  agreeing with me. All individuals who have a contribution to make must be free to participate fully in government and the forms of government must be decentralised to permit maximum response and involvement. Government must be brought as close as possible to the people. It is not sufficient to provide an increase in funds; we must also increase the status of local government. In my State of Victoria at present hardworking councillors are not even recompensed for out of pocket expenses, such as the cost of running their cars or the cost of telephone calls made because of council business. The cost of running a campaign must also deter many people, who would otherwise be able to make a positive contribution to local government, from standing for election. 
I am not saying that those in local government at present are not doing a good job. Financially unrewarding though it may be, it is undoubtedly rewarding in work satisfaction. However, there are many people who, if given the opportunity, have experience which would benefit their communities and the country at large but who cannot afford the out-of-pocket expenses and the cost of running an election campaign. We must all continue to re-evaluate our ideas and to ensure that governments at every level are aware of the needs and views of Australians and that the community has the best possible representatives. It is only if all people have an equal opportunity to take part in government at whatever level they choose that we will be putting into practice the full ideals of federalism. I urge the Government as part of the next Budget, if not sooner, to legislate to make tax deductible campaign expenses incurred by candidates for local government, just as they are for candidates who stand for election to federal and State parliaments. To say the least, this would be only fair and just. 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister. Is it true that higher growth in the world economy is a vital factor in achieving increased employment and better living standards not only in Australia but throughout the world? Would the benefits of such growth be dissipated if our present anti-inflationary policies were altered or relaxed? Are certain statements, suggesting that Australia is heading towards a recession if the present Government's economic policies are pursued, exaggerated and incorrect? 
-That is not a point of order. 
The previous speakers tended to speak very much about the specifics of the problems that face us. They spoke about the specific changes to be brought about in the tax law. The honourable member for Barton  (Mr Bradfield)  who spoke this morning was able to enunciate some of the details of the tax avoidance schemes. I understand that he has been an accountant. It is good that people should hear or read in  Hansard  about the ways in which people are able to contrive schemes within the tax law in such a way as to load the burden on to other people. That is the net effect of any tax avoidance scheme. It loads the burden on to somebody else. We know that, whilst the law needs to be upheld by the Government, the sense of the law is often not upheld by people who enter into such schemes knowing very well that, as citizens of the community, they are due to pay a reasonable amount of tax. Perhaps some accountants should remember that. 
I do not intend to extend the debate on the case of retrospectivity that has arisen with respect to the so-called Curran scheme. I can appreciate the points made by the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon).  I appreciate the soul searching through which he has been in prosecuting his particular point of view. I must say that I do not go along with it. I do not see that the application of retrospectivity in this case constitutes the removal of a benefit from taxpayers for which a cost has already been paid in the making of these schemes. It would seem to me that the Curran scheme is one particular example, as the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  stated, of a blatant and contrived scheme to get out of paying tax, which most people in the community would reasonably reckon should be paid. The right honourable member's points revolved around his political philosophy. That philosophy is respected very sincerely by members of this side of the House but he obviously cannot see his way clear to recognising the proposal in the way that most of us have; that is, that this is a special case. 
It is not as if people had entered into arrangements in which a cost had been paid in the present year that would not be able to be retrieved. The only cost that this retrospectivity will affect will be fees that people in some cases have paid to taxation consultants. I understand that some of these fees were paid with a money back guarantee if not satisfied. I understand that some of the carpetbaggers in this country who have been enticing people into these schemes in a great rush in recent months have been offering money back if it does not work, which probably reinforces the point of view that the schemes really are very much a try-on and a way, as I said before, of shifting the burden from the people who would be due to pay a reasonable amount of tax to somebody else. Of course that somebody else might just be a person on a low income. That might mean that the Government cannot afford to carry on some of the programs that it considers important. 
In my electorate of Eden-Monaro the reaction by and large to the prospect of this legislation being made retrospective has been a happy one. As I usually do with any legislation that is either controversial or which reflects very squarely on my electorate, I have contacted a number of accountants who deal on a day-to-day basis with people's taxation problems. In only one case did I hear a violent reaction against this legislation. I did not ask whether that person had been recommending these schemes but certainly all the other cases in my electorate- I am not trying to say that the accountants in my electorate are not intelligent and industrious in looking at possible tax avoidance schemes- have said that they regarded these schemes as being too blatant for them to recommend them to people. They regard them as an unfair shifting of the tax burden. 
The reaction from the Opposition with respect to retrospectivity has disappointed me somewhat. I would have thought that the old rattling that we hear from the other side about the rich and the poor might have given way to a sensible debate in some cases. I cannot help noticing that the Opposition again uses this opportunity to jump in and criticise people for being tax dodgers when perhaps all they have done was a reasonable amount of tax avoidance. I point out that even amongst very low income earners tax dodging is going on all the time. Everybody knows that money from cash transactions in some cases is hidden from the tax collector. That is well known. I know from experience that this must go on. It happens not only with people who spend money to work out contrived schemes. Tax avoidance is a reasonable attitude to take within reasonable bounds. I suppose in the last two years I have heard on dozens and dozens of occasions the Opposition trying to show that it is a party that tries to look after people on low incomes. It uses this sort of opportunity to knock the people on higher incomes. I always think that it is unfortunate in a country such as ours that there is a party that still has that attitude- the attitude that it is terrible to make a profit and terrible to be rich. I would hope that in this country we may have the opportunity to bring thousands and thousands more people up to a higher income level, either for their own good or perhaps for the good of people to whom they may be able to distribute their income. The idea of saying that we have to try to make everybody poor so that we can have a government with big taxation reserves does not gel with me. I suppose that the attitude of members of the Opposition- I say this in a reasonably kind way because I appreciate that they have a different philosophy from the Government especially on taxation matters- that that retrospectivity is bad and is not sacred is one of the reasons that so many people were frightened away from this country during the time they were in office and the reason that so many overseas investors knew that they would not know where they stood with respect to arrangements that they had had in this country. 
There is a problem always- I suppose this is pan of the basic philosophy of taxation- in having different sectors pay for other sectors in the economy. One of the main reasons for having a taxation system in the first place is to enable transfer payments from the rich to the poor, from the healthy to the unwell and from the advantaged to the disadvantaged. Members on both sides of the House have always recognised that there is great merit in a taxation system that provides greater equity. It also provides a means for the public purse to be able to pay for expenditure for merit wants, that is, those wants that the Government is able to satisfy and which people as individuals cannot satisfy. I am not trying to run away from the question that taxation has to be raised; I am just saying that we should not say that retrospectivity is a good thing if it catches more and more so-called tax dodgers. I think that retrospectivity basically has to be retained as a sacred cow and I hope that people who are listening to this debate realise that the Treasurer meant it when he said that retrospectivity is a sacred cow. This is a special case- I am referring to the Curran scheme- because of the size of revenue which is required for those reasons I have just given; namely, for transfer payments and for the public purse to be able to carry out reasonable programs required by the public. There is a problem always in knowing when avoidance in moral terms really means evasion. I have no doubt in my mind that some of the schemes that are being outlawed in these amendments are morally evasion schemes which up until now have been within the law and in terms of semantics could have been considered avoidance schemes. Certainly many people shunned the Curran scheme because they regarded it morally as an evasion scheme. 
On the other hand, as I said a few minutes ago, we know that it is important for people, acting within the law and within reasonable bounds, to avoid tax. I am reminded of one of the earlier and great philosophers, Thomas Aquinas who said very clearly that it is every man's duty to minimise his tax within the law. As a point of philosophy, I think that that is quite reasonable. But now carpetbaggers are going into the towns of Australia, opening up their bags and saying to tax consultants, 'Look, you can tell your clients that there is no need to pay any more tax'. That sort of attitude was referred to by the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  a few minutes ago when he referred to an article in an Adelaide newspaper. When these events occur and when we find that there is an attitude that people can get around the law so that the burden of taxation is shifted, these practices need to be stopped. 
There was an example last year of this sort of attitude when amendments were made to section 36a of the Income Tax Assessment Act. When the first amendment was passed, it was found that it was not tight enough. The Government found that there were quite blatant advertisements in newspapers such as the  Australian Financial Review  stating, in effect: 'Get in while the going is good. The Government still has not closed off this loophole'. It makes me angry when this occurs. I know that it is within the law but it is a case where tax avoidance is really tax evasion. A basic problem exists- we can see this from the fact that the Government needs to introduce so many amendments to the taxation laws to plug the loopholes- because of the way that the taxation law is constructed. That is probably one of the reasons the Taxation Review Committee stated in its report of 1975 that, as a matter of logic, more simple taxes would be possible if indirect taxes were introduced and there was no personal income tax. The simplicity of this case is self-evident. The report stated: 
Were simplicity and efficiency the only objectives, one might aim at a system overwhelmingly dependent for revenue upon a single broad-based tax on goods and services set at a very high rate, with some simple additional taxes on, for example, alcoholic drinks, tobacco, and motoring to serve the specific interventions in the private market needed for efficiency purposes. 
If such a system were introduced, we would find that people would not be able to dodge the payment of their taxes very easily. There would be very little work for accountants. Perhaps that would be good in a social sense. But we would run into a problem in that the burden of taxation in many cases would fall on to the wrong people. Of course, this Government could not support that sort of taxation simplicity, nor did  Mr Justice  Asprey. He pointed out that in order to achieve its ends, Australia has a very complex taxation system. Because of that complex taxation system, loopholes exist. I wonder whether we could not think of a different way to collect taxes. I speak on the subject as a layman, as did the honourable member for Hawker. But it seems to me that the taxation law deals with the payment of tax and then accepts a whole number of non-payment provisions such as those contained in section 26 of the Act. Perhaps we should define only those areas in which tax will be paid. That sort of approach would be, as it were, a zero base approach to taxation. Perhaps that sort of approach has been looked at over the years. But in Australia we seem to say that tax will be paid on everything but that the payment of that tax can be avoided by taking certain action. It is these certain actions that provide the loopholes. Certainly, I can see an on-going problem for the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  under the existing type of taxation system. I would say this also in mild reprimand of the Taxation Office. Perhaps one of the problems of the Treasurer in this case and one of the reasons there has been so much flack in respect of this matter is that the Taxation Office was not able to monitor the extent to which the Curran schemes were enabling the avoidance of taxation. I wonder whether the Taxation Office could have given the Treasurer a little more notice on this matter. It was stated that the Office did not know all these practices were going on. Perhaps it could have found out the position a little earlier and warned the Government. 
In conclusion, I reiterate a general principle: This is a Government of low taxation. It has shown that by its tax reforms introduced in February of this year. Honourable members opposite have raised some matters such as the Medibank levy. But if they look at the present position of taxation in this country, they will see that it is in sharp contradistinction to the efforts of the previous Labor Government. If this is to be a Government of low taxation, it must be a Government that looks at the taxation loopholes and tries to plug up the inequitable ones in order to cut down on the taxation paid by the average man in this country who we believe should be allowed to make a quid for the benefit of his family. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the three measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the three measures? As there is agreement, I will allow that course to be followed. 
I ask the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs whether he is in a position to inform the House of the state of negotiations between the Australian Government and the Queensland Government in regard to the situation at Aurukun and Mornington Island, and what is the constitutional position regarding Commonwealth intervention? 
-Is the amendment seconded? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security. No doubt he is aware of the comment in the Auditor-General's report that $ 19.8m in social security benefits was overpaid during the past year. Is the Minister able to say what action the Minister responsible and the Department of Social Security will take to see that this waste of taxpayers ' funds is not repeated in the future? 
It would have been a relatively easy matter for this Government to have brought down a Budget on 15 August which would have been superficially popular, although some deeper thinking economic critics would have found this to be unsound, as indeed it would have been. The election of a government should not be a popularity contest. When people choose a government one would hope that they would choose that party or candidate who will act in the best long term interests of the nation and the people themselves. In framing this Budget the Government has been forced to take measures which will not please all members of the community in the short term. This was a hard Budget for any Treasurer to bring down but it was a necessary Budget and it was economically responsible. When this Government took office from the Labor Government in 1975 the economy was, to say the least, in a mess. When Labor came to power in 1972 it had inherited a sound economy- inflation was running at only 4.5 per cent and unemployment was only 1 .4 per cent of the work force. 
In December 1972, according to Commonwealth Employment Service statistics, unemployment stood at 135,747. After three years of Labor rule the number of unemployed in December 1975 had multiplied to a staggering 343,939, a percentage increase of 153 per cent, or 5 1 per cent per annum. 
I will tell the honourable member. The total number of unemployed in July 1978, after  2Vi  years of the Fraser Government's tenure of office, was 393,378, an increase of only 14 per cent for the period as against 153 per cent, and an annual increase of less than 5 per cent as against 5 1 per cent. No one is suggesting that the Government or any honourable member is happy with the present rate of unemployment, but there is no doubt that the rapid escalation of unemployment under Labor has been slowed down drastically under the present Fraser Government. 
New let us look at inflation. Under the Whitlam Labor Government inflation escalated from 4.5 per cent to 17 per cent per annum. In one quarter it even reached 19 per cent. Under the present Government's policies inflation has now been brought down to about 7.9 per cent and according to the Treasury estimates it should be around 5 per cent by June next year. This in itself is a remarkable achievement. In addition interest rates have fallen and are expected to continue to fall. Foreign investment guidelines have been modified to facilitate investment by partly Australian owned foreign companies and the embargo on overseas borrowings for periods of less than six months has been suspended. It is of course natural that this Government would desire to stimulate the economy to reduce unemployment. However, there is no point in stimulating the economy if the economy is not in a fit state to handle the stimulus in a stable manner. 
It would be foolish to throw away the hard won gains, that is, lowered inflation, lowered interest rates and the slowing down of the increase in unemployment that this Government has achieved by its policy of restraint. If an increase in the deficit is to be financed in a noninflationery manner, this must necessitate a large increase in the sale of government bonds. The public will be induced to take up this increase in bond subscriptions only if higher interest rates are offered. Due to the relationship between the state of business confidence and the rate of interest one need only look at the share market to see with what favour investors and businessmen greeted the latest fall in the government bond rate. Any immediate increase in aggregate demand through an increase in the money supply would lead only to an immediate increase in imports and perhaps prices rather than an increase in the domestic output at the present time. 
Due to the expectation of an increased money supply being inflationary, foreign investors would be less willing to invest in Australia and we need investment in Australia at this time. A lack of investment in Australia would cause a further drain on Australia's international reserves which would force either large-scale international borrowing or a devaluation of the dollar with its associated destabilising economic effects. So clearly, with our balance of payments already officially described by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development in its latest report as 'weak', Australia is in no position to give a large-scale domestic stimulus to the economy, and this view is supported by the OECD in its latest full-scale study of the Australian economy. 
We must not, however, underestimate the economic achievements of the present Fraser Government. They are, of course, the lowering of interest rates, the lowering of the rate of inflation and the stabilisation of money supply growth at a reasonble level which is a pleasant change in real terms from that which was experienced from year to year under the Whitlam Labor Government. Under that Government the money supply increased in real terms by 20 per cent in 1973 and then turned around and decreased by 20 per cent in real terms in 1974. What was clearly needed following the Labor Government was the adoption of a more flexible and realistic exchange rate policy to enable the removal of large-scale speculation against the Australian dollar. Important also was the gradual return to traditional shares of national product. Real wages which increased out of hand and all proportion during the Whitlam years of 1974 and 1975 have had to be gradually brought back to a more equitable level and companies are again approaching a more reasonable return on their investments. However, for any government to squander these hard-won gains by trying to stimulate the economy too soon and too much would set the economy back many, many years. 
There is one matter in the Budget which concerns me greatly, and it is the retrospectivity of increased tax on holiday leave accrued before the alteration in tax rates announced on 15 August in the Budget. Tax was payable on only 5 per cent of the accrued annual leave of anyone who retired prior to 15 August. From 15 August accrued annual leave, even if it was accrued ten years ago, is to be taxed at the rate of 33 W per cent. I would like to read to the House a letter which I have received from a constitutent. This letter is typical of many that I, and I have no doubt many other honourable members, have received. The letter states: 
Dear  Sir, 
It is a matter of deep concern to me, as a voter in your electorate, that the provisions of the 1978-79 Federal Budget will cause me great financial disadvantage. 
I specifically refer to the proposals affecting accrued long service leave and arrears of annual leave. 
I am employed as a Stationmaster in the Traffic Branch of the Victorian Railways, which involves shift work as well as working on weekends and Public Holidays. Under the terms of the Railways Salaried Officers Award there is an option available to either take extra pay, or have an additional day credited to annual leave when Public Holidays are worked. 
It seems a callous approach to further penalise a penalty granted by arbitration to compensate those people, who by the nature of their employment, have to work when the greater proportion of the work force is enjoying a day's recreation. 
Additionally, the Traffic Branch of the Victorian Railways has suffered a chronic staff shortage since VP Day 1 945, and the Departmental policy has been to not grant long service leave, except in exceptional circumstances, or upon retirement as a lump sum. 
Also the Public Holidays so accrued have been treated in the same way. As I have been the victim of this chronic shortage I have been forced to accrue both long service leave and Public Holidays. 
It can, therefore, be logically argued that an elector in my position having served 43 years with the Victorian Railways, is being unjustifiably penalised by the provisions of the proposed Budget. 
I also have a friend who I know very well and who is in a similar position. He has served for 30 years with the Victorian Railways. To June 1978 he had accrued 205 days annual leave and 140 days for work he was forced to perform on public holidays because someone had to man the railway station. Therefore he had accrued 345 days worth a salary of something like $ 1 1,000. His tax consultant estimates that when he retires at the end of the year he will be taxed at about 40c in the dollar on his accrued leave added to his salary. The cost to this man, who is just about 60 years of age, will be something like $4,000. I think it is pretty terrible that little people who have paid their taxes over the years and who have been law-abiding citizens are to be hit so solidly by this Budget. 
I and other honourable members have raised this matter with the Treasurer  (Mr Howard),  but to no avail. I am concerned because these people are hard working and, as I have said, lawabiding members of our community. I have put to the Treasurer that leave accrued prior to the presentation of the Budget should be taxed at the old rate but that leave accrued after 15 August should be taxed at the new rate of 33 W per cent. This, I believe, would remove the retrospectivity of this tax and at the same time any unfairness which may be meted out to these people. I have been told by the Treasurer that such a proposal is not practicable but I have not been told why it is not practicable. I do not accept that expalanation. I am not satisfied with the answer and I hope that the Treasurer and the Government will take some action to see that these people are not hurt by this decision to make this tax retrospective. 
-The honourable member does not have much time. The debate ends at 12.45 p.m. 
It is not often that I rise to speak in the adjournment debate. I do so not as an exercise but only when I feel strongly about something. I was very concerned to read articles which appeared in the newspapers today. The article in the Australian is headed: 'Lynch, Holding are accused'. Another article is headed: 'Jennings blasts top MPs'. Yet another is headed: 'Holding's pay-off claim'. I have known both of the men named for some 30 odd years. I have known the honourable member for Melbourne Ports, Clyde Holding, and the Minister for Industry and Commerce for many years. I am concerned that one man in the Victorian State Parliament in Melbourne can use parliamentary privilege to blacken the characters of two men from different sides of the chamber. I am not being party political on this matter. I am concerned because this affects not only the two gentlemen concerned but also their families and the whole parliamentary institution which all of us believe in so much. 
As my friend the honourable member for Moore,  Mr John  Hyde, said to me earlier tonight, parliamentary privilege is not a licence to slander. This  Mr Doug  Jennings from Victoria, has used the parliamentary system to blacken the names of two people in whom I have the greatest faith. I say that of Clyde Holding even though he is on the opposite side of the Parliament to me as I say it about Phil Lynch. That this man can use the parliamentary system to blackguard and slander men who are serving their country in the way in which they see fit and want best to serve it is a very sad state of affairs. I think  Mr Doug  Jennings should be ashamed of himself. I hope that all the people of Australia will make the same decision about him that I have made. 
I raise a matter which concerns a company in my electorate whose business has been hurt. It has faced added expenses because of the error of a public servant in the Australian Telecommunications Commission in not putting its telephone number in the telephone book. I will quote from the correspondence on this matter. The letter from the company said: 
Our Company has two Display Home locations, one at Burwood Highway, Vermont and the other in Serpells Road, Templestowe. 
Our office was at Burwood Highway Centre and we anticipated moving our office to Templestowe when completed but for other reasons we moved our office to our present address of 3 Karou Court, Vermont South and had our telephone transferred from our Burwood Highway Centre to this address. 
Telecom however cut us out of the 'white page ' directory although not advised to do so and gave us a location at our Templestowe Centre also with another number not even connected and did not list our present telephone number. 
This is quite devastating to us particularly in view of the Building Industry sinking slowly out of sight and our image has been damaged as the public generally leap to the conclusion that that Centre has gone out of business and that is farthest from the truth. 
As a result it was necessary for us to attempt to make ourselves known so we were forced to place our Company with the 'Yellow Pages' for which a cost of $80-00 has to be paid. 
We believe that Telecom have made a serious blunder to say the least and as we still have to pay our telephone rental for an unlisted number and name we feel that Telecom should be expected to pay us compensation, by that we mean at least the entry in the Yellow Pages. 
I was asked to bring the matter to the notice of Telecom. I received a reply from  Mr Smith,  the State Manager of Telecom, which, in part, states: 
My enquiries reveal that in July 1977, arrangements were made for the entry B. J. Fulton Pty Ltd, Sarah Crescent, 
Templestowe, telephone 846 2279, to be listed in the directory computer file following  Mr Fulton's  application for removal of his telephone service to this address. Unfortunately, although Telecom Australia was later advised that the service was to be moved instead to 3 Karou Court, Vermont South, this notification was not referred to the area responsible for alterations to directory entries. This failure in our procedures is being examined closely to avoid any similar occurrences in future. 
Regarding  Mr Fulton's  request for free prominent listing in the Yellow Pages, whilst in no way detracting from the seriousness of this error, the Telecom By-Laws make no provision for the recognition of claims for compensation arising as a result of errors in, or omissions from the telephone directory. 
I have now received a further letter from  Mr Fulton.  He said: 
In  Mr Smith's  letter to you it is quite clear that there was no further thing which this Company could do to ensure that our entry in the directory was assured. 
We are not satisfied that Telecom Australia can just turn around and say our By-laws do not allow for compensation for an obvious error of this type. 
No other organisation can pass off their errors in this manner and we do not accept the explanation given. 
Any company in Australia would be extremely wealthy if it brushed aside it's errors by saying our Memorandum and Articles of Association do not allow for our errors. 
Under the circumstances it is apparent that the matter must be brought out in the House of Representatives so the whole structure will be amended and that Telecom will be responsible for their mistakes and we would ask if you would be good enough to present to the House our frustrations in this matter. 
In conclusion, I feel that this firm has suffered quite a lot through the fact that people have not been able to contact it. Perhaps people thought that it had gone out of business. On top of that it has had to pay $80 to have its telephone number put in the yellow pages. It has been treated very unfairly. I think that this matter should be aired publicly in the House. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I ask the honourable member to withdraw that remark. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member for Port Adelaide will resume his seat. The honourable member for Denison is raising a point of order. 
But when the leaders of the major Western countries met several months ago in Europe the first thing they spoke about was how to get people back to work. If that means government institutions being used, if it means supplementary government grants being provided to industry or if it means government equity in industry, those things will have to be done. The Labor Party will not stand idly by and watch thousands and thousands more young people in this country be placed in dole queues and be called, as honourable members opposite call them, 'dole bludgers'. That is their name for young people who cannot get jobs in Australia and it reflects their mental attitude to people who cannot get employment. Members of the Liberal and National Country parties call them dole bludgers. Why do not honourable members opposite tell these people that. Last week this document became available - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! There is no point of order. I call the honourable member for Port Adelaide. 
Let us look at the business enterprises of honourable members who sit opposite on the front bench. They are involved in land dealings and with undertakers. There are allegations of bribing candidates and allegations of bribing electoral commissioners. Those are the sorts of business undertakings that honourable members on the front bench of their Party are used to. But the two most reactionary right wing people on the back bench rose in this debate and said that the Australian Labor Party tomorrow will nationalise Grace Brothers, General Motors Holdens' Pty Ltd or some other company. The Australian Labor Party when next in office will have a duty to clear up the mess that has been created in Australia. 
-I suggested earlier that the honourable member for Hotham withdraw a remark of a similar nature when it was objected to by the honourable member for Reid. I would suggest, without restricting his freedom to criticise, that the honourable member for Fraser should withdraw. 
The Minister gave an assurance last year that regardless of whatever action was taken standards of education in Canberra would not be reduced. But he has imposed staff ceilings which are in conflict with staffing formulae. He has set a formula and now he has imposed ceilings which do not allow that formula to be adhered to, so next year the various schools will not have the same number of staff. They cannot follow the staffing formula, which has been set down by the Schools Authority, within the staff ceilings which have been imposed, so standards are going to be reduced. Some people may think that everything in the educational system in Canberra is bright and beautiful just because the schools happen to be rather new. However, members of this House should know that there are many grave deficiencies. In a primary school quite near to where I live in Campbell there are 42 children in a kindergarten class, 35 in another class and 36 in another. Theoretically the number of students in a class should not exceed 30. In most States of Australia the relationships between the staff and the students are much better than they are in Canberra. That is not just an isolated case. There are plenty of cases in Canberra where the staffing situation is quite serious. The type of education that children in Canberra are getting is suffering because there are not enough teachers. Yet next year, according to the Minister, there will be fewer still. The Government has forced this industrial action. The teachers would stop their industrial action tomorrow if the Minister agreed to sit down and negotiate. But he has been quite pig-headed about the matter and he just will not talk about it. He has taken a decision and that is it. 
The other means by which our educational standards is being attacked is the impending decision- I do not know what it will be but I do not think it will be pleasant- in relation to study leave. I questioned the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  about this the other day. He said that it was costing the Government up to $40m to grant study leave. The report that we have seen says that the cost in terms of salaries and travelling expenses is $ 15.8m, not $40m. If we exclude salaries- people have to be paid whether they are on study leave or not- the figure is only $1.58m. No doubt the Prime Minister has manipulated some figures to create a figure of $40m. That is a totally misguided figure and it completely distorts the cost of study leave to the Australian community. That is a very parochial attitude to take. He also said in his reply that perhaps study leave should be taken in other universities in Australia. That is certainly a very parochial attitude to take. 
Since I received that reply from the Prime Minister I have received letters from two academics in Canberra briefly setting out the advantages that they have gained in the last 12 months from study leave. They both deal with very important aspects of Australian research. One of them deals with genetic engineering which is one of the most exciting research areas in Australia today and has very important implications for our rural industries. He had 12 months in America and learned a great deal. The other deals with solar energy, which is another very important aspect of our research program. Those are just two of the areas that are able to be advanced by study leave. Yet it is our understanding that the Prime Minister has some sort of hangup about study leave and about academics generally and that the Government is going to impose some very stringent restrictions on study leave. I think we would all concede that there have been abuses of study leave, and certainly the loopholes should be closed up, but I hope that the Prime Minister does not put Australian universities in a situation where they are out of step with universities in the rest of the world. 
The Opposition is also very concerned about the tardiness of the Government in making a firm commitment to construct the new and permanent Parliament House. I think we have reached the stage where a commitment has to be made very soon, otherwise the target date of 1988, which has been talked about for many years, will not be met. I sincerely hope that the Government will make some firm commitment so that we can get on with the process. Everybody concedes that there is an urgent need for a new Parliament House. The Parliamentary Library particularly is under strain. It has a crucial function to perform in relation to the Parliament and performs that function very well. However, demands on its services have increased enormously and it has to move towards new technology in library services which will help to alleviate the pressures due to the lack of space. Eventually more staff and more space will be required in order to supply the necessary service to members of this Parliament. 
We all know that if a decision is made to build a new Parliament House it will not provide a lot of work in the very short term for the building industry in Canberra, which has virtually been emasculated by this Government and is on its last legs. Certainly if a decision were made some immediate aid would be given in the early stages to people on the professional side of buildingarchitects and draughtsmen. Later on, when the actual building gets under way, it would be of great assistance to the building industry in Canberra, which has suffered grievously under this Government. A couple of big projects- the Art Gallery and the High Court- will be completed fairly soon and when they are finished there will be no major projects going on in Canberra. The Belconnen Mall project has kept the industry going but it is completed now, and when those other two projects are finished there will be nothing to keep the building industry going in Canberra. The other project on which we would like to see some action is the new Post Office, which the Government has decided it is going to build. As yet there has been no indication as to when it is going to get under way, and we desperately need some action on that- a little less talk and a little more action. 
I want to refer very briefly to the coming referendum for self-government in Canberra. The referendum will be held in a few weeks time and yet even to this day the people of Canberra do not know what the Government means by the three options it has given. No written information has been provided, and the referendum is only a few weeks away. The action of the Government prejudices the possibility of people voting for some form of self-government. I think people have to think very seriously about this matter. People who complain about decisions being made affecting Canberra in which they do not have an active role should think very seriously when considering whether they should vote for or against some form of selfgovernment. Many people want a change but they hesitate to indicate what change they want because they do not know the implications, particularly the financial implications, of what the Government means when it says that it wants to give a measure of self-government to Canberra. I hope that information will be forthcoming very soon and that people will consider it very seriously indeed and not reject the opportunity of giving the people of Canberra the degree of selfgovernment that is enjoyed by every other community in Australia. 
I have said before in this House that this is the only occasion in the history of Australia when people have been given an opportunity to reject some form of self-government. It has always been regarded as a democratic right and an obligation of people to govern themselves, and I hope that the people of Canberra will see it in that light. But their decisions are being inhibited by the lack of precise information from the 
Government on what it means by offering three options. Instead of offering self-government or no self-government, the Government is asking: Do you want a little bit of self-government? Do you want a large measure of self-government? Do you want no change?' It also raises the question of what the attitude of the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Ellicott)  would be if people voted for no change. If it means that- in fact- there will be no change, will he consider changing the name of the Legislative Assembly, which has no power to legislate, back to 'Advisory Council*? 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Did the Minister for Defence note at Question Time yesterday how upset the Leader of the Opposition appeared when he asked the Prime Minister about a dinner given by some 40 Government back benchers in honour of the South African Ambassador in a private dining room in Parliament House? Is the Minister aware of other reports that he dropped in to pay his respects to the Ambassador? Is it his practice to be normally courteous to ambassadors with whose countries we have diplomatic relations? 

 -Mr Speaker has received letters from both the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  and the honourable member for Indi  (Mr Ewen Cameron)  proposing that definite matters of public importance be submitted to the House for discussion today. As required by Standing Order 107,  Mr Speaker  has selected one matter; that is, that proposed by the honourable member for Gellibrand, namely: 
The Government's continuing policy of reducing the real level of wages. 
I therefore call upon those members who approve of the proposed discussion to rise in their places. 

 More than the number of members required by the Standing Orders having risen in their places- 

-Is the amendment seconded? 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the three measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
Is it correct that the Prime Minister has received an objection from State housing Ministers to a statement which was released by a Federal Minister following the housing Ministers' meeting in Adelaide last Friday? Has the Prime Minister seen the statement which was released by the Minister? Why would the States act in such a way? 

 -Mr Speaker has received letters from the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris),  the honourable member for Indi  (Mr Ewen Cameron)  and the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  proposing that definite matters of public importance be submitted to the House for discussion today. As required by Standing Order 107,  Mr Speaker  has selected one matter; that is, that proposed by the honourable member for Shortland, namely: 
The Government's failure to introduce lower international airfares. 
I call upon those members who approve of the proposed discussion to rise in their places. 

 More than the number of members required by the Standing Orders having risen in their places- 

Motion (by  Mr Macphee)  proposed: 
That business of the day be called on. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the three measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
Order! The Minister will resume his seat. I do not want to inhibit crossfire or interjections across the chamber which may help to elucidate matters but I suggest to certain members on my right that they allow the Minister to continue. 
-If that is so, I suggest to the honourable member for Batman that he does not refer to that particular matter. 
One recalls that in 1976 the Victorian Government promised that it would create a metropolitan transit authority. Here we are in 1979 and nothing like a metropolitan transit authority has been established by the Victorian Government. It has not managed to develop a plan and it has not managed to develop an appropriate authority. In terms of its history of involvement in transport planning, it represents a planning disaster. If one correlates that with its history in relation to land use planning and its involvement both directly and indirectly in the speculative land industry, one sees a position which is extremely disturbing considering that Commonwealth money is flowing into that particular State. One can only believe that in the heat of the election campaign the Victorian Government will finally commit itself to some kind of transport plan and it will finally establish a transit authority and develop some rationality in transport planning. 


 Speaker has received letters from the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  and the honourable member for Indi  (Mr Ewen Cameron)  proposing that definite matters of public importance be submitted to the House for discussion today. As required by Standing Order 107,  Mr Speaker  has selected one matter for discussion, that is, that proposed by the honourable member for Blaxland, namely: 
The economic burden of the Fraser Government's petrol pricing policies. 
I therefore call upon those members who approve of the proposed discussion to rise in their places. 

 More than the number of members required by the Standing Orders having risen in their places- 

-I ask the Prime Minister: Has he seen reports that the Government should introduce a tax on capital? Has the Government given consideration to this matter and will the Prime Minister tell the House whether the Government is contemplating such a tax? 
I welcome the opportunity to take part in this foreign affairs debate tonight. I congratulate the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  on a well prepared and comprehensive statement. During the past two or three weeks the whole world has held up its hands in horror at a possible confrontation between two giant nations, the Soviet Union and the People's Republic of China.  Major disasters  for the Western world have occurred in rapid succession on the international scene- in the Horn of Africa, in southern Africa, in the Middle East and, in the past few weeks, in Indo-China. But all of these events surely pale into insignificance when compared with the dormant disaster which is Jimmy Carter in Washington. As one commentator Creighton Burns remarked at the weekend, for Jimmy Carter it is a world out of control. 
Carter is in the position of heading the most powerful nation in the world, but he seems incapable of taking any concrete initiatives of any sort to deal with the problems facing the Western world. This latter day Nero continues to fiddle and fumble. He took enormous kudos and credit for the Camp David talks between Begin and Sadat, but the record shows that it was the behind the scenes manipulation of Israeli and Egyptian intelligence services which led to the address by Sadat to the Israeli Parliament, the Knesset. 
The only concrete result from the Camp David talks is that Sadat and Begin are still talking, but they were doing that anyway before the Camp David talks. Other than that, no concrete results have been achieved. On all fronts we have seen the Soviet Union take the initiative: In IndoChina with the Vietnamese in Kampuchea, with the Cubans, in Africa and in Iran where the leftist forces helped set the stage for the toppling of the pro-Western Shah. Iran, which once produced one-tenth of the world's supply of oil, some 6 million barrels per day, now produces only 700,000 barrels per day. If Iran becomes a precedent for the rest of the Middle East, the Western World could be virtually starved of oil supplies or, if not starved, at least put on a subsistence diet, which could well cripple the West's industries and make it impotent. 
It should be noted that one of the first acts of the new Iranian Government was to break off relations with Israel and ban oil supplies to Israel and South Africa. What will this act do to enhance stability in the already volatile Middle East arena? What will be the effect on the policies of South Africa? 
Turning to Africa,  President  Carter seems to believe that with a United Nations peacekeeping force going into Namibia the West has had a victory. It must be a very dubious victory indeed. The question facing the West is whether the situation created by  President  Carter's initiatives in Namibia will result in a stable situation. I believe there are very grave doubts that this will occur. We have already witnessed in Angola the takeover of a Soviet orientated government with the assistance of would be Cuban mercenaries armed and supplied by the Soviet Union. Will Namibia be next? In Zimbabwe, formerly Rhodesia, we have seen the Carter Administration, together with the British socialist Government, reject the moderate multi-racial interim governments of Bishop Muzorewa, the Reverend 
Sithole, Chief Chirau and  Mr Ian  Smith. The Carter Administration prefers to continue dialogue with the Communist backed, so-called Patriotic Front of Nkomo and Mugabe, who refuse to face the people at elections and who want to seize power by force and only by force. The Carter Administration has refused to take part in the supervision or even observation of the elections to be held in Zimbabwe in March. 
If Rhodesia follows Angola and Mozambique into the Communist camp, it will only be a matter of time before the whole of Southern Africa, with all its vast wealth and potential, is alienated to the West. To state this is in no way to align myself with the policies of any Government in southern Africa. But we should be aware that a moderate government's basic interests are more compatible with those of the Western World than any which would be set up by the Communist backed Nkomo or Mugabe. 
Let us now look at the Soviet's Cubans in Asia. For a little over a fortnight the world has sat with bated breath wondering whether the invasion of Kampuchea by the Vietnamese was the flashpoint which could well spark off the beginning of World War III. One could be forgiven for wondering, if I may comment in passing, where now are Jim Cairns and his Labor Party friends who led thousands into the streets in earlier times in the interest of peace in Vietnam? The streets are strangely silent today. 
With the Soviet Union spreading its influence in Asia, Chinese intervention was inevitable. It is not that the People's Republic of China was prompted by territorial ambitions in Vietnam, but they wished, probably naturally enough, to make sure that they were not outflanked by the Soviet Union in Asia. The Chinese intervention in Vietnam aimed at showing to the Soviet that China would not sit idly by while her interests were put in jeopardy. It was also obviously a calculated military exercise to let the Vietnamese know, quite clearly, that they could not afford to commit more divisions to Kampuchea. Overall the situation in Indo-China seems to indicate that here is another explosive situation, sparked by the Soviet Union, which has caught Jimmy Carter once again with his pants down. And so the Soviet interests advance. Meanwhile the Western World led by Jimmy Carter and his Administration muddles on. 
Let us for a moment compare 'Clean Carter', the peanut farmer, with Richard Nixon, the used car salesman, whom no one would trust. If it was not for Watergate, Nixon would be remembered today as the man who pulled the United States out of a disastrous Asian war, and who made the first overtures by the United States to the People 's Republic of China, after nearly 30 years of non-existent communication. Nixon took initiatives. Carter has only reacted- or failed to react. Nixon's foreign policies were a success. Carter has failed all along the line. Carter seems always to back the wrong horse to the detriment not only of the United States but also to the detriment of the whole Western World, whether it be Africa, the Middle East or Asia. Let us hope that the people of the United States elect as their next  President,  a man who has a better grasp of international realities than the present incumbent. 
When I first entered this Parliament in 1966 the Prime Minister of the day had said that, as far as Australia was concerned, we were all the way with LBJ. Thank goodness that is no longer completely the case. But if we were to look for a slogan today, surely the most apt would be: "There must be someone smarter than Clean Old Jimmy Carter'. To date the ones who have proved themselves smarter than Carter are, unfortunately for the western world, the Russians. 
-I ask the honourable member for Port Adelaide to refer to the Prime Minister by his correct title. 
-I call the honourable member for Shortland. 
The Minister mentioned the negotiations in relation to the remaining European nations. I suggest to the Government that some special attention be given to the needs of the ethnic groups in Australia because of very close family links and emotional ties they have with those countries. I do not believe that this is a political point. I believe it is a view which is subscribed to by all Australians. One example that has been drawn to my attention recently is concerned with the needs of the Greek community in Darwin. Provision needs to be made in the outward bound schedules for those people to join flights being negotiated with Greece, for instance. On the other hand, whilst there has been an arrangement concerning add-on fares for international travellers into and out of Australia, I think that consideration ought to be given to those people who do not have ready access to the availability of those fares. 
I stress just one point, namely, the steadfast adherence of this Government to its policy of high domestic air fares. We are all happy to see the introduction of cheaper air fares for Australians travelling abroad, for Australian people visiting their relatives abroad- hopefully they will bring more people into Australia to stimulate our economy-but what about the people living in Australia who want to travel within Australia? What is the Government doing for those people, other than boosting domestic air fares by 27 per cent since 1 976? I make a plea for people living in Australia and travelling in Australia. Let us now see some concerted action in providing for those people. The situation is a ludicrous one. 
A few days ago Qantas put a proposition in relation to air fares to New Zealand. If these fares are put into operation it will mean that it will be cheaper to travel from Sydney to Auckland off-peak than it will be to fly from Sydney to Melbourne. I am sure that Melbourne businessmen and the families from Melbourne who want to visit Sydney will be very happy about that! There is something dramatically wrong with what is happening in this country. The  Sydney Morning Herald  put the situation very well in an editorial on 10 January 1979, when it stated: 
The main one is that a glaring disproportion is opening up between the new international-air fares and their domestic  couterparts.  It simply does not make sense that, after this month, the cost of a return air ticket from Perth to Sydney will be more than a return ticket from Sydney to San Francisco at certain times of the year. 
Having made that point, I bring to the Minister's attention some of the anomalies that have cropped up in respect of the new air fares. Firstly, there is the rigidity of the conditions upon pre-payment. Whilst it has been said in response that these are the conditions that apply to Atlantic travel- that is pre-payment of air travel- I think that there needs to be a second look at the rigidity of that system and that some provision needs to be made in relation to cases of illness or something untoward happening. If that is not done, when we talk about the air fare we should also be talking about the inclusion of the insurance premium. When a family is involved the total insurance premium, worked out at the rate of $25 per ticket on a round trip to the United Kingdom, can add up to a substantial amount. An example that has been given to me is that of a family- a husband, wife and two children- travelling to England in the shoulder or high peak season. By the time one makes the payment many months in advance, loses income on that money and the flexibility of having control of the cash, and pays the insurance, there is very little difference between the fare under the existing fare arrangements and the new pre-paid fare. 
I also stress the problems that have occurred in the last few weeks in regard to the unavailability of seat space for on-demand travel from the 
United States to Australia. A great deal of prominence has been given- rightly so- to the lower rate air fares, that is, off peak and shoulder air fares. At the same time, proper consideration should be given to the private sector of the Australian community who have to travel on short notice for business reasons. I mention one case which was brought to the notice of the Opposition earlier this month. Business travellers, who normally travel at the economy rate, have had to buy first class tickets in order to obtain a seat. They have then had to wait seven to 14 days to get a seat on a flight across the Pacific back to Australia. The Government has followed an extremely hard and risky line in its handling of the ASEAN dealings. It appears that in its negotiations with the United States on the entry of Continental Airlines this Government collapsed, because the negotiators came out of the conference with that which they took in, namely, the right of Qantas to fly into San Francisco. They obtained some new fare schedules. I do not argue with the new fare schedules; I will speak about the ports. We still have the one gateway port. We have no gateway port other than San Francisco. There is no doubt that the United States was prepared to negotiate in regard to additional ports within the United States for Australia's own airline. We should be doing everything possible to maximise the travel of people from the United States to Australia, in order to develop our tourist industry. We came out of those negotiations with exactly that with which we went in. The Government collapsed. There is little doubt that what happened was a repetition of what happened in earlier years when the American airlines were given access to Australia in return for an increased beef quota. Likewise, on this occasion it seems that the increased beef and cheese orders were negotiated to give Continental Airlines access to the Australian market. 
The Opposition welcomes the Minister's statement on cheaper air fares. It provides information additional to that given previously. We think that following responsible public discussion more information ought to be made available along the lines I have mentioned. We hope that the Australian economy will benefit as a result of the increased number of people coming to Australia. It is our sincere desire that at the conference to be held next week the Australian Government repairs to the benefit of our nation the damage done to our ASEAN neighbours. 
-I thank all honourable members for their contribution to the debate and call on the Minister for Veterans 'Affairs. 
-Is the amendment seconded? 
I rise tonight to express my concern regarding the present population trends which are occurring in Australia. The latest figures released by the Australian Bureau of Statistics for 1977 show that registered births were 1,519 fewer than in 1976. This means that for the sixth consecutive year Australia's birthrate has dropped. When one considers that Australia's population is aging, I believe this is a matter of grave concern for all Australians. 
Australia has 5 per cent of the world's land mass, 15 to perhaps 40 per cent of the world's most sought after minerals, yet only 0.34 per cent of its population. In 100 years time, if present trends continue, Australia's population will fall, at best, to 0.04 per cent of the world's population. That will be the same proportion of the world's population that was in Australia when Captain Cook first set foot in this country. The ramifications of this situation should, I believe, require the Government to reconsider urgently its decision on the number of migrants to be accepted into this country each year. When the Whitlam Government took office and unemployment began to rapidly escalate, that Government reduced immigration to 30,000 persons per annum. However, the net result was an actual outflow of people from Australia of some 5 per cent. On coming to office the Fraser Government increased immigration to 70,000 persons a year under strict guidelines. This year it is estimated that the gross figure will be 90,000 giving a net annual intake of 70,000. This, in my opinion, is far from sufficient. Surely it is essential for the Government to forget the short term and look at the overall long term population which Australia must have to remain viable and free as a nation. 
If we do not populate this vast empty land mass with suitable migrants, then we and our descendants may find that we do not have the choice as to our immigrants. I know some people would think that increased migration at this time may add to unemployment. But this is only a short term and shortsighted view. Hopefully unemployment will not always be the problem that it is at present and indeed, there are already signs that the situation will become easier in the not too distant future. We should be gearing for that time now. I believe that migrants do not add to unemployment but with their demands for goods and services of all kinds they will, on the contrary, stimulate the economy and help reduce unemployment. The greatest period of Australia's development in recent times, in fact of all times, has been during periods of the influx of great numbers of people. One can understand that unions fear that migrants may take the jobs of their members. I do not believe that this would be the case. I believe that the expressed opposition to migration from the unions is quite often the view of the executive rather than of the union members themselves. The rank and file union members in their day to day living are probably far more in touch with the facts of Australia's multicultural development which has enriched all our lives culturally and financially. Many union members have entered this country as migrants. Many have gone on as Australians to become employers of large numbers of Australian workers. 
Over the years migration has made Australia the great and wealthy nation that it is today. To blindly restrict the inflow of people into this country will only serve to stunt and retard its growth and development. It will prevent Australia taking its place as a fully mature nation in the international family. We should not allow transient problems to cloud our vision for the  kind of Australia that we would like to see in the years to come. We owe this to future generations. 
Is the Prime Minister able to inform the House of the outcome of talks which have taken place in Jakarta regarding air fares? 
-I hesitated to interrupt the last honourable member. I would like to say before I call the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  that this debate affects all members of Parliament. I suggest that we all listen to each other's points of view because I think we are all looking towards the same sort of thing. 

Order! The discussion is concluded. 
-Order! The honourable member for Robertson will resume his seat. Up until now the debate has been conducted in a sane, sound and quiet way. I would like it continue in that way. I ask the honourable member to withdraw the word hypocrite'. 
States Nuclear Regulatory Commission following an extensive review, for being too optimistic about the possibility of preventing serious reactor failure. It is exactly the prospect of this kind of disaster which has confronted the citizens of Pennsylvania for the past week: A lossofcoolant accident leading to a core melt-down and a hydrogen explosion shattering the containment vessel and releasing into the atmosphere the fission products that would cause the unimaginable environmental and health devastation the studies have reluctantly described. 
I think that what would concern all Australians, apart from what has happened overseas and our involvement in it, is the statement by  Sir Charles  Court. I regard this as the most irresponsible statement made by any Australian over the last 20 years. I point out, getting away from the question of Harrisburg for the moment, that last year the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  stated that Australia was negotiating nuclear safeguard agreements with Korea and Iran. What guarantee do we have, even if we have the greatest safeguards in the world, that in a country with which we have an agreement a revolution will not occur, as in Iran, with someone like the Ayatollah Khomeyni taking over, with his views on what is right and what is wrong. If he had his hands on a nuclear button, I would not like to be within 1,000 miles of Iran. I find it a most frightening prospect that we could have reached agreement with Iran and the Ayatollah Khomeyni could now be in control of a great deal of nuclear equipment. It would be lovely if he suddenly decided that God had given him the message. He seems to have received messages about every other thing that is going on. I think that we are seeing the beginning of the end of the nuclear debate in this country. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I ask the Prime Minister Is he aware of the major new industrial and other developments that are to take place in Victoria? Will he inform the House of the likely effect of these proposals on job opportunities for the people of Victoria? 
-If the honourable member for Melbourne Ports feels that he has been misrepresented, I suggest that at the end of the speech by the honourable member for Ballarat he will have an opportunity - 
The socialist left in Victoria has very close connections with the Communist Parties . . . they are people who - 
. they are people who opposed the Australian Labor Party for many, many years. In fact, one prominent member of the Socialist Left, Jim Roulston, who for all his official positions and affability was for a long number of years a very, very strict and rigid member of the Communist Party, has now been elected to the Federal Executive of the ALP as a result of a deal made inside the Victorian Labor Party. 
That was said by the same  Mr Roulston  who last weekend at the State ALP Conference seconded a motion moved by  Mr Wilkes  to the effect that a Labor government would permit the Newport power station to operate within environmental guidelines.  Mr Roulston  seconded that motion, despite the fact that 10 days earlier he had said that a Labor government should take action to see that Newport was not used. What is one to believe?  Mr Roulston  is the State  President  of the AMWSU. He is a very powerful man in the trade union movement and in the ALP. I mention in passing- I do not refer to  Mr Roulston  in this context- that 20 senior officials or employees of the AMWSU publicly identify themselves as communists. I can do no better than again to quote what  Sir John  Egerton said, as reported in the same article. He said: 
What has happened is that a Tew years ago the Communist Parties realised that they could not progress under their own steam. A number of people, many of them I think legit.mately and in a bona fide fashion, some of them, I think, to be plants, left the Communist Parties and joined the ALP. The glorious plan now is that this unification of the Left, the Socialist Left, the Communist Left, and the Australian Labor Party Left, will all finally get together and take over the Australian system. 
The results of the State ALP Conference in Victoria last weekend do not change the situation in any way at all. Indeed, contrary to the Press headlines, if anything those results probably confirmed, not diminished, the power of the extreme Left. The conference adopted resolutions which hardened still more the Left's rigid antiuranium policy; which removed the right of State Labor members of parliament to exercise a conscience vote on the matter of abortion- against the Party's strong pro-abortion line; and which took decisions, such as banning the use of asbestos, even when no other less hazardous materials are available. Even on the Newport power station resolution, the powerful union leader,  Mr Ken  Carr, stated emphatically that a number of unions will continue to maintain bans despite the passing of the resolution. As one commentator put it, all that happened at the Conference was that forces within the socialist Left were realigned so that public splits in the ranks could be avoided until after the State election. So let no one be fooled. 
-Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
-Is the amendment seconded? 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I will rule on the point of order. The honourable member for Chifley will resume his seat. As he is a  Deputy Chairman  of Committees he will be well aware of Standing Orders 75 and 76. Standing Order 75 states: 
No member may use offensive words against either House of the Parliament or any Member thereof, against any member of the Judiciary, or against any statute unless for the purpose of moving for its repeal. 
Standing Order 76 states: 
All imputations of improper motives and all personal reflections on Members shall be considered highly disorderly. 
I will read part of the description of business and procedures of the House to refresh the honourable member's memory. It states: 
Matters to be dealt with only by substantive motion 
Certain matters cannot be debated except upon a substantive motion which admits of a distinct vote of the House. These concern the conduct of the Sovereign, the Queen's representative, the  Speaker, Chairman  and Members of both Houses and the Judiciary. Such matters therefore cannot be questioned by way of amendment or during the course of any debate. 
The reference is pages 367, 368 and 428 of the 19th edition of May's  Parliamentary Practice.  I know that the honourable member has overlooked the Standing Orders for the moment. I remind him of them and ask him to adhere to them during the debate. 
The Prime Minister has completely dishonoured his promise to maintain the urban development scheme, which was very important to areas such as one I represent, that is, the outer western suburbs of Sydney, and to areas like the western suburbs of Melbourne. It was doing something worthwhile to improve the living standards and lifestyles of the people in those suburbs. But that scheme is non-existent today. The Prime Minister said that he would remove the tax surcharge of 1.5 per cent by 30 June this year. But, to the contrary, in this legislation he is increasing that surcharge to 2.57 per cent.  His  revenue collections this financial year will amount to $880m. Next financial year he will collect $ 1,320m from the Australian taxpayer -an increase of $440m. The Prime Minister promised that there would be full tax indexation. He gave partial tax indexation this financial year but he has already announced that he does not know whether he will be able to give full indexation next financial year. It is pretty certain that we will not get full tax indexation because already enshrined in the legislation before us today is the fiddling of the consumer price index. In this regard I quote from the explanatory memorandum to this Bill which the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  has placed before this Parliament: 
A further provision will specifically authorise the continued application of existing rates of income tax instalment (PAYE) deductions from salaries and wages until 30 November 1979, pending the making and implementation of 1979-80 Budget decisions about rates of personal income tax for 1979-80 (clause 5). 
The third feature of the Bill will require that the effects on the Consumer Price Index resulting from the first two steps towards import parity pricing of locally produced crude oil be considered in arriving at the tax indexation factor used to adjust the steps in the personal income tax rate scale and the concessional rebates (clause 3 ). 
In other words, the Prime Minister has enshrined in this legislation his proposed fiddle of the consumer price index in the event- the unlikely event- of his introducing full tax indexation in the August Budget. He promised not to interfere with the children's services programs but that program has been emasculated. He promised not to interfere with the home loan interest deductibility scheme but it has been completely wiped out. He made promises to the people in 1975 about the home savings grant scheme, but he has now set a limit of $35,000 for homes qualifying for a full grant, reducing to zero at $40,000. 1 ask honourable members to look around and see how many homes can be bought for $35,000 at a time when, under this Government, housing costs are going through the roof. In other words, in no time at all, simply because of this alteration, home savings grants will be available to hardly anyone at all. The Prime Minister has even broken his promise to his mates in big business, the big mining organisations, about the coal export levy. 
The Prime Minister is saving $ 1 ,300m through the proposals set out in the mini-Budget. These tax proposals and the other proposals announced in the mini-Budget the other night, including the final burying of Medibank, will cost the average family man at least another $10 a week. Let us look at the tax system. Let us take as an example the case of a taxpayer with dependants who at present pays a weekly tax of $38.69. His weekly tax without the surcharge would be $34.96. His tax without the surcharge and with full tax indexation would be $32.16. Therefore the total weekly cost to him of the tax measures in the legislation before this Parliament this afternoon is $6.53. The present weekly tax of a single man earning $220 a week, that is, around the average weekly earnings, is $50.17. His weekly tax without the surcharge would be $46.44. His weekly tax without the surcharge and with full tax indexation would be $44.54. Therefore the total weekly cost to him of these measures amounts to $5.63. So taking into account the health care costs, one can understand why I say that the average family man will be worse off by $10 a week. 
The honourable member for Berowra  (Dr Edwards)  talked about different types of options for the future. In other words, the Government is already looking at which options it has for breaking more promises. Here is one of the options that the Government could take. The aim of the Government is reputed to be to have a Budget deficit no greater than $2, 500m. Yet the Budget deficit presented with the mini-Budget on 24 May was $4,600m. If we substract from that amount the expected revenue saving of $ 1,300m announced on 24 May, we are left with a Budget deficit of $3,300m. If the Government maintains the tax surcharge through to 30 June 1980, it will gain another $770m in revenue. If the Government gives half indexation instead of full indexation, after fiddling with the consumer price index- and that is enshrined in the legislation before us today- it will collect another $2 50m. The amounts of $770m and $250m total $ 1,020m, which would bring the deficit down to $2,280m. We also have to consider the growth factor. As the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  said, the deficit could really blow right out. The estimate of only $300m is very conservative. The Government might decide in August to give away a sprat and forgo $30m by introducing half-yearly tax indexation. This would then give a deficit of $2,6 10m. But if the deficit blows out, or shows signs of blowing out, which it probably will, more vicious cuts will be made in expenditure. These are the types of options which were outlined so vaguely earlier this afternoon by the honourable member for Berowra. 
Why has the Government this revenue problem? One of the major reasons is the Prime Minister's off the cuff, off the top of the head promises, which cannot in the long term possibly be fulfilled. I am talking about the promises he made to his own supporters- the people with big money, the large mining corporations and so on. The Prime Minister has been quite profligate in this regard. He promised handouts to business, handouts such as the coal export levy. Business has received a portion of those handouts, but he has now broken the promise and is limiting the payments. I refer also to the investment allowance, which has been costing $400m a year. Yet we know that the investment allowance is being used by large sectors of business to introduce into industry new technology which is wiping out jobs. This is one of the major reasons for growing unemployment, particularly in the tertiary and manufacturing sectors of the economy. Honourable members should look at what happened with Telecom and in the business sector. One municipal council, which had a complement of 30 stenographers, introduced word processing machines and now has a complement of three stenographers. 
Automation is being introduced into stores throughout the width and breadth of this country. The Government hurried along the automation of our home industries, which are not subject to competition from overseas. There is a case for automation, particularly in industries which are subject to competition from overseas, but the Government has deliberately developed irrational programs in our home industries, programs which, of themselves, have to reduce employment. Then, of course, there is the stock valuation adjustment deduction. All these schemes amounted to big money being outlayed. Handouts were given by the Prime Minister off the top of his head. Such handouts were quite irrational and irresponsible, and the result is that today the Government has a serious revenue problem, a revenue problem of its own making. I notice that the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock),  who is at the table, is very silent indeed. 
I come now to the issue of tax avoidance. The Government gives lip service to tax avoidance and introduces an occasional measure to combat it. The greatest tax avoidance racket in this country today is the family trust mechanism - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member will resume his seat. The time of the honourable member would not be taken up if he did not continually infringe Standing Orders. I ruled earlier on reflections of that type being made against members of this House. I ask for the withdrawal of that remark. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the five matters? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
-The question now is: 
That the words proposed to be omitted stand part of the question. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
-The honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  was not in the House a few moments ago when I made a statement on the conduct of the business of this House today. I know that the honourable member for Hughes, in calling the attention of the Chair to the state of the House, is well within his rights, but I did say earlier, while the honourable member was out of the chamber, that the business of the House has been frustrated today. This creates a reaction on the other side of the House and it does not help the Federal Parliament generally. I suggest that in future all of us endeavour to see that the business of the House proceeds without interruption as far as possible. 
-I am concerned at the behaviour today of a number of honourable members on both sides of the House. This is a responsible Parliament. I think that the people who elect members to this Parliament expect them to act responsibly. I ask them to do so. If, while I am in the chair, they do not act responsibly, I will take action against them very promptly. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering these Bills? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
-The discussion is concluded. 

 -Mr Speaker has received a letter from the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  proposing that a definite matter of public importance be submitted to the House for discussion, namely: 
The failure of the Australian Government to meet the housing needs of low and middle income earners. 
I call upon those members who approve of the proposed discussion to rise in their places. 

 More than the number of members required by the Standing Orders having risen in their places- 

I address my question to the Treasurer. In his Budget Speech he drew attention, very aptly I thought, to the importance of international competitiveness to the prosperity of 
Australia. Is he able to give some indication of how Australia's international competitiveness has moved during recent years? 
-I uphold the point of order of the honourable member for Holt. I suggest to the honourable member for Corio - 
I rise tonight to use one of the few avenues open to me as a member of the House of Representatives to bring before the Parliament a matter which is causing considerable concern to a number of my constituents and, needless to say, to me. I refer to the proposed closing by Australia Post of the unofficial post office in Stud Road shopping centre at Studfield. This unofficial post office has operated in that shoping centre for some 16 years. Several years ago a large regional shopping centre known as Knox City was opened some 900 metres away at the corner of Burwood Highway and Stud Road. In May of this year I received a letter signed by the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley),  but obviously written by his department. It stated that a study of the Studfield area had been made by Australia Post and as a result of that review the 
Studfield unofficial post office would be closed and replaced by an official post office in Knox city shopping centre. The letter also stated that before such action was taken, however, local members of Parliament, local government authorities and other interested parties would be made aware of details of the proposal, and that Australia Post would consider any objections. 
The objections came hot and strong and with some force. A week or so ago I received a further letter saying that should Australia Post decide to close the Studfield unofficial post office the post box could still remain and that alternative arrangements would be made for the locals to purchase stamps. Big deal,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  Although these two shopping centres may be only 900 metres apart they serve a completely different type of clientele and are completely different in character. Knox City is a large regional shopping centre and its patrons come from as far afield as Sassafras, Ferntree Gully, Waverley, Burwood and many other areas. On the other hand, Studfield is a large and busy local shopping centre. The people who shop in Studfield come from local surrounding areas. Many would never visit Knox City. I know this from my knowledge of the area and from a number of friends who live in Studfield. 
I have written to the Minister and have had a number of discussions with him strongly urging that the Studfield unofficial post office not be closed. I pointed out that I believed that facilities at Knox City should be upgraded but that I felt very strongly that the present postal facilities should remain at Studfield. The Minister gave me a most sympathetic hearing. He had visited both shopping centres and was well aware of the difficulties that would be caused if the Studfield unofficial post office were closed. He pointed out to me, however, that he had no power to direct Australia Post in this matter but would do all he could to see that Studfield shopping centre was not denied its present postal facilities. 
I spent from 9 a.m. to 12 noon last Saturday outside the Studfield unofficial post office. Some 250 people used the post office in that time and some 1,000 people signed a petition protesting against the closure. Altogether 4,000 signatures were collected in three days. I spoke to literally hundreds of people on that day and everyone was most emphatic that they did not want the post office closed. Many pointed out that an official post office manned by public servants would not be open on a Saturday. Many older people and mothers with babies who did not have cars said it would be almost impossible for them to get to Knox City. I have made representations to the relevant senior officials of Australia Post and have been told that my views will be noted and that I will be informed when they make a decision in a month or so. I was told that the Studfield unofficial post office had become so busy that an official post office was warranted and that they believed this would be best established at Knox City. I would have thought that the fact that the Studfield Post Office had become so busy would have been sufficient proof that postal facilities should remain in Studfieldnot be taken away. 
In the meantime my constituents are left up in the air and I, their elected representative, am left frustrated in that I am powerless to help them. So, too, apparently is the Minister. We often hear the cry: 'Who runs the country?' We are sometimes told that it is the unions. I venture to suggest that the bureaucrats have a pretty good claim to that title also. I realise that they have a job to do, but if officials of Australia Post close the Studfield post office then they will greatly inconvenience a vast number of people in this rapidly growing community. 

Order! The honourable member should be aware that when speaking in the Budget debate honourable members are allowed to cover a wide range of subjects. That is why I did not prevent the honourable member for Kennedy from so doing. The honourable member for Parramatta has the indulgence of the Chair to do exactly the same thing and to talk about his electorate if he so wishes. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Can the Minister for Industry and Commerce tell the House what measures the Government has taken to increase the access of small businesses to available sources of finance? What funds, if any, have been allocated by the Commonwealth Development Bank in the past 12 months for this purpose? 
-A Budget is a statement of probable revenue and expenditure, and of course of financial proposals for the ensuing year, brought down by a government. It is a responsible document, and the best Budget for the nation will not necessarily always be the most popular, or the most applauded. This Budget has been a responsible Budget and has been universally recognised as such. It has also received considerable applause. Australia, like many other Western nations, has been beset by a number of economic ills during the past few years, and these problems had to be tackled by the Government both fairly and firmly. 
The Fraser Government has not failed to do just that. When the Whitlam Labor Government took office in 1972 it inherited from the McMahon Government a basically sound economy. Unemployment stood at about 1.4 per cent of the work force, and inflation was about 4.5 per cent. When the Liberal-National Country Party regained office in 1975, after 3 years of Labor rule, unemployment represented over 5 per cent of the work force and inflation was running at 17 per cent. During one quarter it had peaked at an annual rate of 1 9 per cent. Today unemployment still stands at between 5 per cent and 6 per cent of the work force. Inflation, however, has been reduced from 17 per cent under Labor to a figure of approximately 8 per cent under the present Fraser Government. The Fraser Government's economic policies have been remarkably successful in reducing inflation. It would be unfair to blame all of Australia's economic ills on the Whitlam Government, although it is true to say that the policies of that Government during its term of office did not help the situation in any way. 
When the Whitlam Government came to office in 1972, Labor had been in opposition for many years. It is understandable in the circumstances, that the new Government had many plans and policies which it wished to put into operation. This it did with great gusto. Money seemed to be no object as new scheme succeeded new scheme only to be succeeded by yet another new scheme. The Budget deficit began to grow more rapidly, and continued to grow, as expenditure outstripped revenue. So too did inflation. But surprisingly enough for the Whitlam Government, unemployment began also to increase alarmingly. The Whitlam Government turned to the Keynesian theory of providing increased government expenditure to combat growing unemployment. More and more public money was spent. Yet still unemployment continued to escalate. As a result of these policies so too did inflation, which ran away to the alarming figure of 17 per cent. The Keynesian theory, which had been regarded as a panacea for economic control, was shown to be wanting in the then and indeed present economic situation; that of high unemployment and high inflation. This was the climate in which the Fraser Government took office in 1 975. It was put to the new Government by Treasury and its other economic advisers that the main task facing the new Government was first to contain, and then to reduce, the rate of inflation. One of the first steps to achieving this would be to curtail government expenditure. With a reduction of inflation to reasonable levels, it was argued, business confidence would be restored and as business confidence returned jobs would be created and unemployment ultimately reduced. This policy was accepted by the Fraser Government, and has remained the basis of its economic policy during its four years in office. As a result the deficit, which had been estimated to reach $3.5 billion will, if the Department of the Treasury predictions are correct, be contained to $2. 1 billion in the present financial year. 
Even more cause for satisfaction is the reduction in the projected domestic deficit of $1.38 billion to $875m. This Budget outcome has been achieved despite a growth in Budget outlays of 9 per cent. It has been achieved despite the fact that the Government has, under this Budget, restored half yearly indexation of pensions, first introduced by the Fraser Government, I might add, and despite the fact that the 2.5 per cent income tax surcharge will be lifted as from 1 December 1979.- 
Admittedly the increased oil royalties received by the Government following the crude oil price increases by the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries, known as OPEC, greatly assisted the Government in not only reducing the deficit, but also enabled the Government to continue its social welfare policies of assisting those most in need. Australia produces 70 per cent of its own crude oil requirements. But if this oil were to be sold at below world parity prices the drain on Australia's limited supplies would soon become serious. The Government has, in addition, returned to the policy of previous Liberal Governments, taken away during the Labor years, of giving incentives to oil companies for further exploration within Australia. During the Whitlam years exploration within Australia was virtually nil. Australia, with its vast resources of energy components such as coal or uranium, is in a much better situation to face a projected energy crisis than most other Western nations. Solar energy is another source- at present largely unproven- which may well in the future contribute to Australia's energy reserves. But we are still very vulnerable. During a study tour of the United States of America which I made during the winter recess, I visited the Commonwealth Edison nuclear power station and a nuclear storage depot not far from Chicago. While I was in the United States  President  Carter made his statement on the energy crisis. In that statement he pointed out that in the future the United States would need to turn more and more to nuclear power. With the United States, the Soviet Union and other nations relying increasingly on nuclear power, we in Australia, who have something like only 20 per cent of the world's uranium supplies, can have little influence indeed on the world trend towards the use of nuclear energy. At its most recent conference in Adelaide, the Australian Labor Party showed a most unrealistic approach to nuclear power and the mining of Australia's supply of uranium. It made the unprecedented statement that a Labor Government would not honour any contracts which the present Government has entered into with other countries, despite the stringent safeguards and controls which this Government has imposed. 

 Mr Hawke, the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, stands head and shoulders above the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  and his Labor Party colleagues in his realistic and pragmatic approach to uranium mining in Australia. At the ACTU congress,  Mr Hawke  made a strong defence of his belief that Australian uranium should be mined. He said: 
For a lot of our friends on the Left, it is ali right to stop the economic development of the west by making uranium and electricity more expensive. 
He said that he did not see them doing anything about what was happening in communist countries. If a Liberal or Country Party parliamentarian had used those words he would have been accused of kicking the communist can.  Mr Hawke  said that he did not see why other countries like South Africa should grow rich from the sale of uranium while Australia turned its back and left uranium in the ground. 
I will come to how many jobs. I am just about to tell you about that, my friend. The result of the elections in South Australia recently was a direct protest by the people of that State against the stand taken by the former Labor Government there in refusing to allow development of three major mining contracts in that State which would have created 7,000 extra jobs within the State of South Australia and would have brought in $4,500m within 5 years. There cannot be and will not be any stop to uranium mining in Australia. The unions involved in the mining of uranium cannot afford to ban it and the men concerned would simply leave their unions if any attempt was made to close down the mines. The policy of the Leader of the Opposition and his left wing union colleagues is completely out of step with community feeling, as the South Australian election showed. Bob Hawke was right to stress the stupidity of bans which do not and cannot ban anythingjust as the original ban on the Newport power station in Victoria showed. The only effect of that ban was to hurt the ALP. The sooner the Labor Party takes the step of bringing  Mr Hawke  into this Parliament to give some realistic thinking and leadership to the Opposition, the better it will be not only for that party but also for the nation as a whole. 
Probably one of the most promising signs which this Budget has produced has been the reaction from the business community in general and the vast upturn which took place in the stock market. National share markets throughout Australia surged forward reaching their highest levels in six years following the Budget of the Treasurer  (Mr Howard).  Many of the effects of the Budget will not be apparent during the six months to the end of this year. The  2Vi  per cent reduction in taxes which does not take effect until 1 December cannot be expected to show any worthwhile improvement in consumer spending in the current half year. Oil price increases yet to flow through to the consumer price index will probably show a full percentage point increase in the CPI; the changes in health charges will undoubtedly cost the December CPI another 1 per cent. Thus for the next five or six months we will probably see the CPI increasing at an annual rate in excess of 1 1 per cent and this will no doubt cause pessimistic commentators, and our Labor Party Opposition, to make grave predictions. However, in the second half of the financial year, we should expect the March and June quarters of the CPI to moderate sharply, giving an overall rate of inflation for the year of a little over 9 per cent. Compared with the situation in other western countries, this is a very good result indeed. One commentator on the Budget has said: 
The basic assumption on which the Budget has been framed seems highly realistic and in one important respect, conservative. The assumption on which personal income tax receipts are based is that average weekly earnings will rise by only 9 per cent to 9'/i per cent which no one could suggest was even on the high side. 
He continued: 
If the Budget strategy is seen to be working in controlling money supply, and the rate of inflation, as the year unfolds, we suggest that the stock market may have continuing good times ahead of it, particularly in the energy sectors. 
If business is buoyant in this country, so too will the rate of employment improve. In contrast to the Government's Budget policies, the response by the Leader of the Opposition was vague and disappointing. One week to the day after the Treasurer introduced the Budget into this House, the Leader of the Opposition rose to reply. He said that a Labor Government would go further into the red. He said that it would increase the deficit; it would put a tax on capital. Government spending would be increased to reduce unemployment and employers would be paid by the Government to put on more staff- paid with taxpayers' funds. It was like watching a re-run of an old movie. 
It was a return to the old Whitlam policies, the same old story, the same old formula. The honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr West)  says it sounds like a re-run from an old movie. That is exactly what the speech of the Leader of the Opposition sounded like. I sat in my seat amazed. Had the Labor Party not learnt anything by its past mistakes? Then I recalled that the present Leader of the Opposition had been a senior Minister in the 
Whitlam Government and its one-time Treasurer. He had been an architect- along with others of his colleagues- of the Labor Party's past failed economic policies, and there he was that night trotting out the same old policies and theories once again. It was a replay of the old movie. Australia had experienced to its regret the folly of those policies before.  Mr Hayden  said that a Labor Government would support tax indexation, yet when tax indexation had been proposed by the Liberal and National parties when the Whitlam Government was in power, he had rejected it.  Mr Hayden  said that a Labor Government would wipe out tax avoidance. Yet when he had been Treasurer and in a position to do so, he had done nothing about tax avoidance. It was left to the Fraser Government when it came to office to take the first positive action against tax avoidance. When the Leader of the Opposition talks of taking Australia further into the red by increasing the deficit to finance Labor policies, he should remember that Thomas Jefferson said: 
The principle of spending money to be paid by posterity, under the name of funding, is but swindling futurity on a large scale. 
I would also remind the Leader of the Opposition of the words put into the mouth of  Mr Micawber  by Charles Dickens when Micawber was giving financial advice to the young David Copperfield. Micawber said: 
Income 20 shillings, expenditure 19 shillings- result happiness. 
Income 20 shillings, expenditure 21 shillings- result misery. 
That is the policy of the Hayden Opposition. Probably the main point of resemblance between the Leader of the Opposition and  Mr Micawber  is that they both believe apparently in waiting for something to turn up. If the Labor Party ever wishes to be accepted by the Australian people as a credible alternative government, it will have to come up with more credible economic policies than those related to taking Australia further into the red. The Whitlam Government proved to our sorrow that no government can spend its way out of unemployment. The Australian people are still suffering dearly for the economic mistakes of the last Labor Government. We cannot afford, as a nation or as a people, to walk down that road again. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the two measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
I also direct my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to the difficulties experienced last week at the Zimbabwe-Rhodesia constitutional conference in London over the Patriotic Front's reluctance to accept Britain's constitutional proposals. Does the Patriotic Front's acceptance of the British proposals mean that detailed discussions on transitional arrangements can now begin? Are proposals for Commonwealth observers included in these electoral arrangements? If such proposals are included, does the Australian Government stand ready to provide observers for such an election? 
-Is the amendment seconded? 
I will be very brief because the Government wishes to pass the Appropriation Bills tonight. I appreciate that it has a big job ahead of it in doing so. I would like to place on record my views on the Remuneration and Allowances Bill. Firstly, I am concerned that the Government is proposing to vary a decision that has been brought down by the Remuneration Tribunal. We say that we believe in the freedom of the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to bring down decisions, and that all concerned should abide by the decisions of that tribunal. I think that we as a government and as a parliament should abide by the decisions of the Tribunal which was set up to determine salaries and conditions for members of parliament. Once we start altering their decisions we will ultimately break down the whole  basis on which this Tribunal was set up. The Labor Party, to its credit, established this Tribunal. It is one of the things that was good which Labor did in its time in office. 
Secondly, I am concerned that the extra staff for the Opposition as recommended by the Tribunal is being reduced. I think any fair-minded Australian would agree with me. I am not talking about some of the people in the Press Gallery who are quite happy to get increases themselves but oppose better conditions for members of parliament. I suppose members of parliament are fair game to bait in respect of extra staff or enhanced conditions. We should seek to get the best out of members of parliament for the benefit of the parliament and our democratic system of government. One way this can be done is by giving to the Opposition facilities to obtain information, adequate staff and an equal right with Ministers to travel in Australia to put the Opposition's point of view. As was said earlier, Ministers have the Public Service behind them and all sorts of information is provided to them. But we want an Opposition that is provided with as much information as Ministers so that it can represent the alternative point of view to the Australian people. Therefore, I am not happy about the Government's restricting to such an extent the number of staff made available to assist the members of the Opposition front bench in their work. 
I can remember the days when back benchers had great difficulty in getting a car to go about their duties. We used to be able to get one car from the airport at the beginning of the week and one car to the airport at the end of the week. If a member had to go back to bis electorate in between times to carry out some of his electoral duties he had to get a taxi from the airport in his home State and pay for it himself. Fortunately, that is no longer the position. We do not want to return to those days. I do not want to say any more because, as I have said, the Government has a big program to get through today. But I do want to place on record that I am opposed to the Government varying a decision of the Tribunal which, after all, was set up to determine conditions and salaries for members of parliament and to take these matters out of the hands of the politicians themselves. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the two measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
-Can the Foreign Minister advise the House of the present position regarding the Zimbabwe-Rhodesia peace talks and the announcements made yesterday by the  President  of Zambia of the mobilisation of the Zambian forces? Can he bring the House up to date on the situation? 
-As it is now past the time provided for the grievance debate, Order of the Day No. 1 will not be called on. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the two measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
