 I ask the Prime Minister a question and I refer to the passage in the Governor-General's Speech in relation to the Government's intentions to introduce legislation to allow portability of pensions retrospective to 1st January 1970. Can the Prime Minister advise me whether Captain J. P. Stevenson, who has submitted his resignation to the Royal Australian Navy, will therefore be entitled to receive his pension entitlements? 
I congratulate the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  on the way in which he delivered his speech. I thought it was very good of him to refer as he did to his predecessor,  Mr Bridges-Maxwell,  for whom I, and I am sure everybody on this side of the House as well as on the other side, have a great respect. He was a hard-working member of Parliament and a conscientious one. Frequently when a man such as this loses his seat it is not through any fault of his; often it is because of the political climate that has been occasioned around him. He is lost to the country and, therefore, is not able to bring to us the benefits which otherwise he would have brought. I sometimes think it is difficult for members of Parliament, particularly at election time when we have the leaders of the political parties going out and competing with each other. We hope it is for the betterment of the people and the country, although frequently I doubt it. 1 think it is sometimes purely to obtain or retain power. It is not for the betterment of the people and the country. 
It is difficult for a conscientious member of Parliament, who discharges the job that he has to do in Canberra, to compete with those who are at home attending all the small functions, saying all the palatable things because they have no responsibility and who can promise anything because they do not have to perform. However, let me say that I enjoyed the speech of the honourable member for Robertson. The major portion of it was a description of the beauty of his electorate. Indeed his electorate sounds Idyllic. I would suggest to him, however, that it is usually considered bad form for a new member who is making his maiden speech to criticise any member from the other side of the House because that member, through courtesy, is not able to interject. I heard the honourable member refer to one newly elected Minister as a racist. That Minister did not have the right to rejoin nor did members on this side have the right to object or interject. I think that the honourable member for Robertson should reconsider his remarks. 
I should like to ask the honourable member a question, without supporting either the South African or the Rhodesian policy. When I first came to the Parliament about 10 years ago it was just after the Sharpeville incident and I remember listening to members from both sides of the House talking with authority about South Africa. I thought to myself what magnificent speeches they were making and what knowledgeable and great men they must be. I assure the honourable member that I have a different opinion today. Let it be said that I tried to find out which members had been to South Africa to see the problem confronting the people there. I discovered that only one member, from the Australian 
Country Party, had been to South Africa. The other honourable members had never been there to see the situation at first hand. 1 should like to see how the honourable member and his colleagues opposite who criticise everything haphazardly would react if they were confronted with situations that face others in the world. 
 I will accept that also, lt is approximately 10 years since I came into the Parliament; at times it seems like 100 years. When I was standing at the table with the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  waiting to be sworn in yesterday I looked across and saw the increased number of members on the Labor side. They looked very impressive - colourful, I might say, in certain instances. I thought to myself: 'There are the men who have stood and gained office and who now come to represent the people in their electorates'. I am not saying that this applies only to honourable members opposite because it applies to all members, but my main reference is to members of the Opposition. While prayers were being read I wondered to myself how many of the members opposite would stick to the things that they believed in; how many would stand and be counted for the things they believed in when they did not agree on a question of principle; how many would make their objections clear in this House. I wondered whether we would see, as usual, a 100% stand for the Labor Party's policy. How often have I and other members from this side gone from the house and said to a Labor member: 'You do not believe in what you were just saying' irrespective of whether it related to conscription, Vietnam or something else, and the rejoinder has been: 'No, but in my speech I did not say anything against it'. 
This is the Parliament of Australia. Honourable members opposite are representatives of the people and we are representatives of the people. The Parliament will work only as long as we realise that we have a responsibility, at times above Party allegiance, for the betterment of the people and the betterment of Australia. One thing that concerns me at this particular time is the way in which the publicity media - television and the Press - refers to the Parliament. It seems to me that according to television and the Press all we do is to elect leaders. It does not matter how important we may think the Parliament is or how important we may think we are - and I wonder whether we are important - the Press and television seem to make it a competition between the leader of one party and the leader of the other party. 
That has nothing to do with it. If the honourable member has not made his maiden speech I would suggest that he does not interject. Is what the publicity media say right? ls that what we wish? If only one man elects the Government what is the point of our having public meetings? What is the point of our having opinions? The strength, the power and the future of the Parliament in the decade of the 1970s could well be proven or could fall by the wayside according to the behaviour of all of us as private members. It is the strength of Parliament that each member has a voice, and that he has the right to disagree with his Party. If I disagree with the Government I can say so, and do say so. It seems to be fairly common for the Press to talk about divisions within the Government parties. Perhaps there are some disagreements, but let it be understood that we are allowed to disagree and, if we wish, to cross the floor of the House. This is done. But it has yet to be seen that anybody from the Opposition can do this. 
Captain Sam Benson, the former member for Batman, belonged to the Defend Australia Committee which endeavoured to see that Australia had sufficient defence services and that Australia's foreign affairs and defence policies were adequate. He was expelled from the Australian Labor Party. If one looks at what is happening today it seems to be accepted by members opposite as perfectly all right for the Victorian  President  of the Labor Party to chair a meeting of shop stewards and to call on our troops to mutiny. This, to me, is an extraordinary set of values. I cannot understand why the Government has not taken action in respect of this treachery, because treachery it is when troops are fighting abroad and calls are put forward for them to mutiny. We may well wonder where we are going, where we are being led by the minority in the Labor Party and their fellow travellers, those who are next on the spectrum, as the honourable member for Lalor mentioned. 
What is happening in this country? At the moment the Labor Party is strongly supporting the suggestion that the Government should give  Mr Burchett  a passport to travel abroad and to go to our ambassadors and foreign ambassadors who should give him every assistance. If honourable members read the passport they will see that this is what it provides. Members of the Labor Party are pressing for this. I went into the Parliamentary Library and I got as many books on Vietnam as I could. I was curious to find whether this  Mr Burchett  was mentioned. Each reference was to the Australian Communist author,  Mr Burchett,  who was speaking from behind the North Vietnam lines or speaking from Hanoi and North Korea. All I can say is that if we feel that he is the type of person we should be supporting, and not the many others who deserve support and have better cases and are in more need of support, I do not know where we are going. 
Regarding the call to mutiny that I mentioned, what are we doing about it? Where does the Labor Party stand? It seems that the Labor Party supports Burchett. The Labor Party supports the call for mutiny because the Victorian  President  of the Labor Party puts it forward. On the question of the breaking down of censorship, it appears that there are members opposite who would let everything in. I distinctly recall the Leader of the Opposition in the Victorian State House saying in respect to one play that was banned that he saw nothing wrong with the play, for after all he had read the same sort of language in a public convenience. I suggest to the Australian Labor Party that the general public does not wish to have its moral standards reduced to those of public conveniences. I think that the Labor Party should accept that suggestion. 
I now turn to the subject of the drug marihuana. What is the outlook in Australia with regard to drugs? We find there are pressure groups supported by the academics and by members of the Labor Party who are obviously the free thinkers who suggest that these things should be made free and open to everybody. What sort of nation will Australia become if the once great Labor Party now in opposition in this Parliament now propounds this kind of thing as a major issue? Without doubt I think there has to be a rethinking in this country. 
What is the policy of the Labor Party in respect to the Vietnam conflict? Its policy seems to have been consistently changed. Admittedly it now seems to have a slightly more unified effect, but is it the true policy of the Labor Party or is it the patched-up policy which was put forward at the last election and is to be put forward for the Senate election later this year? Does the Labor Party intend to pull out all our troops from Vietnam? Will the Labor Party assist South East Asia? What is the defence policy of the Labor Party? Its defence policy seems to me to be something that will certainly not give Australia strength and standing in the South East Asian region. I think its policy is to get out and leave it for the enemy, but I have no doubt that ultimately it will be able to make a compromise somewhere. 
There is so much that needs to be said in this Parliament that one will have to say much of it on other occasions. I think that the points mentioned by the Governor- General are essential; they were promised in the policy speech before the last election. The Governor-General said: 
This year we commemorate the discovery of Eastern Australia by Captain Cook, two hundred years ago in the past. 
This is what I want to say. He said: 
Now we turn our eyes to a future which, more than ever before, is rich with the promise of achievement if we have the will to achieve. 
As I said, the matters referred to in the Speech are essential. They will be expensive, but they are necessary. I wonder if in this decade the situation that we are in, where our major former Commonwealth partner is vacating the South East Asian region and where there is a possibility that the United States of America will withdraw from the area, does not constitute a challenge to this nation to stand on its own feeL I wonder if it is necessary each time that there is an election to promise more and more to the people merely to achieve power. I wonder if this is what the people of Australia want. 1 think that what the people of Australia want is to be told what we could be; to be told what our responsibilities are; to be told what the threats can mean for the future and what we have to do to prepare. 1 think that the people are even prepared to be told that we may have to make some sacrifices to achieve our objectives. I feel that this country can be a great nation. Aus.tralia faces a great challenge and has a great part to play in this part of the world, but I am not convinced by any of the political parties that we are aware of the true position at this time and are prepared to give the leadership which is necessary because of our sophistication and our industrialisation and because of the opportunities that we have had. I would like to think that someone will come forward and lead Australia into the 1970s, because much will depend on leadership. It is not just a matter of 'give me this and give me that'. I think that in any democracy it should be a matter of saying: 'What can I do and how can I help'. I would like to hear this feeling propounded more by those in power and by those in opposition who seek to gain power. 
Another matter for discussion is that of Commonwealth-State relations. 1 do not agree that this is just a matter of the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton),  the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  and the State Premiers meeting and distributing the available financial cake among the Commonwealth and States. I accept that the States have enormous problems, but I think that the question ultimately is one of how federation will work and how we as representatives of the people of Australia - not just the executive government - feel that this country should be run in the future. I was disappointed that the Premiers seemingly did not put forward a request for Federal aid for government schools. It is my firm belief that the Federal Government should give aid not only to private schools or for libraries and so on but for the development of government schools in expanding outer electorates and the inner city electorates. I am no longer able to argue that State governments are responsible for government schools and therefore aid is being given to private schools in the main - and I agree with the dual education system. It is not good to go to a school in my electorate, whether it be a high school or other type of school, and see a glorious library fully stocked with magnificent publications and then go to a small government primary school and find too many children in the forms, insufficient conveniences and inadequate facilities such as playing fields. 1 feel that the Premiers have to some extent made it difficult for us members of Parliament who were prepared to argue for a direct grant to these schools so as to bring them up to private school standards. The Premiers have accepted the proposition put forward by the Prime Minister so we can hardly say that we do not think it is sufficient. I hope that before long there will be in this House a debate on CommonwealthState relations and that these matters will be discussed by the whole Parliament. As I said before, and as has been mentioned by the honourable member for Bradfield in conversation outside this House, sometimes it appears that decisions are made and stated by the Executive outside Parliament without reference to Parliament and members learn of them by reading about them in the newspapers. It is wrong that we as members of Parliament should learn these things from the newspapers. These policies should be announced in the Parliament so that honourable members as representatives of the people of Australia can query the Executive there and then as to its intentions and its reasons, not 3 months later when the policy has been fixed and we as members of Parliament come into this House and find there is nothing that we can do about it. 
In conclusion 1 want to say that 1 have been in this Parliament for 10 years. When I came here I said that I was proud to be here. I am proud to be here today. I have seen some great, honest and courageous men in this place, but I feel that democracy will work and continue only as long as there are people who are prepared to query occasionally a decision of the Executive and stand up in this House and say: 'I represent the people, not just a party or a power combine.' I would like to think that in the future the rights of individuals will be important, that small things will be important. In the past, when I have raised some matter, some have said: 'Oh, it is only one person, let's fix it up later. It doesn't matter about him.' If this Parliament does not concern itself occasionally with the rights of individuals then ultimately individuals in Australia may not count. I apologise for the way in which I have moved from bough to bough in my speech but I mean the things I have said. If I do not remain in this Parliament 1 will have enjoyed being here; I hope, however, I will be here in future Parliaments, and I am afraid I will continue to be reasonably independent, but that will be my responsibility. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Whitlam)  adjourned. 
lt is always a pleasure to listen to the passion of the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  when he is espousing causes. Indeed, bis passion seems to be aroused mainly on questions that affect people like Wilfred Burchett, the Cuban issue and other issues that seem to relate, perhaps unintentionally, to people who, in my opinion and 1 think in the opinion of a large number of Australian people, are not necessarily friends of Australia or the Australian people. It is indeed interesting to listen to the passion of the honourable member. I liked, as we all did, his sincerity when he banged his book down and said that this country would be cleaner and better if we allowed this man in. 
I would suggest to the honourable member for Hunter that perhaps if he had consulted with men who had been prisoners of war in the Korean theatre when  Mr Burchett  went there - and the honourable member for Hunter implies that he was merely doing his duty as a foreign correspondent - he may get a different attitude. I was interested to hear  Mr Burchett  being interviewed in Australia. When it was suggested to him that his reception at the Brisbane airport had been fairly hot he said: "Why should I be impressed by 200 or 300 people? When 200 or 300 people gather together to protest, that does not mean that the Australian people are not with me. They are'. But when the honourable member for Hunter sees 50 or 100 people gathered together - and this is a failing also of the Australian Labor Party - he suggests that it is the whole Australian community protesting and that the whole Australian community supports him. 
The honourable member spoke about the rights of this man and said that this man should be allowed to come in here. But he did not say that when another Australian who is living, and has been living, openly in Rhodesia and not engaging with an enemy came to Australia. The Labor Party protested right, left and centre that this man should be prevented from coming into Australia. ls it only that a Communist gains the succour and support of the Labor Party and of the honourable member for Hunter? 
Let us consider the book that he banged on his desk. I went into the Parliamentary Library this morning looking for books in which Wilfred Burchett is mentioned. I have not time to refer to them all but I direct attention to the book 'Secret Search for Peace in Vietnam'. It is published by Random House and is not an Australian publication. I ask honourable members to see how many times Wilfred Burchett is listed in it. On some occasions he is referred to as being behind the North Vietnam line and on other occasions as being behind the North Korean line. He moves with freedom among and propounds the theories of the people who are fighting against our Australian boys. I have not heard our Australian soldiers get up and support what the honourable member for Hunter has said. I have many books on this subject, but I cannot quote from them all. It is of no use coming into this chamber with only the one book which suits ones purpose. Each one of these books which I have refers to a well known Communist Australian journalist behind the North Vietnam and North Korean lines. What is the Opposition asking? The Opposition is asking the Government to give a passport to a man who has supported the enemy both in this country and abroad and who has made charges not only against Australians but against United Nations forces. The Labor Party claims to support the United Nations when it suits the purposes of the Opposition. But let a Communist make an accusation and it knows which way it will run, and so do we. Indeed, the Opposition is asking us to give Burchett a passport which will allow him to go to any country in the world and to say: 'I am an Australian citizen supported by the Australian Government and under the Governor-General's signature and  Her  Majesty the Queen's signature it is asked that every assistance be given to me'. 
I have seen and spoken with officials of the Returned Services League of Australia. I have heard motions passed by both the Queensland and New South Wales branches of the RSL and 1 have heard of the letters that they have written to the Leader of the Opposition and to the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  and to the Press over which they have not received any publicity whatsoever. Believe me, they are offended because the Press on certain occasions and the television media are prepared to give this man every bit of publicity and coverage that is possible but when the returned soldiers of this country who are the ones who allow you gentlemen to sit and prance and parade in support of your Communist friends endeavour to put a viewpoint, some sections of the Press say that it is not of interest to the public so they will not print it. I suggest that the majority of the people in Australia agree that this man Burchett has put himself beyond the pale and I do not feel that he should be given an Australian passport. I think that Burchett has made his choice. He has made his bed. Let him lie in it. As to the people whom I represent and as far as the majority of Australians are concerned, I think that the Labor Party is speaking for the minority. 
No doubt the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  will give to me some of his high thoughts, but I would suggest to him to go out into the market place and ask the Australian people what they feel about Wilfred Burchett and his rights within Australia. Burchett has been permitted to come into Australia and he is allowed to go out of this country, and as far as T am concerned - and I think I speak for the majority of the people of Australia - he can go back behind the lines of North Vietnam, to Russia or the other circles in which he has chosen to move. He has made his choice. He has made his bed. Let him sleep in it. 
I desire to ask the Prime Minister a question. This is the first opportunity I have had to raise this matter. A few moments ago the Prime Minister mentioned a call to mutiny which was made at a meeting of certain shop stewards in Victoria, which was chaired by the Victorian  President  of the Australian Labor Party,  Mr G.  Crawford. I ask the Prime Minister: Was this call against the law of the land treason? If so, why was no action taken? If, in view of the answer to the honourable member for Boothby yesterday, this is a question of policy, could the Prime Minister explain to the House what the policy is? 
I had not intended to speak on this matter but I have listened with great interest to the debate and I must admit that the more I have listened to some honourable members speaking in favour of or against the amendment the more I have been convinced that there is certain justification for it. I find myself in a very difficult position. I do not necessarily enjoy voting for an amendment moved by the Opposition. I also find myself in the position that when I spoke last week on the Address-in-Reply debate I said that honourable members had a responsibility - perhaps I was pointing to the other side of the House - and I wondered whether on some such occasion honourable members opposite might accept that obligation. I find it difficult on a matter like this to make the challenge to them and yet sit here and not accept it myself. I listened to what the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  said. It may well have been hot air, as has been suggested, but I have some admiration for what he is doing and, I think, achieving. My opinion was swayed when I listened to the honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Robinson).  I am not saying this as a reflection against him, but he used the illustration of a school built at Darwin and then said it was wrong for the Labor Party to say that those who had planned the school had not taken into account the findings of the Select Committee on Aircraft Noise because the Committee went there only in February. I took that to mean that if somebody were to do something about the siting of aerodromes this would not happen in future because we would know in advance where the aerodromes were likely to be sited, or the possibilities of where they should be sited. 
The second illustration put forward was that if Mascot airport were rebuilt it would take 5, 10 or more years to build. Surely that is a good argument for starting now and not later, because if we are going to do nothing about it and if we are not going to give it any consideration until some time in the future, it seems to me that we will be putting off dealing with the situation until it gets worse and worse. 
 Mr Speaker,  my young friend who, I understand, has not yet made his maiden speech is one of the most verbose members that I have ever heard in this House. In regard to the amendment put forward by the Opposition I found, on reading it, that it was fairly innocuous. I think it serves a purpose. I read it as follows: 
At the end of sub-paragraph (c) of paragraph  1  add the following words: With which is associated the positioning and development of major airports. 
If I read the sub-paragraph in that way, it then states that a select committee be appointed to inquire into and report upon: 
The effects of aircraft noise on persons, property, institutions and communities wilh which is associated the positioning and development of major airports. 
I had some discussions in London and in Europe in 1967 on the question of airport noise. I hold the opinion that the end solution can only be achieved by deciding where in the future you are going to site your airports. If we do not do something now but allow housing to be established in the vicinity of proposed airport sites we will have exactly the same sort of problems in the future as we have at present. 
I turn to the proposed terms of reference of the Committee. Paragraph (a) relates to a definition of the major forms of noise associated with aircraft which cause complaint. The answer is jet engines and a Pygmalion noise which occurs every time aircraft take off and land. Paragraph (b) relates to the problems which emerge from the incidence of the various forms of aircraft noise.  I  suppose windows are broken, people cannot sleep and nervous conditions are caused which sometimes result in divorce proceedings. 1 do not think the Committee would have to spend much time investigating those matters, although it seems as though the Committee must be experiencing some difficulties because it has been in existence for a long time. Paragraph (c) relates to the effects of aircraft noise  0:1  persons, property, institutions and communities. One has only to look at the honourable members who represent electorates near airports to realise that they are walking examples of the effect of aircraft noise. Then we come to the units used for the measurement of aircraft noise and any special factors peculiar to Australia. I suppose it is important to inquire into the units used for the measurement of sound and so on. But the whole thing does not seem to me to be terribly effective anyway. Unless the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz),  who represents the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  in this Chamber, can convince me that there is a good reason why the amendment should not be accepted, I regret to say that although a supporter of the Government I feel I shall have to support the honourable member for Bradfield. If the Minister is able to convince me that the amendment should not be accepted because it is dangerous, ineffective or will impede the whole inquiry, I will be prepared to change my line of thinking. However, on what I have heard so far during the debate, I feel that in all conscience, although 1 do not have an aerodrome in my electorate and aircraft rarely fly over it, I must support the amendment because I am convinced that the amendment is innocuous and I can see no reason why the Government should not accept it. 
Today has been a day of some difficulty for me. I have spent a considerable time thinking and that has brought about considerable confusion. I want to raise one matter tonight and perhaps tomorrow I will again sink into my oblivion. Yesterday the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  asked the Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes)  a question about  Mr Wilfred  Burchett in relation to the Crimes Act. He asked whether certain things which had been done by this gentleman in Korea and North Vietnam were not covered by the Crimes Act and whether the Crimes Act has been amended or would be amended to provide that in future if such actions were carried out by anybody and were treasonable or considered treasonable against Australia such persons would be charged. He received an answer which, with respect to the Attorney-General, has confused me a little. I quote only part of that answer. The Attorney-General said: 
The question that the honourable gentleman has raised does involve a very general question of legislative policy. I am bound to say that the requirement as to the existence of a proclaimed enemy was introduced into the Crimes Act in  1960. There being a question of policy involved, all I can properly undertake to do is to take the matter into consideration and let the honourable member know in due course what my decision is. 
As you know,  Mr Speaker,  I have been endeavouring to attract your attention for a few days and today you kindly gave me the call at question time. I then asked the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  a question in relation to another matter concerning treason. I asked the Prime Minister, in relation to a call to mutiny made at a certain meeting of shop stewards in Victoria which was chaired by the  Chairman  of the Victorian Branch of the Australian Labor Party, whether, in fact, treason had been committed and, if so, why no action had been taken; and, in view of the answer given to the honourable member for Boothby by the Attorney-General relating to policy, whether the Prime Minister could advise me what the policy was. I am concerned about this matter because 1 am confused in my mind. I think a number of Australians are confused as to what the situation is in Australia in respect of such acts. 
In 1967 we passed a Bill which stopped university students collecting money to be sent to North Vietnam or the Vietcong. The penalties we prescribed for anybody undertaking this work were quite considerable. Section 3 of the Defence Force Protection Act of 1967 states: (1.) A person - 
who sends or takes money or other financial assistance or goods to; or 
who - 
contributes or gives money or goods to a person; 
collects or receives money or goods; or 
solicits the contributing or giving of money or goods, with a view to money or other financial assistance or goods being made available for the assistance of, or with a view to money or other financial assistance of goods being sent or taken to,- 
The section then lists various countries and organisations including the Democratic Republic of Vietnam and the Vietcong. The penalties are listed and provide, upon summary conviction, for a fine not exceeding $1,000 or imprisonment for a term not exceeding 1 year. The section lists the gradations of penalties. I emphasise that this section relates to the collecting of money by university students. 
We also had a debate in this House relating to stopping people trading with North Vietnam or sending tallow there, the inference being that this was assisting and aiding the enemy and should not be encouraged. I think that honourable members from both sides were in agreement on this matter. Indeed, I think it was raised by the Labor Party. However, it seems extraordinary to me that when Australian soldiers are fighting in South Vietnam - when we have regular servicemen and national servicemen fighting there, and when we have called them up to go and fight there - we have no provisions covering such calls as have been made by the shop stewards and, indeed, by a Professor D. Roebuck of one university, an Englishman who came to Australia and who reiterated the call for the Australian troops to lay down their arms and mutiny. Not only that, but a number of teachers in New South Wales publicly came out and put their names to the call for the Australian troops to mutiny. 
The Prime Minister made strong statements and said that the strongest action would be taken. He said it was disloyalty of the highest order to call upon troops to mutiny and that the Australian Government would see that the call did not succeed. I read his statement that action was to be taken to see that the call to mutiny did not succeed, so I want to know, with respect, exactly what this action is. Is it that the Government is going to strengthen the military police in Vietnam so that the call will not succeed? Or is it that the Government is going to prevent such calls being made here in the homeland as could be used effectively with the troops in Vietnam by certain sections to the detriment of our troops' morale and their outlook on what is happening at home? It does seem to me that we are passing laws and we are fighting a war, yet people in Australia can get up and make such pleas as a call to mutiny. However they may explain it, the clear facts are that Professor Roebuck and a small section of the teachers in New South Wales have made it plain that they want our troops to lay down their arms, to disobey orders and turn around in the face of the enemy and refuse to fight. 
I can imagine how the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  would have felt during the last war if he had been in a situation like this and had found that back at home, where he was hoping that people were acting in his best interest and trying to support him, trade unions and other sections were coming out blatantly and calling on the Australian troops to lay down their arms and mutiny against their officers and their country, and gaining the greatest coverage in the Press. I have waited, and many people have waited, to see what the Government is going to do about this situation. If the law is such that it does not cover this trespass or treason, surely the law should be amended. Surely it is time these things were prevented in Australia. 
Last weekend I was at a Returned Services League conference in New South Wales. The RSL there protested strongly that it had heard little from the Government. It had seen little action from the Government in support of the troops - in support of their comrades in South Vietnam. The RSL had written to the Prime Minister, to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and to various national newspapers. Indeed, representatives of the RSL had even gone to the national newspapers and asked them to print that conferences in New South Wales and Queensland had condemned strongly and violently this most atrocious and disloyal call for Australian troops to lay down their arms. But they got no publicity at all. They are wondering what is happening in this country when these things can happen and where no action appears to be taken. They wonder when somebody gets up and says: Well, this is a question of policy and it is a matter of what decision I make when I make my decision.' I am not criticising the Attorney-General for this because I can understand his problem, but surely to goodness if we expect men to go to Vietnam to fight for this country, each and every one of us, whether we agree with the war or whether we agree with the issues or not, has to see that they are supported. Anyone who has seen mutiny or has seen mutiny threatened in a situation where the morale of troops is lowered knows how terrifying it can be. Instead of saying that the troops should not mutiny, the Government should introduce a policy that will ensure that calls for mutiny in the future are outlawed in this country. 
1 found it most interesting to listen to the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren).  1 feel that the Parliament has moved along. In the last Parliament the honourable member was seated in the third row back; he is now on the front bench. He was regarded by some as a slightly radical member on the back bench, not necessarily propounding 100% Labor policy and having  a  number of his confreres disagreeing strongly with him. He is now propounding from the front bench. This may be considered progress by some, but not necessarily by me. I was interested to listen to him because, with calm modulation, he put the view that this should be an informed Parliament. He said that people have the right to know everything about what happens in relation to Our foreign affairs. He chided the Minister for External Affairs  (Mr McMahon)  for not having given the full story in respect of Cambodia. When he asked what was the reason for the present position in Cambodia 1 interjected and said that there were too many Communists there. I think that it was considerate of the Minister for External Affairs not to have upset the honourable member for Reid by saying that there had been an overthrow of the Communist supporters in Cambodia. We try to live at peace with the gentleman. 1 was a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee when the Labor Party refused to join it. At that time the right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell)  was Leader of the Opposition. He seemingly felt that the Foreign Affairs Committee would not do what he thought it should do. I think it would have done what he wanted it to do had he been Leader of the Government. But there is a great difference in our attitudes. However, the change came in the last Parliament and the Foreign Affairs Committee had on it various distinguished members of the Labor Party. 
Yes, to a degree. We had on the Foreign Affairs Committee the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley),  who was, indeed, its Vice-Chairman. He behaved immaculately, as did the other representatives from the Labor Party. But I must say - and I do not say it as a criticism  - that at that stage the Labor Party's members were rather distinctly of the right wing. As a matter of fact they were some of the nicest chaps a person could ever mix with. With the exception of the honourable member for Fremantle they never seemed to know much about foreign affairs, but it was a friendly group and we could discuss all aspects of foreign affairs. We kept no secrets from each other and. indeed, they had the right to go back to their Party meetings and advise their colleagues on foreign affairs without necessarily saying where they got their information. They were given confidential information. They were able to get up in the House, advised equally as well as members from this side, and discuss foreign affairs. But we have a different situation now and I do not support this amendment, nor will I support the one that I expect to be moved later. 1 know, and it has been made fairly obvious in the newspapers, that there has been a division on the other side - there has been a small contretemps. There are those who say: 'No. not so-and-so likely' and those who say: 'Let us be reasonable and intelligent about it'. Well, in the first instance, those who said: "Not so-and-so likely', won and the whole thing was delayed. Then came a different tack in the caucus. The result was that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  won the day on that occasion and it was agreed that the Labor Party should join the Foreign Affairs Committee. 
When I look at those who have been nominated as members of the Committee - and I say this with the greatest affection - I believe that there are some proposed now whom I would not trust with the most confidential information as to where I bought a postage stamp. I invite honourable members to look at their associations. They sign all the moratoriums. I was browsing through the Communist newspaper, the Tribune*. Whom did I see sitting there with his legs crossed elegantly and supporting the moratorium - the Communists were in attendance - but the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren). 
Quite frankly, I think that the whole tenor of the Foreign Affairs Committee will be very different in the future. The former Minister for External Affairs and the Government rightly agreed to and made certain amendments, as the honourable member for Fremantle said, which have made the Foreign Affairs Committee workable. These amendments have made it a good committee - up to this stage. The Opposition members of the Committee were allowed to learn facts and to return to their Party room and to the House to' debate foreign affairs on information which formerly they were not able to get. 
I return to the division in the Labor caucus. I refer to the left wing of the Labor Party. Honourable members who belong to the left wing pf the Labor Party used to be furtive about it but they are not any longer now that they have the numbers. I know now that the left wing has said that it will really roll the Leader of the Opposition. When its members attend the meetings of the Committee, what they are going to do is bring about such conditions in the Committee that the Labor members will walk out of the Committee. This action will not be to embarrass us. It will not be to learn anything about Cambodia. Indeed, it will be to embarrass the Leader of the Opposition. If honourable members opposite think that I am making this up, I can assure them- 
I have been waiting for my distinguished friend from the waterfront for the last 3 weeks. 1 can hardly restrain myself. When I heard him talk yesterday, 
I could see all the signs: 'All out', 'Sit down', 'Strike's on', 'Scabs' and so on. I would suggest to him, as my distinguished friend, the Minister for the Navy  (Mr Killen)  said: 'Engage your mind before you put your mouth into gear'. 
It was a member of the Australian Labor Party who told me of this little ploy that will be undertaken by the left wing of that Party. I welcomed as a member of the Government- 
If I were to tell the honourable member, the person concerned would be expelled within 20 seconds, if he did not have his throat cut. I can only say that I welcomed the Labor Party to the Foreign Affairs Committee. It was a good Foreign Affairs Committee. I give my distinguished but seedy friend from Fremantle respect for the job that he did. I would like to see him making the same fight now as he once professed to make in the past. I only hope that he has not lost his gumption, has not given up his outlook and is not prepared to go along with the left wing and the movements which it is undertaking now. That may be painful- 
Well, perhaps I may take time to grow up. I have not had the time in silence that the honourable member has had to think about it. The honourable member certainly has had a job to do with the Labor Party for a long time. It does appear to me at this time that the honourable member is neglecting it slightly. 
Let us remember also that the reports which have been drawn up by the Foreign Affairs Committee and its sub-committees have been tabled in the Parliament for the benefit of the Parliament. There have been quite a considerable number of them. I think that the Foreign Affairs Committee works; that it has been a good committee; and that those who were members of it previously from the Labor Party added to it. I hope that it will work as well in the future as it did in the past, but I doubt it very much indeed when I hear the honourable member for Reid and possibly the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  and some others whose outlooks on foreign affairs 1 do not necessarily think are for the benefit of the Australian people. 
Motion (by  Mr McMahon)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
1 ask the Minister for Labour and National Service a question with respect to the Vietnam Moratorium. In view of the fact that it is publicised that a large number of Federal Labor Party members of Parliament have signed support for the moratorium, as have also a large number of members of the Communist Party of Australia, could he give the reasons why the Trades Hall Council in Victoria, and I believe also those in Tasmania and New South Wales, have repudiated this call? Is it because of the association with the Communist Party? If not, what are the reasons? 

 - Mr Speaker-- 

Yes. I accept in entirety what the honourable member has said. What I did say was that I have not heard anything about the event. 1 am looking forward to hearing about it. 
I have great sympathy for the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Sherry).  I can imagine his confusion on a number of points: First, as to whether he will be allowed to make a contribution to this chamber; secondly, whether he will be allowed to represent his people; and thirdly, whether he will be allowed to do the things that I feel he genuinely wishes to do. I will be interested to see whether he is allowed to do the things that he may wish to do in this chamber. He will have to prove that he has the ability, courage and desire to do the things that I read into the sincerity of his voice. He said earlier: T could be doing something else'. I pay this compliment to him: He could have been an actor. As I listened to him I saw Henry V. I saw the scene by the fire before the battle. I thought he was magnificent and I think he could have made a success in some other sphere. But it is in his hands as to how he acts and as to whether he ever makes an independent speech in this chamber about the things in which he believes or whether he goes along as have successive Oppositions since I have been here with never a member moving out of line. There was one exception - the former honourable member for Batman. But what happened to him? He was expelled from the Australian Labor Party because he dared to support the defence of Australia. 
I sympathise also with the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  because he said: 'I, as a new member and we, as new members, come into this House and find it confusing.' I took a note of his words. He felt that the enthusiasm of new members was dampened and that they had little opportunity. He said that they had moved in their caucus meeting that the Opposition should bestir itself and act like an Opposition. I hope I do not do him wrong, but I thought he compared the enthusiasm of new members with the enthusiasm of old members. What both honourable members have said about this Parliament is true. It is not the duty of members on this side of the House to attack the Government all the time. We have some loyalty to our Party. We do try to improve things that we think are wrong. We try to improve them in the right area. But we have sat here and waited for members opposite to look like an Opposition. I will give the new members some credit if they can make it look like an Opposition because there has not been an effective Opposition in this House for 10 years or more. However this is not the issue at present. The present issue relates to the proceedings in this House last night. When he moved his censure motion the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  referred to me and to other honourable members on this side who may or may not be discontented. Yesterday I was gagged. I wanted to speak yesterday, but I was gagged. I did not like it and in my own arena I will take the action that I consider necessary to rectify it and see that it does not happen again if I can help it. 
I must give credit to the Leader of the House  (Mr Snedden)  and to the Government. Parliament is not a forum only for members opposite to introduce matters of public importance, half of which are futile. If they want to think of matters of public importance let them come to me. I will give them a couple that would send the Government spinning. Members opposite do not seem able to think of them. However, let us just think about this. The Government has to introduce legislation. It has to govern this country. This Parliament is not just to be a forum for the whims of the Leader of the Opposition and others who, every time they are in the think tank, say: 'What will we use for an urgency motion?' I will never forget an urgency motion that was introduced by the Opposition in the last Parliament or the one before to the effect that some member of the Senate should be given a staff car, that he should have the use of a limousine. Now, we see things around us that no doubt are urgent and that could be raised but when this came up I realised that half the time urgency motions were only introduced be cause the Government did not have anything on the programme and the Government Whip went across to the Opposition Whip and said: 'Can you please introduce something because we are not yet ready to introduce legislation?' I am sympathetic to the Opposition. I know what it must be like to be in Opposition for so long and to realise that the party with the majority is the government and that the Opposition has not been able to obtain the majority. But the rule of the Parliament and the rule of law and order - even though honourable members opposite may mock it - says that those with the numbers must control the programme of the House. 
No, not do what they like. The Opposition was concerned and upset in respect of the situation yesterday. I can understand that. I was also upset. I did not like any part of what took place from last night onwards and I do not like much of what has taken place today because what is a vital matter in my opinion, that is, the standing of the Parliament in the community, was last night placed in jeopardy. I accept that the Opposition had the right to protest. The honourable member who followed the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr McEwen)  referred to the incident which he was concerned in in 1940-something or other. The fact is that at the end of the incident the honourable member left the chamber when so ordered. Never before have I heard of a scene such as the one I witnessed last night, when hooliganism came into the chamber. I am not saying whether the Opposition had rights or whether it did not, but last night we saw in this Parliament what we are being encouraged to see in our universities by some sections only, what we are starting to see in some of our courts by some sections only, and it is something that should concern every member of this Parliament whether he be Labor or Liberal. I think that in the amendment to this censure motion we are flattering the Leader of the Opposition because on my observation I do not give him the credit for originating it. I do not give him credit for knowing what was going to happen and, indeed, it may well have been conceived but I will guarantee that he did not originate it. It may well be denied by the Opposition, but I am told by a member of its caucus- 
Exactly, but the honourable member would like to block it off. 
He would not last for a second. I am told that the Leader of the Opposition in caucus said: 'I arranged it. I organised it. Was it not a success?' Surely if this is the action of a leader of a party, if this is what he wished to achieve last night and this is what he organised, how can we or how can the public, however dissatisfied it may be with the Government at the moment, accept this type of behaviour in a parliament as that of the alternative government of Australia. I was amazed to listen to the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley),  for whom I have had some respect, say the things that he said. I know what he feels in his heart. I know what the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  feels in his heart. I know what the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  feels in his heart. These men have been fighters in this Parliament. These men were tough Opposition operators in their heyday before they became tired and dejected. But whatever they did in the House they did within the Standing Orders and within the dignity of Parliament. What concerns me more than anything else is that if what went on last night, which the Leader of the Opposition claims to have organised, is to be the standard in the Parliament in future this Parliament and democracy are finished. I am not saying democracy is perfect in this country. Democracy is slow; it is cumbersome. People have to fight against it. 
But let us look at the situation last night. If after the honourable member for Wills was named honourable members opposite felt they had to make a protest there was one protest they could make. They could have walked out with him and that would have figured in the newspapers of this country perhaps with more credit to them than they had. But when they all got up, when they all ignored the Speaker's cry for order, and when they had the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  and the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  front bench members, standing there like whoever it was on the bridge and looking like a pair of apes, they lowered the dignity of the whole Labor Party and the Parliament. I know some honourable members opposite would not agree with me because the standard of last night would be the standard they have come from. I think it is a pity that in this Parliament, however inadequate it may be, we reached that stage. I think the Labor Party will regret it. 
I come back to the point. What did we have? I do not think for a minute that the Leader of the Opposition was the responsible party. For the first time in open Parliament we had the sign that the left wing of the Party had taken over and the Leader of the Opposition, who is a man of some education and background, realised that unless he got with it he was finished. We heard about these new members before they came here. We heard who was on the left and who was on the right. The Leader of the Opposition did not like the redistribution. He knew he would get the left wing members. We heard about them and now we see them here in force. 
I would. After last night I would believe anything about the Leader of the Opposition and the Labor Party. Let us now work out what the situation is. The Leader of the Opposition has given the warning, as has the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, that if there is not in this House the situation that they want we will have a repetition of this in the future. The warning was given for the  Speaker,  the warning has been given to the Government and the warning has been given to the people. Demonstration I accept and I think the Australian people accept it. We have heard references to the farmers. They were making a legitimate demonstration in a legitimate way having asked for and received approval to hold that march. Nobody objected to that. But what we saw last night, as was put to me by one member of the Labor Party in this place, was complete yahoo-ism and hooliganism, which has never been seen here in the roughest, toughest days of politics and I hope we will never see again. 
; I have great sympathy for the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  because never have 1 heard a man misrepresented more In any sphere. There is never a newspaper that quotes him correctly; there is never anything that is accurate about him. This is a reason for considerable sympathy. I must admit that I do not care whether the Communist was swinging from the chandeliers, was on the platform or on the floor. The point is: What did the Communist say, what did the honourable member for Lalor say and what was the common policy they were propounding? That is what we and the people would be more interested to know. The honourable member for Lalor is an expert in taking points of order. Whereas other people who unfortunately have not got his ability appear to be restricted to 2 or 3 words, he is able to speak for 5 minutes on an adjournment debate. He seems to be able to do this and always have the end word. He started off referring to me and the Prime Minister. He made reference to something which I had withdrawn earlier. He then enlarged on it and again said that during this particular instance he had been out having tea with one of bis close and intimate friends and only came into the House at some later time for a period of 7 minutes. If he likes to check the newspapers he will find that they described who sat in the seat opposite the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  and his name is amongst them. Obviously he was misreported again. 
I am concerned about the honourable member for Lalor. I cannot suggest, nor would I suggest, that he is going round the bend, but I would suggest that he has been through a fairly traumatic experience just recently and we all sympathise greatly with him. I would like to feel that he was getting the justice to which he is entitled. I understand that a man was charged with a felonious offence which was committed against him. I saw only one small 3 line paragraph in the paper that this gentleman did not appear when he was called before the court. 1 have not heard anything more since then and I would like confirmation of what has happened. I would like to feel that the police and the justice of this country were taking all steps possible to find this man and bring him to justice so that the harm he has done to the honourable member for Lalor may be rectified. 
As the honourable member for Lalor knows, there are some unfortunate remarks and suggestions going around which concern me and which, I think, concern him. 
This man should be brought to justice. 1 am anxiously waiting for information about the reason why the party was held and who was at the party at the time. 1 believe that this is something that the man in question can give information about and the police can confirm. I forgive the honourable member for Lalor for all his indiscretions and for his actions over the last day or so because obviously 1 do not think he is well. 

 Dr J. F. CAIRNS (Lalor) -  Mr Speaker- 
I would like to assure the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J, F. Cairns)  that as far as I am concerned, and as far as anything I can do to influence the people of Australia is concerned, his speech most certainly will not be taken with anything but seriousness. I would start by saying to this Parliament and to members of the Australian Labor Party, and mainly to the people of Australia, that they should get a copy of what the honourable member had to say and analyse it. The honourable member said, as he said on television tonight, that the Parliament is a hollow ritual. He said that people have the right to take matters into their own hands and implied that laws were made to be broken and that what one cannot win in the ballot box one is entitled to take by violence and anarchy. Let him deny this as he wishes. 1 do not intend to reply to the honourable member for Lalor because I treat with contempt what . he said. What concerns me more is what was said by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  because to any student who over the years has studied the statements of he Leader of the Opposition in respect to the Vicorian ALP Executive and Communist influences on certain sections, his speech tonight was a very new rendition. However, we understand it. It was a capitualation 
What has been done? It was the duty of the Government to make the statement that we are discussing tonight so that the people can understand as best they may wish all the facts and circumstances of this Vietnam Moratorium Campaign. The Government does not wish to compel anybody, but it has a responsibility to let the people know what the facts are. If I make one criticism, it is because I think it would have been better to have made these facts known earlier before innocent people who believe that this is a genuine protest and who believe there is no underlying importance to it or underlying usage being made of it, signed the moratorium document. I think the Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes)  is wasting his time when he asks Labor members who have signed to dissociate themselves from the Campaign. They are where they want to be; they are with the people they know. Frankly, as far as I am concerned, they can stay there. However, I would like to read to the House the shrewd amendment that was moved by the Leader of he Opposition. The amendment reads: 
That the following words be added to the motion: and this House (a) affirms the right of peaceful demonstration and the right of Australian people to express opposition to the war in Vietnam, as do the great majority of governments and peoples in the world, . . .' 
The Attorney-General said in his statement earlier today: 
I accept that many of those citizens object in good faith . . . They are fully entitled to express their opinions upon these great issues and fully entitled, if they can, to persuade others, including a majority of the electorate or of the Parliament . . . 
We admit that they have the right and we will fight for it; but they do not have the right to break the laws of this country, as has been the cry of the honourable member for Lalor. Of course, he always claims a week later that he was misunderstood by the Press. So the first point of the amendment is out because, as the AttorneyGeneral has already said this in his statement, we accept this point. 
The second point of the Opposition's amendment is that this House: supports efforts by the United States Government to achieve disengagement from the war . . . 
We support the endeavours of the United States Government to reach a peaceful settlement. I have not heard one word from the Opposition about the offers made by President Johnson and by President Nixon to negotiate for peace anywhere, to stop the bombing and to include the National Liberation Front in negotiations in an endeavour to obtain peace. Not one word of commendation comes from the Labor Party or from the so called peace group which it waltzes with on every occasion. The next point of the Opposition's amendment is that this House: declares this disengagement to be an urgent need of humanity. 
We agree on that. So in fact there is nothing in the amendment that has not been agreed to by the Government. But let the Leader of the Opposition bring to me or bring to this House any speech made by any member of the Labor Party in which that member when talking of disengagement, has mentioned the North Vietnamese, or mentioned the fact that the North Vietnamese are in Laos and Cambodia. 
The amendment is a hollow mockery when one looks at the words that have been so very skilfully contrived by the Moratorium organisers. They always talk about foreign troops but never mention the North Vietnamese. So what they in fact say is that the Communists, the foreign troops from North Vietnam, are entitled to be in South Vietnam. A number of people in Australia think not and the South Vietnamese think not, but what the Opposition is suggesting and supporting is the sell-out of the South Vietnamese. Let me read from the 'Tribune' of 1st April  1970,  in which was published an article headed 'Thanks for efforts against war:' Viet CP'. The 'CP' does not stand for Country Party; it stands for Communist Party. 
It is the Communist 'Tribune'. It says this: 
Sydney: The Vietnam Workers' Party, in its message to last weekend's 22nd Congress of the Communist Party of Australia, expressed the sincere thanks' of the Vietnamese people to the party and the Australian people for their efforts to secure the withdrawal of Australian forces from Vietnam and to end the Australian policy of tailing after the US in the Vietnam aggression. 
That is thanks that the honourable gentlemen opposite well deserve and it is an expression of thanks that the honourable member for Lalor should frame and hang in his drawing room. When he stands with his Communist friends - he spends half his time arguing that he does not stand with them - when he denies any association with them and so on, let him well remember that. But this is not necessarily the most important point. The first thought should be: What do the people of this country want? Do they want a demonstration on a Friday afternoon in the middle of Bourke Street, outside Myers as the honourable member for Lalor says, when it is full of women and children who are doing their shopping and who may well in this way help to create the impression that the crowd is swelled by supporters? Is it not true that if such a group as the Students for a Democratic Society should endeavour to blockade the street, as has been suggested, there will be panic? Will the honourable member for Lalor then take responsibility for what may occur? He was not prepared during his television appearance tonight to take much responsibility for anything. 
-I can undestand that. Who is supporting this Moratorium? It is being supported by  68  weak-minded members of the Labor Party. A small number of members have refused to sign a document giving their support to it, and they have been named. One member wrote his reasons. He said that while not agreeing with the Vietnam war he could not go along with the Moratorium because he felt that if we pulled out of Vietnam the massacre, murder and bloodshed would be even greater. I give him my congratulations. He is a new member of Parliament and I only wished to God that he could stand in this House and state what he wrote. I do not ask him to do that because I know what would happen. 
Let me revert to what the Leader of the Opposition said. He said that he had not signed the document. I bet he did not. He will appear at the demonstration outside Parliament House. That will be courageous indeed. But let us look at what is happening in Victoria and at the headlines in the newspaper this morning. The honourable member for Lalor has been down whipping up the trade unions.  Mr Stone,  the Secretary of the Trades Hall Council, has told him to take his cotton picking fingers out of it and to leave decent Labor men and decent unionists alone. Furthermore, an analysis of what he said shows that he was addressing the rebel group of the Trades Hall Council, the rebel unionists, the same people who were involved in the O'Shea case, the same people who put on that innocent little protest outside the Industrial Court, the same people who wanted to tip over the police car, and the same people who wanted to press onto the police. These are the representatives that this man wants to come with him. 
I give  Mr Stone  and the decent Labor people of this country credit. There may be many who do not agree with the war in Vietnam. This is their right, but many people have shown publicly, as has the Trades Hall Council in New South Wales and Tasmania, that they will not be involved in Communist front organisations, Communist techniques and the techniques of my friend from Lalor. But let us go back to what the Leader of the Opposition has said. He said today that there is nothing to stop members of his Party giving their support to the Vietnam Moratorium. He encourages it. He thinks it is real beaut. He says: 'I am a radical at last. Hurrah, hurrah!' But he said: 'There is only one thing which stops a member of my Party joining a group and that is if it is a proscribed organisation*. I thought that there was once a section in the rules of the Australian Labor Party - I doubt whether there is now - that stated that members could not appear on the same platform as a Communist. I accept that this is no longer so. 
The honourable member for Lalor has given his reasons and the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  has given his reasons why this is so, but the people of this country want to know and should know this. 
What are the organisations proscribed by the Labor Party? One such organisation is the Defend Australia League, which was set up to see that Australia had defence. The only person that I know of who has been expelled from the Labor Party in the last 10 years is the former honourable member for Batman, who stood up for the defence of Australia and who joined the Defend Australia League. 1 take it that it is now all right for a Labor member to speak from the same platform as a Communist, but do not let any member of the Australian Labor Party join any organisation that may talk about defending Australia. Before coming back to this question of violence I want to make one further point. Nobody has denied that this Moratorium Campaign has been inspired by the Australian and New Zealand Congress for International Cooperation and Disarmament, that  Mr Goldbloom  is up in front and that Reverend Hartley and Reverend Dickie and others are connected with it. Is it not a fact that the Leader of the Opposition has said that it is not a proscribed organisation? But is not the World Peace Council proscribed by the British Labor Party? Is not this the great difference between the party which calls itself the Australian Labor Party and the great United Kingdom Labour Party? I can understand why the World Peace Council is not proscribed in Australia. We have had a full dose of the reasons today. 
Let me go further. The Reverend Hartley, who is a councillor in the City of Prahran and is on the organising committee of the Moratorium, wrote to the Town Clerk of the Prahran Council on 16th March 1970 and said: 
Dear  Mr Lucas, 
I have been asked to represent Australia at a Presidential meeting of the World Council of Peace. 
That is the organisation behind this Moratorium. He continued: 
On this occasion the Presidential meeting will be held in Moscow from the 2nd to 5tb of April. 
And he will be back in time for the Moratorium. Let us now consider the question of this peaceful demonstration, and whether it will be violent. I refer honourable members to a circular put out by Councillor Fred Farrall, of the City of Prahran, Reverend Hartley and others. I quote one paragraph as follows: 
The Vietnam Moratorium Committee's Victorian Headquarters has asked groups and individuals to vigorously participate with whatever slogans and forms of protest they feel appropriate to end the war in Vietnam. This public meeting will elect a committee- 
This will be a committee to organise the demonstration. I emphasise the words 'whatever forms of protest' they may wish. Indeed, it is interesting to read articles in the Tribune' as well as Press reports of  Dr Cairns's  statements, which he claims have been wrongly reported. The 'Sun', which was accused of having wrongly reported him, said that he did not ring and complain until 10 days later, which was after he saw the Press report and after he had got his message over to those who wanted to see that message. Then he started to move and manoeuvre, and there is no man of greater ability than he is in this regard. I draw attention to a statement by the National Executive of the Communist Party of Australia issued on 28th January 1970 and published in the 'Tribune' of 4th February 1970. The statement contains these words: 
Communists believe that the only basis for the required mass political expression is one which is non-exclusive in character, where every group and organisation can be represented in decisionmaking, and make its own contribution. 
We don't want a Moratorium limited to traditional peace marches to the exclusion of more militant expressions of opposition. 
It is the duty of the Minister and of the Government to put before the people of Australia the facts, because in the end the judges are the people themselves. They have to make their decision no matter how earnestly, how honestly and how strongly they may desire peace in Vietnam. This desire is shared by all, but the people must ask themselves whether this is a genuine protest and whether it is intended to be violent or non-violent, bearing in mind that it will be held in Melbourne on a Friday afternoon, the most busy shopping afternoon, in the busiest block, when school children, young children and women will be present. They must ask themselves how far they are prepared to go. I know how far the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  would go, so there is no need for him to say anything. 
I should like members of the Opposition, the Peace Corps and the Corns to show rae where in any of the discussions on peace they have made any suggestion that the North Vietnamese should retire from South Vietnam and that the South Vietnamese should be given a chance to live in peace. If the North Vietnamese got out, and the Americans got out and the allies got out there may be peace. But the Opposition's song has only one side to it. Members opposite cannot see the other side. They ignore, and never speak about, what happened in Hue and the massacres that have occurred. It seems to be of no interest to them that people have been killed. I am sure it is of interest to some members of the Labor Party and to a large number of trade unionists in Australia. It is of interest to the silent majority of Australians who can be nothing but disgusted by what has now emerged, not by inference or suggestion but from an admission tonight by the honourable member for Lalor, from a statement on television by the honourable member for Reid and from what was said by the Leader of the Opposition. 
People have a right to protest in Australia but they do not have the right to place in jeopardy the lives of other people or to break the law. When one clown finds he has not sufficient influence to sway the people of Australia he calls on his supporters to break the law. He knows what he intends. He knows what some hotheads may well do but he says: 'No, the police are to blame'. Yet there are usually 300 police against 4,000 demonstrators. I am confident that the genuine people of Australia, whatever their sympathies, will repudiate this Moratorium which is hypocritical and is intended only to strengthen the Communists in North Vietnam and their underlings. 
The amendment moved by the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  is quite extraordinary. It is extraordinary, firstly, because in the last week or so members of the Opposition have claimed that they are not given sufficient time to debate legislation and other matters. They say that the House is undemocratic and have voiced various other complaints. Indeed, the honourable member for Lalor claimed that it was because of the action taken by some members of the Opposition last week that the Government has agreed to introduce the changed hours of sitting. I think the speech of the honourable member for Lalor was effectively made from his point of view. Without being unfair, I think he put his view very fairly. But I believe that others who have an opposing view are equally entitled to put their views. I query the claim that the glorious achievement of last week - it will probably go down as the 4th July of the Labor Party, or some such thing - brought about this suggested change of hours. I am talking about the occasion on which the Labor Party took over the Speaker's chair and made a mockery of Parliament. But let that be as it may. 
The Government has agreed, not only because of pressures from the Opposition - I can assure honourable members opposite that there are people on this side of the House who were sympathetic - to allow the House to sit longer. Indeed, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  came into this House as a reasonable man and said that he accepted this arrangement on behalf of the Labor Party. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  came into the House, had a chat with the  Deputy  Leader and left. So I take it that the Labor Party accepts what has been suggested by the Government and we all know that there has been a conference over it. But only a section of the Labor Party - as suggested by the honourable member for Lalor - is putting forward this amendment. 
Maybe not, but why is it that the Leader or the  Deputy  Leader of the Labor Party did not move the amendment? They do not suggest that it has their great support. Perhaps they would now say that it has. I would like to ask some of the older members of the Parliament who, as I mentioned last week, respect the Parliament, whether they suggest, as the honourable member for Lalor has - I hope to say something more about this later - that there may be civil disobedience at the gathering in Melbourne on 8th May. The honourable member for Lalor has called for the breaking of laws where necessary and has said that there may be some occupation of the streets. He suggests that the Parliament of this country should declare a holiday so that he and his confreres who wish to do so may attend this gathering. He is asking the Australian Parliament in fact to declare a holiday to make it easier for him and others to break the law of this country and to join the Moratorium. It is the honourable member's right if he wants to join the Moratorium. I know of no-one in this Parliament who is anxious to retain him here. The honourable member has the whole day and it is his responsibility and decision as to where he wants to be. But surely the Parliament has the responsibility to say whether the interests of the majority of the people of Australia should take precedence over the organisation which proposes to gather in the streets. Do not let him think for a minute that he is speaking for the majority of the people of Australia when he says that the people must be allowed to break the law; when, adopting an heroic attitude, he tells us how long he is prepared to spend in prison. He is not talking for the majority.  Mr Stone  of the Trades Hall Council and the decent unionists in Victoria have repudiated him. The Trades Hall Council of Tasmania has repudiated him. The Trades Hall Council of New South Wales has repudiated him. The Federated Ironworkers' Association has repudiated him and has told him that he has no right or justification to call for strikes on that day. When this man talks about democracy, what does he mean? To me and, I think, to the majority of people, democracy means that when a fair and just election has been held - in which the people have been able to vote freely - and the result has been obtained, the Government is allowed to govern. Unless a law is an unjust law in the minds of the majority of people, it should be accepted. Unless it is morally wrong, or unless some very grave reason is involved, it should be accepted. 
The majority of people, as far as 1 am concerned, and I hope that that situation will continue. That is not the outlook of the honourable gentleman.  His  outlook, as I said the other night, is that what one cannot gain in the ballot box one will get by breaking the law. I think his philosophy should be brought home strongly to the people. The important question is not whether we think some people are a pack of Corns, whether certain people are collaborating with a pack of Corns or whether or not Russian ships are off the Australian coast. The people must make their own assessment as to what is happening because the final decision must be theirs. 
The honourable gentleman spoke about democracy. The definition of democracy should be the genuine one used in democratic countries. Democratic countries face grave problems. What is the honourable gentleman's interpretation of democracy?  His  interpretation is the same as that of the Communists. We know that definition. The Communists believe they should get into a country and use all the freedoms of democracy - free speech, free gathering, free association and no censorship - to obtain their ends until the country is brought to its knees. When that has been achieved and when the people are confused that is the time when the Communist objective has been achieved. Australia is a democratic country. We are allowed free association, free gathering, free religion and all the things that we, as the people of Australia, are proud of. I invite honourable members opposite to name any of the other countries that they admire so much in which these freedoms are permitted. If they did that, I would be more impressed than I am by their ravings and by their moralising which, to me, will not bring about democracy as I understand it. I want my children to live in a democracy. I think the Australian people want this. Honourable members opposite have the right at every election to criticise the laws. They do it. They call meetings at the Richmond Town Hall and at other places. 
 I point out that the honourable member for Lalor had 20 minutes in which to put his propaganda, but 1 have only 10 minutes. I accept that,  Mr Speaker,  although to me the position seems to be a rather extraordinary one. I am endeavouring to explain why the House should sit on 8th May and to answer the arguments that the honourable gentleman advanced as to why it should not. lt is democratic that Parliament should sit for the welfare, concern and care of the majority of our people. To suggest that it should not sit on 8th May because somebody wants to indulge in civil disobedience is, 1 think, quite extraordinary. 1 hope the people will judge and will accept what they think is the responsible attitude. The honourable member for Lalor asked why the Friday sittings could not start on 15th May. I ask why they cannot start tomorrow. The Friday sittings should start tomorrow. Would the honourable gentleman then suggest that such sittings were inten tionally instituted because the Moratorium Campaign starts on 8th May? I look at this Parliament and I too, as well as the honourable member for Lalor, wonder how long democracy will last in this country and in this Parliament. I recall a speech made by Lord Morrison, a distinguished former Minister of the British Labour Party, who said that if the Labour Party allowed the Communists to join its ranks, did not oppose them and instead collaborated with them and if members of the Labour Party in the United Kingdom were associated with and supported the Communist Party that would be the day when democracy would finish because from there on there would be a forum in Parliament for the views of those who wished to end the Parliament. 
I suggest that the honourable member for Lalor, the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  and their 78 cohorts can go to the Moratorium and can take part in their civil disobedience. As far as I am concerned and, I hope, so far as this Party and the Government are concerned, Parliament will continue to run as it should. The honourable member for Lalor claims to have greater powers concerning the Moratorium than the might of Peking and Moscow. He says 'I and I alone - the Messiah - have brought about certain states of affairs'. If the honourable gentleman attends the Moratorium and if the result is not what he wants - if the result is tragic, as I hope it will not be - I hope he is man enough to admit in this House after 8th May that the responsibility was his. 
 It was not my intention to speak this evening in the adjournment debate. However, I would suggest to the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  that whilst it is probable that few courtesies are left in this House it is the usual practice to give notice to an honourable member when you intend to attack him or speak about him. I appreciate that the honourable member is newly arrived and 1 am sure that it was not intentional that the usual courtesies were not extended by him tonight. I do concern myself with these things. I think it is a good thing that such practices are followed because 1 believe that the adjournment debate is important, lt gives us the right to raise any matter we wish to raise, lt has worked well because honourable members on both sides have always observed the accepted procedures. 
The matters raised by the honourable member for Robertson were amusing. I thought that it was one of the best speeches he has made since he has been in this House. But the point is that he did not write it. I think he reads beautifully. Not only does he read beautifully,  Mr Speaker,  but I think he looks beautiful. When he rose to speak he looked sartorially elegant. Last week he made a statement about the boys in the band. Frankly I thought he looked first rate. 1 would point out to the honourable member that as far as I am concerned this gentleman in the electorate of the honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison)  has a perfect right to his opinion. A member of the Liberal Party is entitled to make such a statement. All I can say is that if- 
If the honourable member for Robertson has been in the Labor Party for long he will be aware of what happened in Victoria last year. I think there were 100 or more members of the Party who disagreed with the executive or some member of the Party and they were all expelled overnight. 
 Mr Speaker,  if I am incorrect about this statement, tomorrow night 1 will bring into the House the minutes of the Labor Party executive. 
I realise now,  Mr Speaker,  that because of a particular occasion tomorrow night there will not be an adjournment debate and the House is not sitting next week. But 1 assure the honourable member for Robertson that I am prepared to bring the document into the House during the first week that the Parliament resumes. I assure him that I have perused it and I am referring to one of the official paragraphs in this statement from the State executive. I think that there were 3 people, expelled in this instance, who decided to appeal to a court. I think the document made it fairly clear that the Labor Party allowed no right of appeal to any court of law. Such a step is not applicable to the Labor Party organisation. I will bring the minutes into the House for the benefit of the honourable member. Some honourable member interjects and suggests that there may be a kangaroo court. That may be so. 
I also draw the attention of the honourable member for Robertson to the case of the former honourable member for Batman, a distinguished member of the Labor Parts'. I suggest to the honourable member for Robertson that this man had greater and longer membership than he has. I would think that he served the Labor Party more efficiently and effectively than the honourable member for Robertson has. The former honourable member for Batman was raised from humble beginnings. He joined and served the Labor Party but could not abide the unfortunate side issues which seem to be involved with Labor Party membership. This honourable gentleman of whom I speak decided on one occasion to join an organisation concerned with the defence of Australia. Such a step obviously is now taboo so far as the Labor Party is concerned. He was expelled immediately. 
I do not suggest that thus young 22-year- old gentleman who was accorded almost a full page in the 'Australian' should be expelled because, as I say, he is entitled to his opinion. But it amazes me, in view of the events happening throughout the world and the problems facing Australia, that a great newspaper can devote a full page to an article on a 22-year-old gentleman's opinion. It may be that this view is shared generally; I do not know. On the weekend before last I was in Queensland addressing the Young Liberals and I found that in Queensland they do not seem to share this opinion. In Victoria they do not seem to share this opinion. But this one young gentleman who has expressed this view has had his name in the newspaper. Good luck to him. I think he could be a potential member of the Australian Labor Pary. I think the Labor Party deserves him. He should get on well with the honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison)  because I think he could be of a similar type. I suggest to honourable members that they hasten and lose no time in getting him as a member. 
Honourable members opposite and this young gentleman may think that there is no concern in Australia about what is taking place. The Opposition and this gentleman have accused me of talking about Communism, anarchism, Bolshevism, or whatever it might be, but I suggest that they should not become lulled into too much of a sense of security and think that there are not a large number of people who are concerned about what is happening, what has happened and what will happen. There are people who realise that the time is coming closer when we in Australia may well have to stand on our own and when we may well be concerned about the internal morale of this country. Yesterday I read a book written by an Australian Army major whom I shall not quote verbatim but who ended by saying that ultimately we and the Americans may have got out of Vietnam, but there is no man, whatever his feeling, whether he approves or disapproves as an Australian or an American - I take this to myself as an Australian - who will not somewhere in his mind carry a moral issue as to whether he did the right or the wrong thing. Only time will prove this. I think also that the reaction of other nations close to us will be of great importance to the Australian people. 
I do not intend to change my opinion about our being in Vietnam. I think we are right in respect of Vietnam and South East Asia, but I think also that without doubt we have lost the propaganda war. 
We - the allies and the free world, as I call it - have been licked in the propaganda war. However, I could be wrong. As against that, the only satisfaction that may come is that 5 or 10 years later one may be proved to have been right. That will be little recompense. I only hope that if things do go wrong honourable gentlemen opposite can look themselves and their families in the face and say that they did make the right decision. 
Is the Minister for External Affairs aware of a broadcast made last night over certain commercial broadcasting stations by a  Mr Frank  Chamberlain in which he inferred that the United States action in respect of Cambodia was no different from the Soviet Union's actions in regard to Czechoslovakia last year? For the sake of clarity to the public will the Minister advise, firstly: Was not Cambodia occupied by North Vietnam and Vietcong units which were advancing on the national capital before any United States intervention? Secondly, if  Mr Chamberlain  is correct will the Minister advise what foreign country was occupying or threatening Czechoslovakia before the Soviet intervention? 
I desire to make a personal explanation. 
I am quite amazed at the amendment. While I see certain factors in favour of the arguments advanced by the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  and the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  there are other factors that should be considered. The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith referred to defence factors and said that defence personnel are entitled to be considered. 1 am sure that everybody would concede that. 
But there is I essential difference between a civil airport and a Service airport. One of the essential requirements in establishing an Army or Air Force base - any Service base - is that reasonable housing for the personnel of the base be provided as quickly as possible. If you develop your air base and build up the strength of the personnel in the area without at the same time quickly providing housing for those people you force them to live in single quarters. This means that married men are separated from their families. This is one of the circumstances of Service life responsible for the rate of recruiting for the Services not being as high as it should be. One of the greatest complaints about Army life in the past has been that married quarters have not been provided fairly promptly. Thank goodness this deficiency has now been rectified. 
There is no similarity between a civil airport and a military or Air Force airport. Let us face facts: We need airports and airstrips for the defence of this country in the event of an emergency. If such an emergency were to arise and the signal to scramble came, requiring flight crew and other personnel to get quickly to the aircraft and gat them off the ground, it would be essential to have those personnel in close proximity to the hangars or the airstrips. If an emergency arose suddenly and your Air Force personnel were some miles away, your aircraft could be caught on the ground and destroyed. This would not do much for the defence of Australia, f am sympathetic with what the Opposition is trying to do but I consider that its aim is not practical under present arrangements. I am sorry that the Opposition does not agree with me. 

 Mr LES JOHNSON (Hughes) P.I41- Members of the Public Works Committee were well aware of the importance of the decision taken by the Select Committee on Aircraft Noise and by the Parliament as a consequence of that Committee's report being submitted. The matter was treated by the Public Works Committee as of such importance and as so significant that the inquiry, which to all intents and purposes had been concluded, was subsequently reopened. On that occasion the representatives of the client department and the Depart ment of Works were interrogated about this matter over a very considerable period of time. The interrogation was directed to ascertain whether the client department and the Department of Works felt that any problem existed. I think the general feeling was that there was no problem here that was out of proportion compared with Air Force bases around the countryside. 
I rise to inform the House that the assurance we received from the client department and the Department of Works in particular was of such a nature that it provided prospects of any problem arising from aircraft noise being attended to, even if necessary by a subsequent design submission. I would like the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  to know that members of the Public Works Committee treated this matter with the importance it deserves. For my part I have been extremely conscious of aircraft noise because I live in an area so affected. I agree with the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  that town planning is a very important aspect as far as this problem of aircraft noise is concerned. I would like the House to know that as a result of our interrogations in the Public Works Committee some members of the Committee felt that some aspects of town planning surrounding the base in question were unsatisfactory. I refer not just to the facilities for the personnel of the base but also to the residential facilities near the base. As a result of the excellent work done by the Aircraft Noise Committee and the fact that the aspect of noise has been in the forefront of our minds on the Public Works Committee, we have obtained an assurance from the Department of Air that in the establishment of future bases this matter will receive top priority. 
As far back as February 1968 the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  indicated to the House and to the people of Australia his intention of thoroughly reviewing and, when necessary, extensively improving the health insurance scheme. With this clear objective and on the firm foundation of schemes introduced by previous Liberal-Country Party Governments we have already made great advances in providing security against the cost of illness. This was stated by the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  when he made his statement in the House on 14th March of this year. As we all know, the GovernorGeneral in his Speech referred to the health scheme to be introduced during this session of the Parliament. We all know that the Nimmo Committee for 12 months or so investigated the question of public health in Australia, particularly the role of the Federal Government. It came forward with a quite voluminous report. Many of its suggestions have been accepted by the Government and many others are still under consideration. I think all the people of Australia and the members in this Parliament realise that something does need to be done in the present circumstances in Australia to improve public health schemes. Difficulties are being experienced by patients, especially those in the lower income groups but not necessarily solely there, in meeting medical and hospital costs. 
In such matters as health, social services and repatriation, what is needed and what 1 hope will ultimately be done is a review of the overall schemes starting from the ground roots, looking at the problems that confront us as a nation, looking for a solution and perhaps re-writing the whole programme of health services, repatriation and so on. This responsibility does noi fall to any one government. Great problems in respect of health are brought about by the system of federation under which we live. I agree with federation and 1 support it. Some aspects of health are under the control of States and some are under the control of the Commonwealth, and it is rather difficult to get a unanimous viewpoint on an improvement which will work for the betterment of the people as a whole. 
I appreciate what the Government has done. I appreciate particularly the work that the Minister for Health has done in bringing this legislation before the Parliament. I am not saying that 1 necessarily agree in the detail of many of the things that are in the legislation. But I think it is fair to say that the Minister and the Government have endeavoured as far as possible to learn from the spokesmen, or the supposed spokesmen anyway until a fairly recent time, of the medical profession. I refer to the Australian Medical Association. I think that the Minister has endeavoured to consult with the AMA and has endeavoured to accept viewpoints which were put forward by its members with respect to the proposed scheme. lt was not until certain details of the scheme were announced in the prime statement of the Minister on 4th March of this year that sections of the medical profession became concerned as to certain of the detail in the proposed legislation. I think that it must be understood by the medical profession and, indeed, by the people of this country that much of the fault in this respect - in my opinion, anyhow - does lie with the medical profession itself. When one speaks to many of those in the profession one finds that they say now that the viewpoint put forward by the Australian Medical Association is not necessarily their viewpoint. What do we find when we look further into the matter? I do not criticise members of the medical profession, because their position is like that of people concerned with many other organisations. Members may well not be able to attend meetings of the AMA. How many men who are members of certain groups, organisations or trade unions do not attend the meetings of those bodies and say, when a decision is made which they think is wrong, that they were not consulted? 
The end result, as far as I can see, is a certain amount of confusion within the medical profession as to what is the best and most workable system for a health scheme such as is proposed by the Government at this time. In my opinion the Minister did go out of his way and did make strenous efforts to consult with and to answer criticism from the medical profession. He endeavoured to explain Government viewpoints and to listen to the viewpoints of the various sections of the medical profession. I feel that both the medical profession and the Government as well as all responsible people realise that a health scheme will be workable only as long as the co-operation of people in the three spheres is obtained; I refer to the patients, the medical profession and the Government. lt is to the advantage of the whole community that, wherever possible, a workable solution and a workable plan should be developed by co-operation and consultation. Now, as we know, the Committee of Inquiry into Health Insurance, commonly known as the Nimmo Committee, did have over 12 months in which to consult and to investigate. We know that the Government did have a period when the Nimmo Committee's report was under discussion by it when it did have consultations with the Australian Medical Association and when it was able to make up its mind on certain questions which are now in the form of the Bill before the House. 
I had conferences with medical officers in my electorate. My remarks on these conferences were quoted in the Press. These medical officers had not had the same opportunity that the Government, the Nimmo Committee and others had had to see the fine print or the detail of this Bill. Indeed, it was suggested by honourable members on this side of the House that the National Health Bill should be introduced and should be allowed to lie on the table so that the medical profession itself - those in its various spheres - would have time to consult and to be able to bring forward suggestions as to where it thought amendments should be carried out or where improvements should be made. I find in considering a Bill such as this - I am sure that many other members of the House share the same difficulty - that it may be all right if a member is a doctor or a member of the medical profession. Such a person can understand the ramifications and effects of various proposals or clauses in a Bill. Those proposals or clauses may have an entirely different effect on the medical profession, as the medical practitioner sees them, as compared with the effect that I as a layman and a member of Parliament think that they will have when I consider the Bill in this House. 
I think that the Opposition is lucky that it has in its ranks so many members of the medical profession who perhaps can advise it on various factors related to the Bill. We on this side of the House are not so lucky at this time. But I think that it also should be remembered that whilst on the other side of the House the Opposition may have professional men - doctors - in its ranks, those men now are members of a party and as members of Parliament it is not necessarily their professional opinions which will carry the day. When it comes to a question of politics it may well be that a doctor has to go along with the majority opinion expressed by his Party and not necessarily put forward the viewpoint that he holds. 
I did not hear the interjection. 
My honourable friend from Wills has been here long enough to make an assessment on that matter himself. Quite frankly, that is not the impression given to me. 
As this matter concerns me at the moment, I wish to put forward a proposal to which I feel the Government should agree. lt is something that I feel the Minister for Health may well be prepared to do. I would ask the Minister and the Government to permit this 'Bill to pass the second reading stage in this House and then to allow the Parliament a week or a fortnight before the debate in Committee proceeds so that further discussions can be undertaken with the medical profession, the Australian Medical Association and the Royal Australian College of General Practitioners in an endeavour to reach some solution which may be suitable to all parties. In the 3-week period when, after its introduction, the Bill Jay on the table of this House, we did receive from the Australian Medical Association a letter dated 1st May - that is only a few days ago - and also a letter from the Royal Australian College of General Practitioners. In both letters suggestions were put forward as a result of the reading of the Bill by those bodies. Suggestions came also from certain other groups including the General Practitioners Society of Australia and a section of general practitioners in New South Wales which, I understand, is another sector in the Australian Medical Association. 
What I am suggesting is that, having received as laymen these reports, suggestions and criticisms concerning the Bill, some of which came as late as Monday of this week, it would be advisable for us to allow a certain period to elapse so that we can go into the matters that have been raised by the medical profession now in an endeavour to reach a solution. To support that view I would stress that the Minister in his second reading speech and indeed throughout the discussions on this matter has said that most of the suggestions concerning clauses of the Bill have been put into effect after consultation with the Australian Medical Association. Indeed, it does appear now that the Australian Medical Association has had some further review of the opinions expressed earlier. It has had further discussions, I think, with those members of the AMA who are also members of the Royal Australian College of General Practitioners and has suggested certain amendments which are very similar to the amendments proposed by the Royal Australian College of General Practitioners. 1 hope that the Government will be prepared to accept my suggestion and that it will allow at least a short time before the Bill passes through the Committee stages so that lay members of this Parliament may consult both with the Department of Health and with individual doctors and so bring about a health scheme which will be of advantage to Australia and to the patient and that will permit co-operation with the medical profession and solve some of the ills which are operative at present. 
I wish to raise a few other matters. For one thing, I am concerned with the question of differential rebates; 1 do go along to a certain extent with the point raised by general practitioners that this proposal ultimately will have the effect of encouraging the young student who is doing medicine at university to take what could be the easy path and decide to become a specialist because such action has many advantages. As a layman I say that that may be so, but with the professional men there seems to be a variance of opinion. It seems to me that it does allow a professional man to work fewer hours. The specialist is not necessarily on call day and night 24 hours a day as is the general practitioner. From my reading of the Bill it seems to me that he is allowed to charge a higher fee and to sit back and just wait for the referrals to come to him. It does allow him to concentrate on only one specialty and become an authority in that particular sphere. Who can blame a young man at the university for choosing to become a specialist, particularly in view of the propaganda that is being put about? I am concerned about the ultimate effect this may have on the general patient - the person in the country, in an outlying area or in an outer suburban area who, in the event of an emergency, whether he be a person involved in a car accident at the corner, a son falling off a table, somebody cutting his foot or who suffers from any of the 100,000 things that can happen in a family, requires medical attention. What will be the position if there are not sufficient general practitioners in a local area to service the problems that arise? It is the general practitioner who knows the circumstances of a family and the background of the children's health, and who has treated that family for years and knows the ailments from which members of that family suffer. He would know more about a member of that family than would the specialist to whom that member was referred. The general practitioner is the person closest to the patient and this, I think, necessarily should be so. 1 am concerned also about who will be a specialist. I am not clear as to how this will be worked out. I understand that the various States handle this aspect in different ways. I believe that in some States committees have been appointed to determine who shall be regarded as specialists. I do not think such a committee is operating in Victoria. Will a specialist be the man who has taken higher degrees overseas, who has gained his FRCS or whatever the higher degree is? Will these degrees automatically give him the rating of a specialist, or does he have to sit in Collins Street or Macquarie Street and attend to one specific illness? In many group practices 3 or 4 members of the medical profession are gathered together, particularly in country areas. One may be a general practitioner, another a specialist in ear, nose and throat disorders although still acting as a general practitioner, and yet another a surgeon who has not sufficient demand to enable him to practise as a surgeon specialist and who accepts some responsibility and share of the general practitioner work which comes to the group. Will this legislation preclude him from being regarded as a specialist if he is in a general practice in association with others? 1 have been assured by the Minister - I hope he will make this clear in the House - that where such a situation occurs a general practitioner who has secured his senior and advanced degrees, depending on the number of operations or services he performs, will have his case reviewed by the committee which is to be set up and he can be regarded as a specialist. It is all right to say that that will be so, but it should be said clearly in the House. These doctors should be reassured that they will not be prejudiced by this legislation, because Ministers change and the next Minister may not be aware of the situation.  So  problems could arise. 
That is so, but I want the Minister to state that that is the Government's intent so that the Board knows it. A number of problems are associated with this legislation. They concern me and we should be entitled to make more investigation of them. I have had a verbal assurance from the Minister regarding persons suffering from chronic illnesses. If a person is a diabetic - I do not instance this for any personal reason but because it is the example that comes to my mind - or suffers any other illness for which there is no known cure, will it be necessary for that person to receive a referral from a general practitioner every 6 months before seeing a specialist? A specialist alone is capable of handling such illnesses but if the patient is obliged to go to a general practitioner every 6 months as well as to a specialist he will have to pay S5 to the general practitioner and  $5  to the specialist. This would be a complete waste of government money. The Minister has verbally assured me if I understood him correctly, and I hope that he will make it clear, that should the general practitioner regard a person as permanently invalided - I do not like that term - or stuck with a disease, it will be sufficient for the general practitioner to refer such a patient permanently to a specialist. 
Indeed, without a doubt. If the Minister would give me that assurance it would reassure a lot of people. One aspect of the legislation with which I am disappointed relates to the position of physiotherapists. If this legislation is to encompass all the things that are necessary to assist people in meeting the cost of ill health, surely physiotherapists should have been included. I know of a case close to me where the person concerned is a chronic asthmatic. That person has been through the general practitioners and through a whole galaxy of specialists. Not much can be done for asthmatics; there may be some alleviation of the illness but there does not seem to be a cure. On the last occasion when this person was referred by a general practitioner to a specialist that specialist referred the person to a physiotherapist. The physiotherapist attended the patient approximately 3 days a week for a period of about 3 months. I admit that of the whole range of treatments that had been prescribed by the medical profession the physiotherapist probably gave the patient the greatest relief. I do not say this as a reflection on the medical profession. However, the medical profession accepts that manipulation and teaching people how to breathe under the great strain and stress of asthma are the most helpful things that can be done. The general practitioner is entitled to be recompensed, as is the specialist, but in this case neither has been able to bring about much relief and the specialist has recommended that the patient should go to a physiotherapist as a means of securing some relief. The physiotherapist has taught this person how to act, how to control his breathing and how to obtain relief in a situation of stress, but the physiotherapist is not entitled to any recompense whatsoever, nor is the patient. I ask the Minister to say why this is so. It appears to me to be a most amazing anomaly. 1 will not take my full time in this debate, although I would like to raise many other questions. 1. hope that we will be given an opportunity to discuss the Bill more fully during the Committee stage. I suggest to the House that when the debate on the second reading is finalised we should allow a period in which we can have further consultation with the medical profession before the Bill passes through its remaining stages. During this time we can say to the Australian Medical Association, the Royal College of General Practitioners and other bodies of the medical profession: 'Here is a further period for consultation. Let us talk again of these suggestions you have put to us and let us try to iron out the problems we both see.' I am adamant that the success of this scheme will depend on the co-operation of the medical profession. 
Taking myself as an example, I believe that the general practitioner is important to the family. I do not want to find a situation in which one cannot get a medical practitioner in an emergency. Without criticising the scheme, I say: God help anyone who tries to ring a specialist at 11 o'clock at night to tell him that his children are sick and have a temperature of 103 degrees and who asks whether the specialist will come and see them. The basic medical attention and treatment of people has been well supplied by the general practitioner and by the specialist when required. But I would do nothing, and I suggest that the Government should try not to do anything, that may affect the general practitioner services, particularly in the outlying areas  of  my electorate and in country electorates, because I think it will be to the disadvantage of the people. 
I congratulate the Minister on the Bill. I think the scheme will ultimately be a good one. The courtesy and consideration of the Minister has been admirable, and I am sure that if he is prepared to allow a further delay of perhaps a week or 2 weeks for further consultation with members of the medical profession so that an agreement with them may be reached the scheme will get off the ground, will be an amazing success and will be appreciated by the people of Australia. 
It is always of interest to listen to speakers such as the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  but quite frankly I do not know on what subject he was speaking. I presume that he was endeavouring to answer the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron).  If he is sincere and if honourable members opposite are sincere in what they say as to their good intent and how they are genuine in their support of the Vietnam Moratorium Committee, and in their accusations against this side of the House because we talk about their association with Communists and such like when in fact this is not so, I would feel more im pressed, the Australian Workers Union would be more impressed and other people- 
I know it is the honourable member's friend and I know that the Liberal Party had to help, him fight it, but indeed if honourable members opposite were genuine only occasionally - just occasionally - they would say there was perhaps some fault on the other side, lt would be different if only they would say that the fault was not always with the Americans, the Australians or the Allies or with those who are rightly or wrongly fighting against the Communists. But I never hear anybody on the other side say anything nasty about those who. rightly or wrongly, are the enemies of Australia and its forces at this time. If the honourable member for- 
No, I mean the chap with the AWU. If the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  who is trying to interject, had only done something for his country at some time I would feel that he was much more fitted to speak on this matter. 
You cannot upset me. 1 understand you fully. 
However, if only honourable members opposite at some stage would come out and say that there were faults on both sides we would perhaps believe that they were genuine in their outlook in respect of the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign. 
This is not what I rose to discuss tonight. 1 am sorry' that the right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell)  has gone home. He started his address on a matter with which 1 have great sympathy. 1 do not think that enough credit was given to the people whom he mentioned -  Sir Harold  Clapp and  Mr Eddie  Ward - with respect to the east west railway. I sympathise with the right honourable member because if the right man had been elected  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition at the time that he mentioned, he would not now be stuck in the position of having to follow a man for whom he has no respect and, I would suggest, nothing more than contempt. 
I am sorry that the right honourable member for Melbourne is not present because the matter on which I wish to speak is not concerned so much with criticism of the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign as with bringing to the notice of the House some of the risks which are run in the conducting of moratorium campaigns. It is quite interesting to note that in America moratorium campaigns are being wound up. They are being wound up because those concerned with them feel that they have gone as far as they can go. Those concerned are $120,000 in debt. Moratorium campaigns are finished. The point that I wish to make is that when such issues are generated by people with good intent or with bad intent certain risks are involved. At a time such as this we should do everything possible to see that nobody is able to use such campaigns for the purpose of violence. Although the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  did suggest in the early stages that the law should be broken and that certain things were quite acceptable in demonstrations, he is now very concerned that the wrong type of people may have glued themselves onto this campaign and may glue themselves onto the demonstrations on Friday next. 
I said 1 was sorry the right honourable members for Melbourne was not here because he has been the victim of violence at a political meeting or political demonstration. Indeed, the right honourable member has been on the receiving end of what happens when a nut or somebody who is built up over an issue is carried away and uses a gun. As we all know, the right honourable member for Melbourne was injured. He was very lucky not to have been injured more seriously at that time. The honourable member for Lalor himself has been a victim of violence - perhaps at the hands of a nut, although I understand that it may have been at the hands of a member of his own Party. I understand that a man has been caught. I only hope that the Victorian Liberal Government brings that man to justice because justice should be done in this case. Let me refer to the point I worry about. I personally am not concerned. I could not care less. But I received in the mail today a very nice little epistle with a photograph of me. It refers to me and says: Found dead - rat Jess'. 
I thought the honourable member would regard that as a good thing. It also says: 'All warmongers and traitors will be executed to death', 'Long live Ho Chi Minh' and various other things. I think it is quite humorous. I agree with my friend from Hindmarsh, but I think he would agree that this was not necessarily sent by somebody on my side. It is more likely to have been sent by somebody whose vole he would solicit and who would be more agreeable to his viewpoint. 
What I am trying to say is that we laugh at these things at a time like this. I am not worried. I think a nut is responsible. But it is not until a nut suddenly puts his finger on a trigger that suddenly somebody thinks: 'This may have been generated by political persuasion or whatever it may be'. It was not until a nut obtained a rifle that  President  Kennedy was killed. It was not until a nut obtained a rifle that Robert Kennedy was killed. I do not put myself in that category. Nobody is offering $20,000 to have me killed. But what I am suggesting is that, at times like this and in respect of issues like this, unless there is some control there is a risk of things getting out of hand. I am sure that the right honourable member for Melbourne would agree with me and I know that the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  would agree with me that it is at times like this- 
I have had a talk to him and I think that we are in perfect agreement, which is more than can be said for the honourable member and his friend Chamberlain. 
The Leader of the House wilt be aware that some time ago the Minister for Defence made a long statement on defence policy and also on new defence equipment. Is the Minister aware that a number of members wish to discuss this matter? When will it be brought before the House for discussion? 
 I support the motion moved by the honourable member for Chisholm  (Sir Wilfrid Kent Hughes).  I feel - perhaps nol quite as strongly as other honourable members - that what we are hearing in this debate is the Australian Labor Party's defence policy. That policy could, not have been more effectively put than it has been by the defence spokesman for the Labor Party who is not in the chamber at the present time. That policy has been and continues to be nil. When analysed it shows confusion and the most amazing lack of consideration that I have ever heard propounded by any Labor Opposition in this country for some considerable time. 
Possibly like the Fill. Going back into the pas[, 1 remember listening to some of the defence spokesmen for the Opposition, in particular the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  assuring us when he came back from one of his many travels - I think it was through Mongolia and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics - that Australia could defend itself, that if the Australian militia were recruited it could put men around the periphery of Australia and that it could withstand the might of any attacking force. The statement received headlines in the Press. That seemed to be the thinking of the Labor Party. I remember hearing the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard),  who speaks with such authority on behalf of the Labor Party, speaking about the Fill the delivery of which, I agree, seems to have been delayed. I am not putting the case for the Government in support of it but I am putting the argument that the  Deputy  Leader of . the Opposition used at that particular time. As I understood it, he said that Australia did not need a strategic aircraft. When pressed by the radio interviewer he said: 'We have got the Mirage. We could use the Mirage.' Even if we have a fortress Australia policy and even if we decide that the defence of this country should be governed by such a policy, I think it is wise to attack the enemy or at least to endeavour to put the enemy out of action at a greater range than that covered by a fighter aircraft. The supremo of the Labor Party's defence forces would be waiting for the enemy to arrive off the shores of Australia before he would take any action. I am reminded of  Sir Walter  Raleigh who said: 'Let us finish our game of bowls and then we will press down to the beach and put the ball into the muzzle of the gun and assail the Spanish flotilla.' Surely that is not a reasonable defence policy for Australia. 
I do not wish to take the matter further but I would like to refer to the point which has been made clear by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in his statement on the Fill this week. The Minister gave reasons why Australia required a strategic aircraft. T support them wholeheartedly. If someone decides to attack 
Australia or her allies, or the areas which are essential to Australia's trade and defence, unless those people know that we have the ability and the equipment to offer some threat to their own homeland or cities they w 11 not be particularly impressed by anything that Australia may say with respect to alliances, defence or anything else. There is nothing like showing that you have the muscle to stop somebody threatening you. I suggest to the Government as well as to the Opposition that if Australia is going to enter into treaties, if it is going to have diplomatic arrangements with countries, and if it is going to have regional security agreements, the best thing it can have is the capability to do the things it Says it will do. 
I support most wholeheartedly the proposition that the priority of the Cockburn Sound base should be raised. I am critical, because I feel that the committees have had a considerable amount of time in which to consider establishing a naval base on the western shores of Australia. We have known for a considerable t me that the United Kingdom was going to withdraw from Singapore. We have had a considerable time in which to work out the options that may or may not be available to us in Singapore. Although Singapore has a friendly government and has good relations w th . Australia at the present moment and although we and our allies will be able to use the base at Singapore, we have no assurance that this will operate forever. There could be changes of government and changes of policy. It is essential for the Australian Government to decide that we must have a base at Cockburn Sound and that the base must be a fairly substantial one. 
As other honourable members have said, whether we like it or not - I am not suggesting that Australia alone can or should do much about it - the Soviet Union ;s building up its Indian Ocean fleet. As the honourable member for Chisholm said, Russia has bases on the Red Sea, it has moved into the Mediterranean Sea and from the Mediterranean into the Indian Ocean. From the Indian Ocean it may well move further afield. Russia now has one of the strongest naval forces in the world. It is carrying out a propaganda war by showing to the small nations that its ships are there while the British ships are withdrawing. The United Kingdom formerly maintained a peaceful situation in the Indian Ocean in conjunction with other countries. But the United Kingdom is withdrawing and now the Soviet Union is there. The Soviet Union will endeavour to gain bases in countries with which it can establish relationships, it will use the might of the Soviet fleet to bring about trade and diplomatic relations with those countries. These things must be of concern to Australia. If, as a counter to this, Australia is prepared to say only that it will build a causeway which may ultimately become a naval base, I do not think that that would be particularly effective. We in Australia have to look at defence much more strongly and substantially than we have in the past. Honourable members on both sides of the House have been thinking that we have time unlimited. They think that by stating that Australia is getting an oceanographic ship or some other ship this will terrify anybody who may be a threat to us at this time. 
After all. we have to realise that if Singapore was not available to Australia or to any friendly navy that may come to our aid or be prepared to play a part in the defence of the Indian Ocean area, the only alternative base where ships could receive major servicing and repairs would be around on the east coast of Australia. In any situation in the Indian Ocean where major repairs have to be undertaken the ships would have to be taken out of that area completely and sailed around the coast of Australia to Garden Island. We would then hope to goodness that the industrial situation there would be adequate for them to obtain some maintenance. If we hope that our allies or friends which have substantial naval forces will come to our aid, surely to goodness we have to show that we are prepared to make some sacrifice of expenditure in building a base in the area where we ask them to take some interest. 
Motion (by  Mr Killen)  agreed to: 
That the lime for discussion of the notice be extended to 12.45 p.m. today. 
As I was saying, if we were in a situation where we wished that our strong and powerful friends or whoever else it may be would come to our aid, in the event of Singapore not being available, surely it would be indicative of our concern for our own defence and for the role that we may have to play in the future that we had constructed an efficient naval base at Cockburn Sound on the western coast ot Australia. The honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  very capably discussed the fact that a defence base on the west coat of Australia also has great advantage to Western Australia. It should be understood - and I do not know that is is by some people - that a naval base is not just a harbour to garage the car, to put the ships of the fleet and where there are a few night clubs at which the sailors and others can make up for lost time; it is a great industrial complex. I think it is a great facility that will be of advantage to Western Australia at this time. 1 have not gone into the cost but whatever the cost I think it would be worth it. It is an old adage but I and, I think, most of the people of Australia would like to be protected, not liberated, and there is a great difference. This is my defence policy and 1 put it in those words. However, let me say that in respect to a naval base - take Singapore for example - it is not only necessary to have an engineering complex and a great store complex; it is also necessary to have many facilities which are above and beyond just the naval establishment which is there. It gives great incentive to employment. It gives more incentive to development and it is something which everybody should support on the question of decentralisation. Therefore I would suggest that the Government should encourage tha committee to bring forward a report. 1 think it should come out with a much firmer statement leading to more development than just saying the causeway will be built. lt has been suggested by the honourable member for Curtin that the so-called naval base may garage only 3 or 4 frigates and 4 submarines. This is not a very effective force. I think when we talk about a 2-ocean navy we have to start thinking much further ahead than we have done in the past in respect to our defence forces. Furthermore, the establishment of a naval base in the Indian Ocean could be a great asset from the other viewpoint. We have been told that we will not get the Fill for some considerable time. The Minister for Defence was quite honest in saying that there could be other problems associated with it of which we do not know as yet. But if we do not have a strategic aircraft, if we cannot obtain a replacement with the required range or if something else should go wrong, it is an asset for us to have a naval base from which carriers can operate. If we do not have the strategic capacity in the air force the only alternative is to have our air capacity operating from a carrier. The carrier can move out of the base, it can bring the aircraft it carries within range of any target and it can in certain circumstances be the only alternative to a strategic aircraft. 
It should be remembered that the Phantom aircraft in certain conditions can fly off a carrier. I am not saying the Phantom could fly off the 'Melbourne'. However, if we desired to increase the range of the aircraft we could bring a carrier nearer to the target and we would have a very effective strike aircraft which could take off in those circumstances. So,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I feel at this stage there is a requirement, from the defence and other viewpoints advanced by honourable members who have spoken, for the Government to raise the priority of Cockburn Sound. I appreciate the opportunity that has been given to me by the non-existent defence policy of the Opposition to discuss the motion moved by the honourable member for Chisholm because 20 minutes ago I had no idea I would be given this opportunity. But as I said earlier, it does not concern me that there is silence from the Opposition because for many years we have known that, apart from getting an occasional clue on defence from what it may read in topical tabs in the newspaper or hear on 'Four Corners', it has not had any constructive defence policy. It has not made a constructive contribution to a defence debate in the 10 years I have been here. I support the motion moved by the honourable member for Chisholm. 
Most certainly I will vote for it at any stage. As I have said, when the red badge of courage is worn by Opposition members and when I see them voting for something that may be of embarrassment to their great and glorious leader, I will be prepared to take off my hat to them and salute them. They always encourage honourable members on this side of the House to vote in this way. 

 Mr GRAHAM (North Sydney) [12.71- I rise to support the honourable member for Chisholm  (Sir Wilfrid Kent Hughes)  and to take part in this debate on the motion he moved, lt is: 
That the construction of the naval base at Cockburn Sound should receive high priority on the defence programme and that negotiations should be undertaken with the British Government to base 2 aircraft carriers on Cockburn Sound after 1970. 
To give continuity to the debate and to follow on the comments of the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  I would like to make some comments on the references he has made to the lack of a Labor Party defence policy. I think the honourable member for La Trobe looks at Labor's defence policy in terms of the Government's appreciation of the threat to Australia. If he were to appreciate that in the view, of the Opposition in this Parliament there is no substantial threat to the welfare, survival and development of Australia it might be easier for him to understand Labor's position. I believe it is fair to say, and I believe that members of the Australian Labor Party will in due course confirm what I am saying, that it is their view that the Communists in Moscow and Peking constitute no threat to the survival and the development of the Commonwealth of Australia. That is their view and it is upon that basis (hat their concept of a defence policy has evolved. They do not see any need at all to encourage Asian nations to believe that Australia in 1970 can be relied upon to be a willing supporter if they are invaded. The Labor Party not only does not encourage Asian countries to adopt this point of view but has gone to great lengths to make it quite clear that it is part of its defence policy that Australian forces should not be in countries like Malaysia and Indo-China, for their very presence in those countries, whether actually involved in operations or not, constitutes an aggressive military attitude and an expression of policy by the Commonwealth of Australia. For that reason the Labor Party disapproves of there being Australian forces overseas. 
The Cockburn Sound concept, which has been very clearly defined by my honourable and gallant friend from Chisholm is part of the maritime strategic defence plan for the Indian Ocean. It can be argued by those people who see no threat at all presented to Australia's future by the Communists in Moscow and in Peking that the Commonwealth of Australia, in creating a great naval base over a period of a decade in the south western corner of Australia, is making an aggressive act that will encourage the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and mainland China to adopt a public attitude that will identify us with aggression. Fundamentally the Labor Party must admit that its entire approach to these matters is based upon the assumption that the Communists in Moscow and in Peking constitute no threat at all to Australia's survival. 
 I am urged to support the amendments mainly by the remarks of the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  for the same reasons put forward by the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner).  1 would like to stress what the honourable member for Lalor said. He said, I think in all sincerity, that he hoped that the 15% equity would be retained, if necessary, for a long period. He stated that the  Deputy  Prime Min:ster  (Mr McEwen)  had given him this assurance and that it was not intended to get in and out. He went further and said that when the Opposition formed the government they would retain the equity so that they could see that the companies went along in a certain line as desired. Is this anything but nationalisation of industry? If it cannot be seen what could happen surely the remarks of the honourable member for Lalor have indicated what could happen. 
I accept the comments of the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr McEwen)  that this is not intended by this Government. I accept the assurance of this Government. But I think that the greatest concern must be felt by anybody in regard to this clause, and leaving aside for a moment the amendment moved by the honourable member for Lilley. Are we unleashing a vehicle which honourable members on the other side of the Committee could use and manipulate? We have fought- 
I do not care what the hour is or what progress has been made. I am concerned about this matter and would like some further information from the Minister. 
I thought the Parliament was the place to debate these matters. A point was brought to my attention by the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Jeff Bate).  I cannot understand why the Labor Party is not concerned with this point. Perhaps it can be put out of the way by a simple explanation by the Minister. As I understand it,$100m is to be made available. Whether it be $25m or $50m in 1 year I know not. But the Minister did say by way of interjection earlier in the night when the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  asked where this money would come from, that it would come from the Treasury. That means it comes from the taxpayer and that we are committing on behalf of the taxpayer$100m. Honourable members opposite should not try to divert me by referring to F111 aircraft. Let us settle this matter tonight. 
We are not asking this Corporation to show any profit or to pay any dividend. The explanation given is that to keep it at arm's length we are not to ask it to pay a dividend or show any profit. The amendment merely says that the Minister each year should set a figure. It does not matter whether for the first year it is a nil return because we know it may not be possible to show a profit. With the other legislation we have said that in the first year no profit shall be expected. It seems to me we are giving away$100m. We are not setting any standard. We are not saying that the recipients have to be efficient or capable. We are not saying they have to invest wisely and well and that it will have to be proven and they will have to meet a standard. Again I come back to the fact that concerns me. What will the Opposition be able to do with an Act like this? The Corporation does not have to be efficient and can lend to any ratbag institution it chooses. I can well imagine we will have Uren urea, Cairns' left wing bookshop, Daly's dime stores, Foster's freight store. Nobody will have to report to the Parliament whatsoever as to the efficiency of these investments. 1 am not denying the Minister's good intent and the Government's good intent but it does seem to me that we are committing the taxpayers money but we are not putting any standard on performance whatsoever. 
I am sorry  Mr Chairman,  but 1 am referring to clause 25 (a) which states that the Minister, with the concurrence of the Treasurer and after consultation with the Corporation, shall not later than I month before the commencement of each financial year determine the percentage of capital of the Corporation that would represent a reasonable return to the Commonwealth. I am saying that if this is not done there is no check on what investments are made; there is no control over the Corporation's efficiency; there is no standard set as to how capable or efficient it has to be. I am noi arguing whether it is Socialist or whether it is helping- 
I am delighted with your interpretation.  Mr Chairman,  and am most appreciative, but can I ask this question: If this amendment is not carried and if no dividend has to be paid or a profit shown, what happened if the Corporation's investments are made most inefficiently and there is considerable loss? 
I think it is relevant to clause 25 also. Surely I can choose which clause I wish to speak to. Is the Labor Party running the House now? 
If it is considered to be a reflection on the Chair I withdraw it.  I  intended it as a reflection on certain people. I will conclude by saying that if the investment of $ 100m of the taxpayers money is nol considered to be sufficiently important that some control or restriction should be placed upon it, I agree with the amendment and I think we may well regret the day. 

 Mr SINCLAIR (New England- Minister for Shipping and Transport) (.I.IK a.m.] - Without going into clause 8 and the earlier provisions of the Bill (et me assure the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  that in terms of this proposition the SI 00m will not be invested until such time as the provisions of clause 24, setting out when and under what circumstances the second $50m will be available, are met. In any event there is a specific requirement that only that part of the Corporation's borrowings which are attracted in terms of the security as a result of this ultimate SI 00m will be used for the purposes of the Corporation. Accordingly the funds which it is intended the amendment should refer to are substantially not those which are directed to the Treasury but those which are directed as a result of the borrowings. 
What if there is a loss? 
Proposed new clause negatived. 
Remainder of Bill - by leave - taken as a whole. 
I had not intended to speak on this Bill and therefore I will not take very long for I know that there are a few other honourable members who want to say a few words. I agree with most things that have been said by honourable members on both sides of the House. I think the suggestion by the Press - which is understandable I suppose - that this legislation would be rushed through without any debate was clearly a normal one except that I do not think it was one which was made with much knowledge of the situation.  1  agree with what the honourable members for Prospect  (Dr Klugman),  Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  and Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  have said. I was at a luncheon a short while ago with members of the Press in Melbourne and I was asked the question: Do you travel much around Australia? I presume you are very busy travelling interstate and inspecting things that are going on.' My reply was that when I first came into this House, I was. Indeed, most honourable members when they first come into the House are but as circumstances change and as you perhaps gain more responsibilities in respect of a young family or whatever it may be, you find that you cannot do it. 
What I put to the member of the Press was this: My responsibility as a member for  a  seat in Victoria is equal in relation to a naval base in Western Australia to that of a Western Australian member. Indeed, if an honourable member is doing his job instead of just saying: 'Yes', he should travel. If 1 support the move of the Government 'to build a naval base in Western Australia', or it may be 'to build a harbour in Queensland', I have a responsibility to endeavour to see some of these things in order to ensure that my vote is being rightly placed. But under present conditions this is becoming more difficult. Let me refer to my own situation. I have no hesitation in doing so. My bank manager insists on asking mc why he should maintain me in Parliament. I think he has a good point, and I am sure that some honourable members opposite would agree with him. This is a situation in which we should not be placed. It is all right for a Minister: He gets his travelling allowance wherever he goes as long as he is on official business. If you are the Minister for the Army it is not loo much trouble to go somewhere to look at some Army installation - perhaps to visit an entertainment unit consisting of 4 men and receive a full travelling allowance and free accommodation. But if a private member thinks he should go to Western Australia to investigate the proposed naval base he has to pay his own way. We get free travel, but we have to pay for our own accommodation and living costs and while we are away we have to maintain our families at home. 
Believe me, after a term in Parliament there is not much left if you have done your job well. Democracy as well as the Parliament and the people are not well served if the member of Parliament feels that his sole responsibility is h s electorate; if he feels that he has no responsibility for what is happening in the rest of Australia; or if he feels that all he need do is attend charity bazaars and naturalisation ceremonies and kiss a baby or two. If a member of Parliament adopts this attitude the people of Australia will not be well served because they will have in Parliament people whose outlook is purely parochial and electoral. They will not be prepared to tackle wide issues and to investigate things that are of vital concern to the people. Therefore, I agree with what has been sa'd by honourable members on both sides of the chamber. 
The newspaper reporter to whom I earlier referred is a senior reporter who frequently writes very critically about Parliament and members of Parliament. This is his right, but he should understand some of our problems. 1 do not know how long my bank manager will allow me to stay in Parliament. In one way this worries me, but in another way it does not. 1 was asked whether I would write a newspaper article which would be published in the weekend edition. A member has pride. I am not crying poor mouth but at the same time 1 have no business to fall back on. Daddy did not leave me a great enterprise. I do not have a pastoral property. 1 do not own a cha:n of hotels. 1 am dependent solely on my salary as a member of Parliament. I try to do my job to the best of my ability but it is getting more difficult to do so. I am sure that other honourable members who do not have private incomes, great wealth or some other interest are finding it equally hard to perform their duties. 
If such members are forced out of the Parliament or prevented from entering the Parliament we may well get a type of parliarmentarian who is very limited in his ou I look. People who would be of the greatest value to this Parliament may well say: '1 have a good job with good prospects. Why should 1 give up all this for the present lot of a member of Parliament?' The Government should examine the situation of members of Parliament. The people should consider their situation. I think the newspapers are beginning to take a more realistic view of our situation. By improving the lot of the parliamentarian you may get a better member and the people may be better served. 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that on the Australian Broadcasting Commission Channel 2 National Programme Four Corners on Saturday, 2nd May 1970, a film was shown purporting to be an investigation of the Royal Military College, Duntroon. 
Was there also on the same programme a panel discussing abortion in New South Wales. 
Was the film shown of the R.M.C., Duntroon. filmed in its entirety at the College, or were segments added by the Australian Broadcasting Commission. 
If segments were added, were parts in these segments played by people employed by the A.B.C. and not, as portrayed, by Staff Cadets. 
In connection with the film shown to the panel on abortion activities were any payments made to individuals in the making of this film segment. 
In relation to paragraphs (4) and (5), if payments were made, to whom were they made, and what were the amounts involved. 
Will he make a statement to the House in regard to these incidents. 
I ask the Prime Minister a question. In view of the last answer by the Treasurer could he advise the House of the position of the portability of pensions scheme proposed to be introduced by his Government? 
I ask the Treasurer whether he can advise me on the position of the pensions portability scheme which was announced in the Government's policy speech. When does he expect to be able to introduce the legislation in this House? 
I support the Bill and welcome it as a further move along a rather slow and tortuous track that the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act has taken through this House over the period of years that I have been here. I could not speak on the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund without giving considerable credit, as the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  gave credit, to the former member for Maribyrnong who was most assuredly the main spokesman on the Fund from this side of the House. I had the honour, as did many other honourable members, of working on the Government committee with him and I know that he was the only one who seemed to have most of the sections and technicalities of the Act at his fingertips. He worked most vigorously with the Defence Forces Retirement Welfare Association on all matters and became its consultant on amendments and suggestions to the Government on how the Act should best be altered for the welfare of the Services. 1 say without hesitation - and 1 am sure this view is shared by all honourable members on this side of the House and I would think by some on the other side - that the former member for Maribyrnong will be missed. He has left his mark here in the gains and advances that were made in the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act in his time. 
As the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition said, it is one of the most involved and confused Acts ever introduced into this Parliament and on many occasions over the years I, like other honourable members, have had to go to Treasurers to ask their advice, to ask for an explanation, to ask them in some way to help me go through the mire of sections and counter sections which are in the Act, in order to arrive at a clear understanding as to the entitlement of a soldier or an ex-soldier, but to no avail. I am not referring to the present Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  because 1 have not yet tested him, but previous Treasurers when confronted, have almost said  -  I do not attribute this as a direct statement to them - that they did not understand the Act and for goodness sake get in touch with the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Board which would endeavour to sort it out for me. I give credit to the Board and all those who work in association with it. But 1. must say that in co-operation wilh most other members of this House they work with a most confused Bill and it is very difficult for the layman to understand exactly what it is all about. 1 believe that this complexity is one of the major reasons why recruiting has not been as successful as we would like it to have been, particularly recruiting for the regular Services. I think also that this has been one of the reasons why many regular servicemen have decided to get out earlier than they might otherwise have done. They have been greatly frustrated by being unable to understand exactly what their entitlements are under the Act and exactly what their rights are in the event of some malady or disability overtaking them. This applies particularly to the class C area in which men have just not known whether they were coming or going and just what their entitlements were. Many a father, completely disgusted with the treatment he received under the scheme, has discouraged sons who perhaps may have wished to enter the regular Services. I -think that in the overall picture we have suffered very considerably from the adverse publicity that this legislation has received. 
I have never understood why it was possible to provide a small handbook for a Commonwealth public servant setting out clearly his every entitlement while it has not been possible to provide this information for a serviceman. The public servant knows that if he retires at, say, point A in his career he will receive so much, or that in the event that sickness overtakes him at a certain time of his life he will receive so much. One can always find public servants who know their rights and entitlements and who have no confusion about them whatsoever. But in the case of a soldier who has served his country we find confusion upon confusion. I have here a circular from the Regular Defence Forces Welfare Association. lt refers to the Commonwealth Employees Compensation Act and its application to ex-servicemen. When the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act was originally introduced it was modelled on the Commonwealth Employees Compensation Act. That is one of the reasons we are experiencing our present difficulties. This circular states: 
The CMC Act is an act designed to meet the requirements of civilian employees in a civil environment. As an afterthought, perhaps with little thought, the application of the Act was widened to include servicemen not serving in a declared 'special area' under the Repatriation (Special Overseas Service) Act 1963. Add to this the fact that the Commonwealth Compensation Commissioner invariably interprets the Act in accordance wilh civilian practice and appears to be entirely unaware, or uncaring, as to the special conditions and circumstances applicable to members of the armed Services, and one has the basis of what can only be termed an unjust, uncertain, and unsatisfactory compensation cover for servicemen. 
This is a feeling that I share to some extent. Take the case of a man who enlists as a regular soldier. He may not be sent to Vietnor or to some other overseas posting but he may still be injured on the firing range at Puckapunyal. He is injured in connection with his military duties which are entirely different in type and in every other way from the duties of the average public servant. However, he is not treated as a serviceman when it comes to the assessment of his disability and his future. He is given treatment very similar to that received by a public servant working in an office. The circular goes on to say: 
Further, the entire philosophy adopted by both the Government, and by its administration, _ in relation to the compensation of servicemen, requires urgent revision. The traditional policy has been to draw a marked distinction between volunteers for service overseas and other soldiers. The result has been Repatriation legislation on the basis that nothing is too good for the volunteer for the AIF and that for all other servicemen compensation for peace time disability was to be on a civilian basis. At the time this was acceptable as the permanent serviceman had no commitment to serve overseas and was virtually a uniformed civilian. However, the whole situation has been changed by the introduction of a Regular Army. The philosophy, and the legislation based upon it, has failed to reflect this change. Today, every regular serviceman is a volunteer for overseas service. It is a condition of his enlistment. The national service soldier has no choice. However, should a regular, or a national serviceman fail to be posted to a so-called 'special area' (for example South Vietnam) as a result of an accident of age, trade or employment, he is not subject to the Repatriation Act. These servicemen enlisted under exactly the same terms as the AIF man, fall under the provisions of a civil act, i.e. the Commonwealth Compensation Act. despite the fact that the volunteer for the AIF, and the compulsorily enlisted militia man, were covered by the Repatriation Act whilst serving in Australia up to 30th June 1951. The result of the circumstances outlined above is glaring anomalies in compensation cases, a marked and adverse effect on the morale of the regular servicemen, injustice to individuals, and considerable adverse judicial criticism. 
Those words contain a lot of truth. It is too often forgotten that the regular serviceman today enlists for overseas service. It is not his choice whether he goes or not. He goes where he is sent. He is available to be sent at a moment's notice and if he happens to be injured somewhere within Australia he should not be treated differently from any other soldier. He takes his risks. If he had not incurred his injury he might have received an overseas posting half an hour later and might have been injured overseas. 
There are other anomalies in the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act. There is one provision to which I still object. Even after a man has given many years of distinguished service he is not allowed to resign except in the most exceptional - and I repeat the word exceptional - circumstances. He may not retire except with the approval of the Military Board or the Naval Board. Should he decide to resign he is not entitled to any pension whatsoever. This is an inequity. Men who have given 30 or more years service and who wish to resign, whether their reasons are personal or otherwise, should he entitled to do so and to receive a reasonable pension. 1 support the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in everything that he has said. I would like to think that the House was unanimous in agreeing that something needs to be done to investigate the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act with a view to drawing up clearer and more precise legislation so that every soldier will know exactly where he stands and what his future is. I will have great pleasure in supporting the amendment of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition that a joint committee of both Houses of the Parliament be set up to investigate the Act and all its ramifications, and I am quite sure that there are others who feel as I do. 
I feel most humble indeed even to enter this debate after the standard of the speeches that have been made. When I attended the funeral of  Sir Wilfrid  Kent Hughes with so many others 1 sat in the church and looked at the noble gathering that attended and I thought much of the man whom I had known over many years through family friendship and through my experience in this House. I know that 1 say on behalf of every backbencher on either side of the House that Bill Kent Hughes had the amazing ability to be with all men of whatever age. As I heard it described yesterday, he could speak even to children and reach a common ground with them. We backbenchers in this House - many of us radicals, rebels or whatever we may be called occasionally - could always seek out Bill Kent Hughes and receive sound advice which perhaps would temper what we had been thinking was good common sense. We all owed an obligation to him. However, this is not what I wanted to say. 
While I was sitting in the church I thought of the number of occasions on which I had heard Bill Kent Hughes in debate on television or radio and in other spheres. I have heard him called a racist but I think it should be said - and, indeed, it was understood by all who were debating with him - that no man had more friends in Asia, South East Asia and Africa than he. He went out and sought their friendship and whatever he said or did was done for the benefit of these people and of the world. As the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr McEwen),  and others have said, when he debated, perhaps with young university students who were just going out into life and who had not had his experience or suffered as he had done, he was not vindic tive. Perhaps he could not understand their viewpoint, but he never finished a debate without a word of sympathy for them or expressing concern and interest in the outlook against which he had edneavoured to persuade them. 
I ask myself what Bill Kent Hughes himself would like to be said on this occasion. I look at him as a man who, through death, has been forced to put down his load of sticks. As the  Deputy  Prime Minister said, in the 1930s  Sir Wilfrid  was one of those who warned of the dangers confronting this country. He tried to tell people what could occur. War did occur. He unfortunately, together with many others, was imprisoned for many years by an Asian people. Later he gained much sympathy for the people of South East Asia for saying what he thought could happen in that region if ever again people should be too complacent. He had the courage to say what he thought should be said. I should like to say, on behalf of Bill Kent' Hughes and all those men like him: Do not just praise my name; remember some of the things that I stood for; remember some of the messages I endeavoured to give you'. Only time will tell whether many of the things he said were right or wrong but I feel that some may be right. 
In conclusion I should like to quote the first canto of 'Slaves of the Samurai' which was written by  Sir Wilfrid  himself and which was read in the church. I feel it contains the message of  Sir Wilfrid  Kent Hughes - a message that should not be confined to that church but should be given to Australia. It reads: 
The simple lessons of mankind can be 
So clearly read in every history. 
Ideals, without a strong right arm, are less 
Than voices crying in the wilderness. 
A strong right arm is nurtured not by sloth, 
Pursuit of pleasure, or by pride of cloth; 
But by self-discipline and sacrifice 
Which keeps in check ease, luxury, and vice - 
The parasites which, with insidious greed, 
Destroy the parent host on which they feed.  1 should like to extend my sympathy to Lady Kent Hughes and all members of the family. This man has gone to what to me - h may be wrong for me to say it - is his Valhalla. By that I mean not the host of the warmonger but the host of men who have served their country gallantly. I think that a very gallant gentleman and a very gallant warrior has joined that host 
Is the Prime Minister aware of the allegation by the Leader of the Opposition that the Australian Government has not protested to the United Kingdom Government regarding its announcement that it was considering supplying certain types of military equipment to South Africa? Will the Prime Minister advise the House what protests have been made by other Commonwealth countries and will he also state the policy of his Government on this matter? 
I do not wish to detain the House long but I feel that I should make some reply to the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron).  He suggested that the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  had, when he felt strongly on certain issues, taken certain action.  1  think his electors would support the action he has taken. He took the action he considered to be in the best interests of the Parliament as he saw what was occurring. I am also sure that the views that have been put forward tonight by the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor),  who is a man of long experience in the Parliament, are genuine ones and are based on experience. Those who have not been here for such a long time, including myself, do nol have that experience. I certainly feci that what he put forward was reasonable and justified. 
I support the motion before the House but I must say that after listening to some of the speeches  1  have reservations. Like the honourable member for Bradfield, I wonder whether these committee meetings will take place at the weekend. I have seen and  1  am sure the Opposition has seen the situation where it is decided that a committee will sit on Friday or Saturday. Always the Queenslanders and the Western Australians are only too keen to stay because they do not go home but the Victorian or New South Welshman says that he has a function in his electorate to which he must go. The result is a very half hearted committee. 
There are other small matters with which I am not in agreement. I do not particularly approve of private members' speeches being curtailed by  5  minutes or whatever it may be. lt is up to the members themselves to exercise self-discipline in respect of their speeches. I agree with the criticism of members - they may include myself - who go on repeating the same thing just to see out  30  minutes. But most of the problems complained of in the running of the House appear to have been in the hands of the members themselves for a very long time. One of the things that has been forgotten is that most of the wrongs can be rectified if members of Parliament themselves act as I contend they should act. There are occasions where honourable members complain that the House is being detained beyond a reasonable hour. If they can persuade the majority of the members of the House that this is so, the decision is in the hands of the House itself. It can dictate when the sittings should terminate on a particular night. I heard the honourable members from South Australia say that they have been forced to sit late hours in the night. All I can say is that I and members on this side of the House have been forced to sit late hours in the night primarily because the Opposition wants to go on and on, mainly with the idea of forcing the Government to implement the gag so that the Press will be able to say in the morning newspapers that the Government gagged a certain issue. 
I support the motion before the House. Quite frankly 1 do not think it will achieve anything. I do not think it is necessary. I do not think it will do the things that some of the newspapers contend it was intended to do, and that is to make the House more effective. The House in my opinion will become more effective only when the members of the Parliament decide that they have a responsibility and are prepared to accept that responsibility whatever their Party. I think one of the things that has been proved tonight, as the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  illustrated, is that, when members of Parliament are allowed to get up and speak on an issue without being bound by Caucus or by some decision from somewhere else, even perhaps by some other men, the Parliament is able to get down to a discussion and is perhaps able to reach a solution that may be to the betterment of the people of this country. I support the Issue but I do not think it will solve the problems. I think those problems will be solved only when members of Parliament, including myself, decide that they have a right and responsibility to act on certain issues, perhaps above and beyond the decisions of Caucus. 
1 wish to make a personal explanation. 

 Mr 
 DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented. 
I do. During his remarks, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard),  after mentioning the Minister for the Navy  (Mr Killen)  and the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  - the 2 Ministers concerned with defence who are in the House - referred to the honourable member for La Trobe as one who had raised the question of Service conditions and who had spoken in support of the matter.  I  wish to make my position clear because the inference was that  I  supported the Deputy Leader of the Opposition and the Opposition in this case. I wish to make only one point clear. I think justification exists in what the Opposition suggests but to relate this to the joint select committee that is to inquire into the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund is ridiculous. Not only would this impede any decision on the DFRB Fund for a long time but it would also cause nothing but harm. The issue should be a separate one. 
I am sure that the Minister for Customs and Excise is aware of the representations that I, together with others, have made over a period suggesting that superphosphate bounty payments should be made to distributors holding stocks at the time of the announcement of the increase in the bounty. Can the Minister tell me whether any decision has been made on this matter? 
I have always been most impressed over the years to hear New South Welshmen wilh their broad outlook discussing the question of Tullamarine. To take just one statement that has been made, the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  said that the people of Keilor were never consulted about the proposed extension of the runway at Tullamarine. I am advised that there were meetings held at the Council Chambers and in Canberra at which all expenses were met, at which people were asked to be in attendance and at which the Council made representations. Therefore, to say that these people had not been consulted seems to be rather far from the truth. 
That is right.  Mr SPEAKER-Order! Mr Lionel  Bowen  -  Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I am sure that later the Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes)  will discuss the legal ramifications of what the honourable member for Kingstom  (Dr Gun)  has said here tonight. I enter this debate because the honourable member did give notice that he intended to raise this matter. It concerned me. I sat here and thought: 'Here is a member of the once great Labor Party. He is here protesting on behalf of a worker, some poor innocent lad who is a plumber's apprentice, a builder's labourer or somebody who has committed an offence.' But in 10 years 1 have never heard such an appeal made by any member of the Labor Party on behalf of any member of those he claims to represent. 
There has been silence about all the matters which have concerned such people. But when it comes to anybody concerned with a moratorium badge or an organisation such as the Students for a Democratic Society - the new elite and the new confreres of the Labor Party - they are in hook, line and sinker. This would not happen to the old Labor man. One does not hear it from the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Griffiths),  the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell)  or the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean).  One does not hear this from those who are staunch and true Labor men but from those of the new ilk who are now flirting with those who have no time for law and order and who in fact in this particular case said that they did not recognise the jurisdiction of the court and that as far as they were concerned- 
 It is obviously misreported again because this is one of the things that they were imprisoned over. But let us ask ourselves what is happening in this country. If one goes through the newspapers over the last year one can see the reports of demonstrations by the friends of the honourable member which have taken place. One can see the number of times that the courts of this country have been upset, where there have been demonstrations within the courts and where the courts have been occupied. One will find the same people, whether it be in Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane or anywhere else, and it is the same small coterie who are carrying out these attacks. We find that a political party goes as far as to raise in the national Parliament the rights of these particular men. I think that these men are not concerned about their rights. They are concerned to get the newspaper and television coverage which is granted to them so freely in this country at this time. This is the objective towards which they are working. I feel ashamed to think that a Party such as the one to which the honourable member for Kingston belongs has stooped so low. I would suggest that, in relation to the Budget, the Opposition may have a case. But it will never sell itself to the Australian people as long as it performs like this because the Australian people are concerned with the affiliations which are undertaken by some sections of the honourable member's Party. 
Let us go through the names of some of those concerned in this matter.  Mr HamelGreen  is in and out of court like a yo yo.  Mr Hetherington  Jones is in and out of court like a yo yo. He is in every demonstration.  His  name appears in the newspapers more frequently than does the name of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  Let us go further and examine what is happening in this country. Disruptive action against government and private buildings and the courts of the land has occurred in capital cities right throughout this country. This action has been taken by a small group, the same people on each occasion. They are not decent unionists. They are not unfortunate young lads who may have had hard luck and on whose behalf  onn  might rise and make a case. They are the people who do not recognise the laws of this country, who wish to pull down the laws of this country and who wish to overthrow the method of life in this country. They are being given able assistance by a considerable number of members of the Opposition. 
Let us remember the fire bombs that were thrown into the General Electric Co. building in Melbourne. Nobody seemed to be terribly concerned, lt appears that it is quite al) right in this country to throw petrol bombs into a building. It does not matter that there could be people in that building or that, if a fire broke out, those people could be killed. It would not matter if that fire spread to other buildings. These are the great friends of the Opposition and the people whom Opposition members will support whatever they do. 
Let us remember also the shots that were fired into the building of Unilever (Aust.) Pty Ltd, again by friends of the Opposition and people who are being supported by my young friend opposite. When an arrest was made in that case it was found that the persons concerned had petrol bombs in their car. They had the same offensive objects as did earlier attackers. Let us go further and recall when the Melbourne Stock Exchange was occupied by similar groups of young gentlemen. A fire was set on the floor of the Melbourne Stock Exchange, lt did not matter whether other people were present or whether lives could have been in danger. No concern is felt on the other side of the House about these matters. 
In September 1969 in Adelaide, 6 masked men entered a national service registration office during the lunch time break. One man was carrying a tomahawk. The others had wire cutters. They cut and wrenched out telephone wires. They pulled out drawers containing records and then poured animal blood from a container onto those records, the furniture and the floor. This is the sort of thing that these honourable gentlemen opposite are supporting. These people are all in the same group. On 25th April 1970, in Hobart, 27 shots were fired into a Department of Labour and National Service building. If this is the sort of thing that is to be tolerated in this country and if this is the sort of action which honourable members opposite are supporting, I am sure that they will be repudiated by the Australian people. Australians may be concerned about pensions. They may be concerned about the Budget. But I am sure that they will never ever take to a Party which seems to give support only to those who are out to break the laws of this country. 
There is no country in the world where the rights of the people are so clear as they are in Australia. I invite honourable members opposite to talk to people from overseas to verify this. Look at the rights which are given to these young students. Time and time again they come before a court. They are released on bail and nothing further is done. But unrest is becoming apparent at this moment in the Australian community because it appears that there is a law for these people and a different law for the common people. 
It may be that for once, although I think it is basic, the Government feels that the law is for all the people of this land whether one be a plumber's apprentice, whether one cannot read or write or whether one be a university student whose education is paid for by the public. If this action does not stop I think there will be a greater reaction from the ordinary people of this country that may well compel governments to take action which they have no desire to take. It is the ordinary people who are becoming concerned. It is the ordinary people who know that the protection of their homes, their children, their businesses and their way of life is under threat by certain organisations within this country. It does not give them reassurance when they find honourable members from the other side of the chamber not only playing a part with but leading organisations which are undertaking action such as breaking into buildings, throwing out records, disturbing people in their employment and the occupation of post offices so that ordinary people cannot go about their business. The pressure is not coming from Liberal supporters; it is coming from members who were formerly Labor supporters and who say: 'I would not have a bar of what is going on in the Labor Party at this time'. I suggest the honourable member for Kingston would use his time better if he called for mercy, leniency and justice for people who were more deserving of it. 
These gentlemen are glorying; they do not recognise our law. They are out to break it, to put it into jeopardy, and to see that it terminates. 
I find it rather difficult to follow the speech of the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  because he discussed so many matters on which I do not claim to be an authority. I found it difficult to understand whether he supported the Opposition's amendment or was against it. I cannot say that I found his plea for world government impressive in today's circumstances. 
Indeed, in what he said he left me with practically nothing on which to comment. However, he did say one thing that impressed me. lt is all very well to say it but it is difficult to know what to do about it. I refer to his suggestion that we require and should introduce secret ballots. I thought that this was a rather tender issue in the Australian Labor Party and in many of the unions. If the honourable member's suggestion were adopted, perhaps we would have less of the industrial turmoil that we have at the moment. So in this suggestion I give him full support. I am sure that in this respect other honourable members on this side of the Parliament give him full support and that most unionists would give him full support. We hope to hear more on this issue of a secret ballot  1  wish to say a few words about the Budget, which is the subject under discussion at the moment. [ make it quite clear that some of what i say will be critical. I expect that, as usual, I will get from the other side the catcall 'Are you going to vote against it?'. So I should like to make it clear right at the beginning that I do not intend to vote against it. I shall not vote for the amendment proposed by the Labor Party because in my opinion the amendment is ridiculous, lt is couched in terms which are those of an ambitious man who wishes to take control of this country in any circumstances. An analysis of the things he said, and more particularly of the things he did not say, reveals that to accept the amendment would lead to a situation that would be chaotic and dangerous. I, for one, would not follow his banner. Therefore  1  make it clear that whilst I may have some criticisms of the Budget, there is no possibility whatever of my following the leadership of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  It seems to me as well to make the point that the people of Australia should occasionally look at what has happened in other parts of the world. Most of the theories that are put up by the Opposition in respect of the economy have been tried by the United Kingdom Labour Government. 
If we look back over the last year or two we find that members of the Labour Cabinet in the United Kingdom were saying that unless their Party rethought some of its basic ideas it had no possibility of taking the United Kingdom out of the problems in which it was involved. Yet here in Australia we are having the same theories advanced - theories which have been disproved in the United Kingdom and which resulted in the people of that country throwing out the Labour Government. I suppose in all fairness it can be said that many of our young people have never lived under a Labor government. It might be fair and necessary at some stage for the good of the country that they should be given an opportunity for a short term to live under a Labor government It might be as well for them to consider the value of a stable economy and stable government and what that has meant to them in respect of employment, prosperity and all the other things that we enjoy in this country. Although sometimes I am dissatisfied with my boat, I am not likely to throw it aside in exchange for a leaky old craft with holes way below the Plimsoll, just because it represents something new to me. I do not think the people of Australia would do this either. 
When a Budget comes up everybody begins to think that it is Christmas all over again. Few seem to take into account the legislation which has been passed before the presentation of a Budget. Everybody expects the Christmas stocking to be filled again. Everybody expects to be given something for nothing. Everybody expects to pay less but get more. There is no thought of stability and of what might happen if industrial unrest gets beyond a certain stage. If overseas enterprise refused to come to Australia because of the instability of this country, would fewer subsidiary industries be created? Would it mean less employment for those whom honourable gentlemen opposite claim to represent? These are things that people must think of. When I listen to the Leader of the Opposition I often wonder, as was said to me on one occasion, whether the Opposition realises that its supporters can read and write, that they can see a situation and can see what the values are. 
When the Budget is presented everybody tells the Government what it must do. They say that we must have more schools, more hospitals, more social services, more defence, more subsidies, higher tariffs but less income tax, no sales tax, no payroll tax, tax exemption on this and tax exemption on that. As the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  said this morning, it is not the Government that is giving all these things; the money has to come from the taxpayer. If there is one thing that I resent it is members of Parliament or Ministers who say: 'We gave you that.' The clear fact is that they might have made the decision, but they had to find the money from the taxpayer. It is right that they should do so. There is nothing in this world and nothing in this country that we get free. We have to pay for it the same as anybody else. Nobody when making suggestions such as have come from honourable members opposite and from various pressure groups, however just their cause and however just may be the basis of their suggestions, will ever say where the money is to come from. If they say that this must be given or more must be given or less must be taken and we then say 1 agree, but tell me now where the money is alternatively to come from', they cannot think of anything. In that case they suggest something else, or there is another pressure group with a suggestion about the need for something else being increased. It becomes a matter of balancing the Budget. 
I agree that, in relation to the present economic situation, the Budget is a good one; but if I am asked whether I think it is a good Budget politically 1 must reply that I am not particularly impressed with some sections of it. I should like to refer to those parts of the Budget; but in doing so I am not being cynical, I am not expressing depression or showing disappointment as my friends in the Press gallery report or as some honourable members opposite make out. If one is a member of Parliament I presume one is supposed to use what little brain one has; I presume that one is supposed to use the little honesty that one may have; and I presume that one is supposed to make the suggestions which he believes are required to help the people in his electorate and the people of Australia. After having been a member of this House for 10 years, I wonder whether this is in fact really so and whether we are wasting our time here and should go back home and look after the chooks. 
The honourable member for Sturt has been a member of the House for only a short time, but I do rut think it will be very long before be is "back with his chooks. In respect to the deductions, I do not think that any honourable member, even on this side of the House, expected the Government to give the across the board deductions which it has given in the first year of the 3-year period promised by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton).  1 question whether it was necessary or wise to do so. Although I appreciate that the Prime Minister has honoured the promise which he made, I feel it would have been of greater benefit to those people who need assistance - the young married couples in the lower income group and those people with children at school who are buying a house - if the taxation schedule had been reformed in another way. I would prefer to see a greater deduction allowable for dependants, education expenses and many of the other items of expenditure which the breadwinner incurs. I think the Government made a mistake. I hope it will not be long before it readjusts the taxation schedule in favour of these people, because they are the ones who require assistance the most. Indeed, I think they require it urgently. 
I am not particularly impressed by the way in which the taxation scale has been adjusted. I would not have adjusted it to give a benefit to people who earn over $16,000 a year. Although a case could be made out for them, I think a better case can be made out for the people in the lower income group. This is where I would like to see the assistance given on this occasion. I believe that if the Government had not adjusted the scale this year in respect of the people who fall within the $16,000 to $32,000 income group it could have increased the age pension without upsetting the economy. I am disappointed that a larger increase was not granted in the age pension. I think an increase of 50c a week is too little. I have no doubt that most people in the community agree that a large increase in the age pension should have been granted in this Budget. 
I hope that the Government will in the near future grant a further increase in the age pension because, regardless of whether one may think that pensioners deserve to be kept by the taxpayers or they should have been more frugal in their working lives, many of them are in necessitous circumstances. I think we have a responsibility - and when I say 'we' I mean the taxpayers and not the Government - to tide them over the difficult years which they are now going through. In respect to social service benefits, I feel it is time that we went to the base root of the matter and had a look at the problems which are confronting us instead of increasing benefits by SOc or  $1  each year. Both sides of the House try to use social service benefits as a means of gaining political capital. 
As I see it, there are  3  problem areas. Firstly, there are the elderly people who went through the economic depression who, because of bad luck in those very stern years, were not able to save money; there are the people who have been hit by sickness; and there are the people who have been hit by misfortune. They are now in their sixties, seventies and eighties and are receiving a pension. The taxpayers have a responsibility to maintain these people in at least a reasonable condition during the time in which they live. Secondly, there are those people in their forties and fifties who have not been able to afford insurance who, perhaps through misfortune, have fallen into hardship and who will be, within another  10  or IS years, in the older age groups without adequate means of support in their non-earning years. 
You look it. I believe that the Government has to subsidise these people and encourage them and enable them to take out insurance which, in addition to a reduced means test, will allow them to receive some portion of the pension in their later life. 
But the most essential point is to make provision for the generations which are coming on and which are not yet in this condition. We should never again allow people to get into this condition. I believe that it is not beyond the possibilities and potentialities of this country to work out a scheme under which young people, when they first take up their job, are encouraged to take out an insurance policy, are subsidised by the Government perhaps and are enabled to make provision for the time when they will be  60  or  65  years of age, so that never again will we have people who have nothing, who have to depend on handouts from governments and who become tools of political parties. 
The Budget provision for payments to the States is good. It represents an increased amount, and I hope that many of the things that are required in the States in the fields of education and hospitals can be carried out. I oft-times think that too many of us want to be big fish in little ponds. In respect of education and hospitals we have to go back to the grass roots and look at the faults and the problems from the beginning. I contend that, particularly in respect of schools in the more closely settled areas - where there are no trees, there is no green grass, the schools are dilapidated and there is an increasing population of newcomers to Australia - the Federal Government, as a matter of priority, should give some moneys to the State governments to enable them to treat this as a matter of priority. This applies to improvements in my electorate, and in everybody else's electorate, in the field of education. But this cannot be done overnight because there are many other requirements and, as I have said, the money has to be found from the taxpayers. 
The next matter to which I wish to refer is industrial unrest. This is a matter that concerns me at this moment particularly, as it does every other Australian. I believe that in certain circumstances there are justifications for unions and workers to receive a better deal than they are receiving. But that is not so in all cases, and that fact should not be used as an excuse by one or some, who may wish to take over political control and who may wish to reduce the stability of this country, to bring down the prosperity of the country - in other words, to bring about a situation of chaos which may float him or them into office but may not necessarily be for the betterment of the people and workers of Australia. 
If I make a criticism of the Government it is that, when there is a realistic controller of a union who realises the arguments both for and against industrial action, who is prepared to discuss the problems of his workers or unionists and who suggests that on the penal clauses, for example, or some other issue something needs to be done, there is a tendency in government to say: 'After all, that is a conservative union; therefore we do not need to worry much about it'. It is not until a left wing or militant union comes into the picture and creates a general strike or a stoppage that the Government or the employers find that they can meet the demands or do meet the demands. This amounts to only one thing: The conservative unionist receives no support from the rank and file because his workers or his mates say to him: 'You did not gain it for us; it took the pro-Com, the militant, or whatever it may be, to bring about the desired result'. 
A matter involving the Merchant Service Guild was mentioned today. I do not think the members of the Guild had any desire to go on strike or to leave the ships. It appears to me that the Government was tardy in meeting what seem to be legitimate expenses in relation to the inquiry, although there may be good reasons for this which I do not know. The Seamens' Union said: 'Right, we will support you; let us go out on strike'. So we face a situation which in my opinion should never have occurred. 
The honourable member for Capricornia mentioned the Press. Perhaps this has nothing to do with the Budget but one of the things required in Australia at the moment is a fairer and more impartial Press which reports issues on the merits rather than from a political point of view. After being a member of this House for 10 years it is my opinion that there is too much political benevolence and political patronage: I will be friends with you as you are friends with me. It is to the disadvantage of this country. I did speak in this House last night. It was mentioned that the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  was to make a speech which might be replied to by an honourable member on this side of the House. I agree with the member of the Opposition who made the point that if it had not been mentioned not many members of the Press would have been in the gallery. There are now 6 pressmen in the gallery from whom will go forward reports of what is happening in the Parliament. Perhaps I wrong them but I wonder how many of them write shorthand. Reports of some of the issues raised and speeches made by honourable members on both side of the House amaze me at times. Members of the Press have come to me after I have made a speech and said: 'I understand you made a speech. Have you a copy of it?' I do not write speeches. Some honourable members do and they give out copies. Therefore members of the Press do not have to listen. I wonder what form of reporting the public gets from public meetings. Reporters come to me after meetings and say:  'Mr Jess,  have you a copy of your speech? I did not take it down.' When I tell them that I have not a copy they ask: "Will you give me an idea of what you said?' That is what I read in the newspapers. 
I refer now to the editorials which have appeared in the Press in recent days and weeks since the Prime Minister announced that perhaps legislation would be enacted in respect of demonstrations and such happenings. One editorial said that this was to be a law and order Budget. One of the headlines read: 'Hard line on demonstrations'. The Press has not yet heard what this legislation is to contain. It does not have an idea of what is intended. Yet if one looked through editorials and other newspaper reports one would think there was need for fair amendment of the law in order to ensure that loopholes are covered so that people clearly know what their entitlements are. But to make out, as is being made out by sections of the Press and by the Opposition  -  I do not blame honourable members opposite because they have political motives - that these are to be oppressive laws is wrong. 
A law must be judged when it is introduced or enacted. It is then that people can come to an opinion. There is no suggestion that this proposed law is to stop people from holding legitimate demonstrations or taking part in legitimate protests. I for one would not support such a law. However, there is a requirement in this country - and I am sure the people agree - for clarification as to how far people can break or abuse the law and abuse the rights of other people by preventing them from going about their affairs or by creating incidents so that industry and business or private matters cannot be conducted. When private homes are being assailed in certain circumstances and when people, as I said last night, throw fire bombs into buildings so that a building could catch alight causing loss of life, or even cause a city block to be set alight, I feel we should be concerned. There are some who say that we should not be concerned. I think that perhaps a more reasonable judgment by members of the Press would be a good thing. 
I remember that some time ago 1 had a small part to play in a certain incident. At the time a member of the Press wrote an article about those who would oppose the Government or who had made themselves unpopular. The article said that so-and-so had done this in1941 and so-and-so had done that in 1949, and that they had since retired and left the Parliament. I oft times wonder after reading such articles in the Press whether pressmen expect a member of Parliament to act as he thinks he should act; whether one is required as a member of Parliament to raise the things he considers to be important, not for his ego or bis benefit, but because they require action in this country. 
It appears to me that when a member of Parliament acts in that way he is assailed in  sections of the Press  as a rebel, as a ginger grouper, as somebody moving against stable government, or whatever may be the Press description. After the Voyager' incident the Press article to which 1 have referred speculated on how long I would last in the Parliament, on how long I would be prepared to stay. Last night 1 made a speech. It may be considered by some members of the Opposition or of the Press that I have a tendency to become emotional. Perhaps that is true, but there is one thing to be remembered. I say what I say because I believe it. I do not attempt to curry favour with the Press or anybody else. Sometimes I question whether it is worthwhile. I have come to wonder whether it is not better, and if one is not expected as a member of Parliament, to just say yes or just say no, and never to think. 
I am led to that belief by a reading of Press articles and the lack of encouragement they contain for other members of this Parliament who are trying, as they see it, genuinely to improve the Parliament They may be wrong, but they get little encouragement and a lot of criticism. It seems to me sometimes that the safest way to act and to become one of the best members of Parliament is never to say anything, because the member who does not say anything does not say anything wrong. and the member who does nothing does nothing wrong. 1 was thrilled the other night to find that 2 members of the Opposition voted as they did on an issue which concerned the Public Works Committee and the Melbourne Airport runway. They had on the Committee, on a non-partisan viewpoint, decided that certain things would be done. Although their Party voted against the motion before the House they decided to stand by their word and to vote with this side of the House. I thought that was hopeful and I give them full marks for their action. But too rarely does it happen in this House. 
I will conclude by giving an example of what I mean about the Press. I am not criticising all members of the Press, but I do say that it is my belief that there is political patronage which, frankly, concerns me very much. I wonder sometimes how much that is printed is true, and how much the people are occasionally being fooled. A pressman writes an article which may be published throughout Australia. Everybody says: 'It must be true because I read it in the Press'. I will not name the newspaper or the pressman I wish to quote in this instance. The article with which I am concerned is headed: 'Who will lead the rebels?'. It goes on with the usual verbiage which it seems must come out when pressmen have nothing else to write about. Then it states: 
Not that Kent Hughes was even a threat to Gorton as such, but he represented the right wing point of view, an abrasive restless ginger group of malcontents. 
I suppose some of us are occasionally malcontents; it is hard to tell in this place -  who constitute a threat to stable government.  In other words we are against stable government. Therefore, I presume we should never open our mouths. The article goes on:  and party room harmony - 
Well, I guess I have been responsible for some of that. The report goes on:  with some aspects of Government policy and a leaning to extreme right wing policies in foreign affairs. 
That may be so but itis not general to all of us. But we are all typed in that category. I do not think I am of the right - I think frequently I am of the left. The article labels me and the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  as rebels. 
That may be legitimate, but in rather offensive terms it refers to the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  as potentially a rebel leader. Although 1 regard the honourable member as a magnificent leader 1 do not regard him as a rebel. The honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  also is mentioned. Any honourable member or anybody who knows anything about this House would regard that article as the product of somebody's wildest dreams. But this view is conveyed to the public and accepted as the truth. I give this as an example. I hope that the Press in future will realise that it has a responsibility to all members of this House. Until reporting is fairer we will get nowhere. 
 I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of electors of La Trobe respectfully showeth: 
That they are gravely concerned at what they consider to be the adverse effect on moral standards in the Australian community of the increasing portrayal and description of obscenity, sexual licence, promiscuity and violence in films, books, magazines, plays and, to a lesser extent, television and radio programmes. 
That their concern arises partly from the fact that historians, such as J. D. Unwin and Arnold Toynbee, have shown that nearly all nations which have perished have done so because of internal moral decay; and partly because obscenity and indecency are contrary to the teachings of Christianity which is the acknowledged religion of more than 80 per cent of Australians, besides being 'part and parcel of the law of the land' (Quick and Garran in 'Commentaries on the Australian Constitution', page 951); and 
That, in accordance with the findings of the Australian Gallup Poll, published in the Melbourne Herald on 14th November, 1969, the majority of Australian citizens want censorship either maintained or increased. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that honourable members of the House of Representatives will seek to ensure that Commonwealth legislation bearing on censorship of films, literature and radio and television programmes is so framed and so administered as to preserve sound moral standards in the community. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
1 am not sure that I do not agree with the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen),  but I probably hold my views for different reasons. I frankly admire the research that the honourable member must have done and the knowledge he has gained about  Mr Gregory,  lt appears that  Mr Gregory  has become a national hero. He probably is; I do not know. 1 had never heard of him before and I do not think anybody in Australia had heard much about him until today. 
 I am suggesting that it does appear that he has suddenly become a national idol and hero. Here is another gentleman that the Australian Labor Party is coming out to support as a person who should be encouraged to enter this country. This has become another red hot issue. I have used the term 'red hot* and honourable members may take it whichever way they like. 1 think we are in a rather embarrassing predicament. Perhaps  I  am rather sceptical or cynical. The honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  made some very powerful statements about the magnificent Vietnam Mortorium Campaign which he was going to organise, lt seemed to me that that, was becoming his prime objective. 1 am not suggesting that he was neglecting his duties as a member of Parliament, but it did seem to me that the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign was taking up most of his time. Honourable members will remember his statements. I presume that he does not deny them because they were reported in the Press and were heard on television programmes. He said that he was going to have the greatest ever moratorium celebration. He said that he would invite members of the National Liberation Front, the Vietcong and North Vietnamese to come to Australia. It did not matter that our boys were fighting them in Vietnam or that at the same time as these gentlemen were being feted and hosted in Australia they possibly were suffering casualties. This did not seem to matter. I presume that the Labor Party does not deny that these statements were made by the honourable member for Lalor. 1 presume that my friend,  Mr McCallum,  will not deny them, because the honourable member did make them and they were given publicity. So if I appear to be slightly cynical about Dick Gregory and if it appears to me that Dick Gregory is the best that the honourable member for Lalor could get when he was in the United States to get somebody for his moratorium campaign, I suppose that is understandable. I do not think that the great protestors in the United States really would pay much attention to the honourable member. I think he was going to get some famous actress to come out and that she was going to lead the band down Bourke Street. But it appears that she had some other engagement so he could not get her. 
That could be much more important, I agree, if not more risky. We are in an embarrassing situation. I think that the country has a right to look at people who are coming into it with the objective of interfering in the politics or other affairs of that country. I agree that we have let certain people come in, like Peter, Paul and Mary, who are close friends of the honourable member. I remember that one of them was involved in a small incident in the United States. It was probably something that I thought was a bit peculiar when I read it. No doubt the honourable member thought it was an everyday affair. So we let him in. I am not against that. I just wonder why we have to buy trouble all the time and why we have to let all these souls in that the Opposition wants. Let us look at them. There was a professor of the South Australian university who was a member of the Stern gang. There have been various members of the Communist Party who wanted to go here, there and everywhere. Maybe it was wrong. I do not know. 
These were the big issues for the Opposition who are not interested in any other supporting parties. Let me refer again to the honourable member for Lalor. This is where we have been embarrassed. 
If my young friend would go back to Bendigo, clip his ears back and endeavour to act like a member of Parliament I think he will be here longer. Let us return to the honourable member for Lalor, who is an efficient parliamentarian, not just a hack. If Dick is not allowed to come here because he might be, as reported in the Press and as the National Union of University Students has said - whether they are right or wrong, God knows, I do not - coming out here for the Moratorium Cam paign I say that he should be banned. The honourable member for Lalor has just returned from a triumphant tour of the United States. When he went he said he was going there to work for the overthrow of the Nixon Government and that he was going to support the peace demonstrations, etc. He may not have created a ripple. I would not know. But if the United States did not ban the honourable member for Lalor why should we ban Dick? 
I remember how honourable members opposite, with pride on their faces, sat there with breasts moving in and out like pouter pigeons when the Leader of the Opposition said that he was going abroad on one of the regular trips that he makes whenever the Federal Executive of the Australian Labor Party meets so that he will be out of the country. The honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  will appreciate this because we have seen the action he took while the Leader of the Opposition was away. The Leader of the Opposition said that the reason he was going was to speak to the national leaders of the great countries of our great and powerful allies. If my memory serves me correctly, he said that he hoped to have discussions with the  President  of the United States in depth. I emphasise the words 'in depth'. What happened? I do not know. There could be criticism. I do not know. Perhaps the Leader of the Opposition has got a gripe. Perhaps the Department of External Affairs could not make him out to be important enough. Perhaps the  President  of the United States did not want to see him. Perhaps we have not heard that he did have a meeting. How can I get back to the honourable member for Lalor? He was allowed to go to the United States; he was allowed to overthrow the United States Government; he was allowed to achieve his objective, and if Dick was all he could get to come back, frankly I think the Government should let Dick in. I think he will be fairly harmless. The Opposition made a bit of a mess of it, but I will go along with the Opposition if it thinks that this is all that important. I do not think that the people will. 
 Unfortunately I was gagged by one of my colleagues during the debate on the last motion. If it is to be the purpose of private members in future to gag debates then I may use the same device. I disagree entirely with the honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon)  and with others who share his views. I shall give one illustration only. I refer to the debate on the Estimates. Formerly each member was entitled to speak for15 minutes on the estimates of each department, but it is now suggested that we should have 10 minutes only. In the Defence estimates we have the Department of Defence, the Department of the Navy, the Department of the Army, the Department of Air, the Department of Supply and auxiliary services. If our time limit is reduced from 15 minutes to 10 minutes we will have less than 2 minutes for each of the Service departments on which we spend millions of dollars. Is it suggested that 2 minutes is adequate for each of these departments? Quite frankly I think that some of the suggestions I have heard here tonight would make most magnificent comedies if they were developed by P. G. Wodehouse or Joan Butler. Further, I suggest that if the time spent over the last several days on debating how to run this House had been spent on important legislation we would have saved many more hours than we will save under the present proposal. 
That remark is indicative of the attitude of the Opposition. Do not honourable members opposite know what it is proposed that they shall give away? Do they not realise what effect it will have on them if an issue does arise? Let me take a point about the adjournment with an automatic cut-off at 12 o'clock. One day there may be an issue that the Opposition cannot bring on during the day and may wish to raise as an issue of importance at night. Opposition members who support the present proposition would be selling out that right. At present we have an ineffective Opposition and honourable members opposite are making sure that they continue to be ineffective. But the day could come when supporters of the present Government are in Opposition. Some of the new members should realise that they are proposing to give away their opportunities as private members and as representatives of the people. I think that the debate tonight has been a farce. I agree with the views of the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  in this respect. 
Yes, the estimates of each department. 
Yes, and in the Defence estimates we would have to deal with 5 departments. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes, I do indeed. Over the air I heard the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  refer to certain young Turks and he named certain members of Parliament. He said they were the forerunners of the Nazi party. All 1 can say to the honourable member is that my father died in a military hospital having fought against the Germans, my brother lost his life in Tobruk fighting against the Germans, I was in the Army, and I wonder where the honourable member was when they were fighting against the Nazis. 
Will the Minister for the Army give the House information concerning the attack on the Queensland University drill hall? Will he advise what action is intended against those who broke into this military property? Can the Minister assure the House that every safeguard is being taken to see that arms are properly secured in all drill halls so that weapons are not available to such people? 
I desire to ask the Minister for Health a question. I understand that from 1st November a patient going to a specialist has to be referred by a general practitioner who will use a special form. Can the Minister advise me whether those people with permanent illnesses who already have a referral from a general practitioner will now be expected to go back to a general practitioner? If this is so, will it not mean additional expenditure to them and also to the hospital benefit associations? Will the Minister advise me of the policy on this matter? 

 - Mr Speaker, for the sake of those members of the House who were not here this morning and for the sake of those who may be listening to this debate, I think it might be as well for me to give a resume of the sequence of events that has occurred and that has led up to this debate. It will be remembered that, in the House yesterday, questions were asked firstly in relation to photographs taken at the Moratorium demonstration last Friday outside Parliament House. A considerable amount of debate followed and points of order were taken in relation to the answer given by the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Nixon)  and in relation to other matters. Then, a further question was asked, this time of the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton),  concerning a statement made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  to a Press conference about matters which were supposed to have occurred at a meeting of the Labor Party Caucus. From those events has come the debate of today. 
I heard today and yesterday questions as to whether people are telling the truth, the importance of the truth and the need to protect honourable members against untruth. The debate yesterday culminated with questions as to whether the Leader of the Opposition had appeared at and addressed the Moratorium meeting here last Friday at which were Vietcong flags.' If one studies the Hansard report of yesterday's proceedings one finds that what the Leader of the Opposition said was that the Vietcong flags were not there, or that he did not see them, or that he did not know they were there and that they must have been to the back of him if they were there. 
I can say only this - and I will say it as I put my hand on the Bible I have here in case I am accused of being a liar in an endeavour to dispute what I am saying: At approximately 10 minutes past 10 last Friday morning, I moved out down the front steps of this House. The Leader of the Opposition was standing in the centre of the median strip surrounded by the panting Press waiting for the march to arrive. On the right of him were 2 young people who, I presume, were students with a flag of red and pale blue with a gold star in the centre - the flag of the Vietcong. As I crossed the road, the Leader of the Opposition turned about and moved into the House. 
In the centre of the road, 1 said to him: What is the matter, Gough? Are you embarrassed by being beside Vietcong flags?' He replied to me: 'No. Were they there? I did not see them.' I accept that statement without a doubt. But to say that he did not know they were there is a very different matter. He also stated that he had to go into the House because of question time and that, when the march arrived, he would be out to address those gathered. 
Furthermore, I state that, in front of his nose, at a distance of between 12 feet and 20 feet, at approximately i o'clock on that day, was a young lady, with blonde hair, a red sweater and blue jeans with an unfurled Vietcong flag. This is unimportant. But if we are to talk about truth, let us stick to the truth. I do not think this is important, i do not blame the Leader ot the Opposition. He is not responsible. But do not let us have crocodile tears about truth one minute and not the next. 
But the issue is not that. The issue, if we look at the speeches of this morning from the Opposition, has not even been touched. The Prime Minister stated that the statement that the Leader of the Opposition gave to a Press conference of what I presume was discussed in confidence in the Caucus of the Labor Party has implications for Australia and for the Australian nation. He said that the statement has greater implications because it was mads by the alternative Prime Minister of this country and that must give it major importance. Let me take issue with  Mr Frank  Chamberlain and various other members of the Press who say that this is only a political scuffle, that it is of no important and that question time should not be used for such matters. In my opinion there is no more important issue confronting this Parliament and this country because it is a question of the future of government, the future of authority and the future standing  of  a  government in Australia, whether  it be Liberal, Labor or anything else, which has been elected by democratic processes. 
We now have the alternative Prime Minister of this country lending his weight and standing to the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  and those others who have been preaching the right to break the law when the law does not suit one's convenience. The honourable member for Lalor made an impassioned speech on his stand and outlook. I do not think that anyone here was confused or did not understand clearly beforehand his stand and outlook. We have no doubt, I think the people of Australia have no doubt and I am sure the Opposition has no doubt where he stands in political spectrum. However he is not the Leader of the Opposition, much to his regret. He is only a shadow Minister. But when the alternative Prime Minister of this country makes statements of this kind it is a very different thing. 
Then we heard from the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart).  I have the deepest sympathy for him because I have never seen a man who appeared to be more uncomfortable than he was. We are not attacking the reputation of the Leader of the Opposition in respect of his service to the country in war. We are not attacking his father. We are not attacking bis father-in-law. We share a high regard and respect for his wife. We are not interested in what schools his children attend and with whom they go. That was nothing more than a red herring to take the minds of the people and of the members of this Parliament off the matter that we are discussing. We are not even discussing conscription. As the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  has said, the amendment moved by the Opposition has allowed those honest Labor men who are uncomfortable to come in now and vote for it whereas otherwise they would have had to vote in support of their leader. 1 believe that the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  will follow me in the debate. Always in these debates the tactics adopted by the Opposition are obvious. You put in the comic. You put in the man with the warm feeling towards the Leader of the Opposition, his loyal supporter, the man who never whispers in the Library, the man who never leaks what happens in Caucus. I think that the Leader of the Opposition could well do some research into who has put him in this position. He is in this position because someone leaked from the Labor Party Caucus. I regret, and I am sure he regrets, that he did not make statements on what happened in Caucus. 

 Mr Kennedy I was not interjecting 
The interjections are not worrying me,  Mr Speaker,  because 1 think that they show the discomfort of honourable members opposite. Let me go back to what I was saying. If someone had not leaked the story from caucus the Leader of the Opposition would not have had to make a Press statement and he would not have been in this position. No doubt the honourable member for Grayndler will call people Nazis and Fascists, as he did previously. He always calls those, who seem to have served this country against Nazism and Fascism, Nazis and Fascists, but I will leave it to him to explain his own record. No doubt he will refer to certain women's fashion magazines, which will get a light laugh throughout the House. But it still does not lessen the importance of the present situation. 
Let me review the situation. I have a friend who returned from Indonesia only a few days ago. He was in Djakarta during the Moratorium demonstration in Australia. In the Indonesian newspapers were photographs of the riots, Vietcong flags and the various members who participated in that affair. He said to me: 'I gained the impression in Indonesia that there had been Molotov cocktails, a revolution, and that this whole country was in riot.' This is the impression that is created. This is the intent of certain people - not all of them by any means - who wish to bring about such demonstrations and effectively use the photographs as propaganda overseas. But let us look at it not as a question as to who wins the Senate election or who is important in this House, whether he be Labor or Liberal, but as it affects Australia. Indeed, let us look at what impetus it could give to the enemies of this country and to the enemies of those with whom we stand in other countries. Let us look at what the effect could be on our own troops in Vietnam and on the 99.8 per cent of Australian youth who answer the call and who have brought to the Australian Army one of the proudest records it has ever held. One never hears honourable members opposite refer to these matters. According to the Opposition, it is the .02 per cent of youth who are our national heroes. This also appears to be the opinion of many members of the Press of this country. 
But what is the situation? Our enemies now can say that the alternative Prime Minister of Australia has come out and given this advice to those in the Army and to those who, if they had had a genuine conscientious objection, would have been excused by the court from serving, or who, if they had had a conscientious objection solely to serving in Vietnam, could have enlisted in the Citizen Military Forces. But because they wish to make martyrs of themselves, because they wish to bc cast in this light, the Leader of the Opposition says to them: 'Carry out your registration and put in a written report that you will not serve if sent to Vietnam. When you have had your medical examination, put in another written report. But if you are inducted into the Army and the order is given by your battalion commander to move at 0900 hours, you stand fast and refuse to obey that order.' 
I think that there arc many views on conscription. I think there is a confused situation, but that is not what we are discussing. We are discussing the future situation in this country in relation to law and order. 1 know that my friend,  Mr Maccallum,  who is one who seems to write so favourably about law and order, has written an article this morning about the Leader of the Opposition. The article is headed: 'Whitlam was only waiting to be asked'. What a pity he has not waited to be asked for anything else before. But the article contains the following statement by  Mr Whitlam: 
If you put it under headlines saying 'Gorton 
Says Mutiny' it will have a bad effect, but if you see it in the context of Gorton going on about riot and violence and disorder and anarchy, it will rebound on the Government . . . 
I presume that is his instruction. That is his plea to  Mr MacCallum  and others. All I would suggest to  Mr MacCallum  is that when he puts his next article in the paper as well as showing his beard the drawing should go down to his navel and show the Vietnam Moratorium badge which he so clearly wears in this House because it is indeed a matter, I think, of great concern to the people of Australia. 
This morning we heard a question relating to students from Cambodia but not a thing has appeared in the Press. Nobody was aware that they were here but if  Mr Dick  or  Mr Gregory  or somebody else came out here with his guitar he would he given a good press coverage and he would appear on 'Four Corners' and 'This Day Tonight*. Lel us not be under any misapprehension. As one famous American general said in respect to Vietnam 'The North Vietnamese have the most powerful propaganda machine in the world but it does not cost them a cent' because indeed certain sections only of the publicity media, and now the Opposition, and now even further the Leader of the Opposition, appear to be carrying out perhaps unwittingly what they most seek to gain and that is the ineffectiveness of our defence forces, the lack of morale of our people and the complete lying down of our will to resist. 
In conclusion I want to deal with another Press conference given by the Leader of the Opposition.  I  do not think today has been his day. The Leader of the Opposition gave a Press conference on the Macquarie radio network again supporting law and order and again encouraging the young men in Vietnam who serve this country. I think the text of that interview should be read by all in Australia because it is indicative of how this man's ego and desire for aggrandisement and position has allowed his sense of values to be completely lost and how, in his desire to gain office, he has, I think, lost what standing and what outlook he ever had. If I had a wife, if I had children and if I were all that the honourable member for Lang had said I would indeed wonder when I looked at myself in the mirror. In regard to police in New South Wales the Leader Opposition had this to say. 1 quote only sections of the interview but the meaning will be seen by all. He said: 
I fear the trouble is that some of the men from Vietnam who are now in uniform are bringing discredit on the Police Force. 
So it is the returned soldier in the Police Force who is responsible. He went on to say: 
They think that they have got back  a few  thugs- 
He is referring to the police who he claimed had told him this. who have been corrupted by the violence of that war. 
What a beautiful statement from a leader of an Opposition party in this country! This question was asked of him: 
. Why should it happen to a policeman? 
The Leader of the Opposition replied: 
They have the opportunity, haven't they? No, I think we have got to face the fact that there is a bit of an upsurge of violence as people get back into civilian life. You look at some of the pretty grisly murders . . . 
What a magnificent statement to make about young men who have served this country in Vietnam. He went on to say: 
. I think it was at Penrith where a soldier went home from a club with a woman and strangled her. 
What a magnificent statement. How good for moral. He went on to say:  . . expressed this view to me that the police force in New South Wales on this occasion had been besmirched by the conduct of some of these young constables who had come back from Vietnam. 
I would dare him to attend a parade of a national service battalion at any time in the future indeed. He went on to say: 
. But there are just a few of these fellows who have been corrupted- 
He said:  . . But there are just a few of these fellows who have been corrupted by their experiences in Vietnam. That is allI am saying. . . . But some of these young fellows did respond to provocation in a way that no decent policeman should. 
I think this is a most contemptible statement made by a political leader of a party and an alternative government in this country and I think the seriousness of this matter can not be expunged by a comic recitation from the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  or the platitudes of the honourable member for Lang. The responsibility is with the Leader of the Opposition to state clearly now where he stands and whether, if he is Prime Minister, we and all others will be given the right to break any law that we do not like. He should tell us where this will lead and what it may mean to my wife and my 3 young children and the other young children of this country. 

 - Mr Speaker, 1 wish to make a personal explanation. 
I have been misrepresented. The Leader of the Opposition, in his speech, stated that I had tabled a photograph which had been tampered with and he quoted the 'Canberra Times' which shows 2 photographs. I point out to you,  Sir, that  if anybody with any intelligence looks at these 2 photographs he will see that the Leader of the Opposition may be standing in similar positions but his head is facing in entirely different directions. He is talking to different people. There is no motor cycle in the top photograph. The car is different and the bottom photograph has no relationship whatsoever to the photograph which I submitted. 
I ask the Minister for the Army the following question: ls it a fact that since 1964 deductions have been made from the pay of the Pacific Islands Regiment? Is it a fact that the Army is carrying on the establishment of the regiment various troops who are due for retirement? Has a pension scheme been implemented yet? If not, what are the reasons for the lack of implementation? 
1 ask a question of the Minister for Defence, ls it a fact that an inquiry has been in progress for some time into the consolidated rates of pay of senior officers of the Citizen Military Forces? Is it a fact that the last consolidation of the rates of pay was made in 1962? What is the reason for the delay? When does the Minister expect a decision to be announced in respect of this matter? 
I desire to ask the Minister for External Affairs a question. There have been reports that the Prime Minister of Malaysia, Tun Razak, has made certain statements regarding Malaysia's relations with mainland China. IS the Minister in a position to give the House any information relating to this matter? 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. The honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant),  I am sure unintentionally, used the phrase that 'the honourable member for La Trobe sneered at select committees'. What I said was that there were so many select committees in the Senate at this stage and so many Estimates Committees that most honourable senators were sitting on 2 or 3 and that a joint select committee in respect to this matter would take many years before it could reach any conclusions. That is not sneering at select committees. 
I ask the Minister for Customs and Excise a question. It has been reported to me that chemists are concerned at the increasing demand for hypodermic syringes made to them by young people. Is there any check or control on such sales? Should some control be introduced to ensure that only people with a legitimate need - doctors, dentists, nurses, diabetics, etc - are supplied? 
I have listened with great interest to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  and I am in agreement with many of the points that he has made. I think it may be admitted that during my period in this House one of my main interests has been the terms and conditions of service in the 3 Services. It is interesting to note the concern in the Services over the terms and conditions under which members serve. I believe it is necessary, as the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition said, to examine the morale of the Services today. In my opinion in the 10 years I have been in this Parliament and over a long period of parliamentary government in Australia the Defence Services have never been understood and have never had the consideration that they should have had from governments or from oppositions. 
It is interesting that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has now decided to take a great interest in the Defence Services. However, if one goes back over the debates during the years when the Australian Labor Party was in government and since that Party has been in opposition one can see how little interest members of the Labor Party have shown and how rarely, if ever, conditions of service have been brought up by them. In fact, the records show that the majority of their statements are almost aimed at lowering the conditions of services. Members of the Opposition have made reference to 'brass hats' when talking about officers. They have referred to officers as people dressed in uniforms who glide around in cars. Therefore, I cannot take seriously the matter raised by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. It is my intention in the Estimates debate today to speak about the terms and conditions of services. When I speak during that debate I intend to draw to the attention of honourable members the fact that a defence statement made by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  many months ago has not been debated. I have heard of no pressure from the Opposition to have it debated. It is claimed that this defence statement is the most far reaching that we have had presented in this House, but there has been no demand from the Opposition to discuss it. 
A ministerial statement was made last session by the Minister for the Army  (Mr Peacock)  on the Royal Military College. However, this has not been debated and I have not heard any interest in this matter expressed by the Opposition. Today during the Estimates debate we will be discussing the 6 Defence Services. Honourable members will each be allowed 10 minutes in which to debate those estimates. This means that we will have 1 minute 50 seconds to speak on each Defence Service. I have not heard the Opposition complain about this. When we look at the Notice Paper we find that there has not been one move by the Opposition to discuss matters relating to defence. I contend that there has been delay. I contend and I have contended over the years that I have been here that there has been a lack of understanding of what it means to be in the Services. There has been a lack of understanding of what it means to be an officer, an NCO or a serviceman who has to move from State to State and from theatre to theatre, with consequent disruption of family life. The Opposition has never objected to the fact that a serviceman has to live in housing commission houses while his counterpart in civilian life, who might have gone to school with him, is living in a nice home somewhere else. The Opposition has never raised this point. 
I give credit to the Minister for Defence - and I do not give credit when I do not think it is deserved. I think the Minister has done a good job. I think he has endeavoured to move the Defence (Conditions of Service) Committee to bring forward quick decisions. It is interesting to realise that already this year Service pay has been increased by $30m. This is not a bad record. I accept the contention that in the past there has not been sufficient Service representation on the various committees. I think this is a reasonable complaint. It has been pointed out that on these committees there is always a representative from the Treasury, from the Department of Defence or from the Department of External Affairs. If members of the soldiery are asked a question they are allowed to put in their oar but otherwise they sit on the sideline in silence. I have heard no objection to this from the Opposition. 
It fills me with horror and dismay to hear the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition talk about select committees. When he does this I do not think that he is speaking with the knowledge that he should have. When we look at this question of select committees we find that every senator in the Senate is a member of about two select committees and a member of one of the Estimates Committees which have been established. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition talks about the delay which may be occasioned by this inquiry being conducted by an independent committee, on which will be Service representatives and people who have served and have known or do know the factors and conditions which affect a serviceman's life. He says that a delay will be occasioned by the appointment of an independent committee because it will not be able to submit a report within 12 months. He claims that a select committee would be able to submit a report in a much quicker time. I think that is absolute rubbish. 
At the present time, together with the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, I am a member of the Joint Committee on the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Legislation. We are finding that it is difficult to arrange a full Committee meeting because senators and others are members of other select committees. We find that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition - I do not blame him for this - has other duties to perform and that it is not always possible for him to be in attendance at Committee meetings. On the Committee are three senators who are standing for re-election at the forthcoming Senate election, and therefore their prime objective is to get re-elected. So the Committee cannot sit. If the Senate result should be as Labor hopes it will be, but I am confident it will not be, am I to believe that the Senate, with the present Opposition in control, will not endeavour to create chaos in this House? Is it not possible that next year could be one of the most vital years in parliamentary history? Do I take it that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition will want the proposed committee to press on and that Labor senators will be allowed to be absent from the Senate in order to conduct inquiries which, of necessity, will have to be held throughout Australia? I think that is absolute rubbish. 
The Minister has decided that there should be an importial committee, not a political committee. Let us not think that politics do not enter into select committees; they do. It will be an impartial committee under the chairmanship of a distinguished judge. There will be businessmen and servicemen on the Committee and they will have one duty, and one duty only to perform - that is, to get to the hard core of the question of rates and pay and conditions in the Services. I accept one point which the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has made, that is, that those things that are in the pipeline in respect of conditions of service and on which decisions are about to be made should not be delayed. If the Treasury or anybody else decide that because a committee had been set up we should delay a decision in respect of such matters as temporary rental allowances and educational allowances which are presently in the pipeline, I believe that this Parliament - I am sure the Minister and I would hope the Government - would see that the decision was not put into effect. 
This could be the most far-reaching inquiry into the Services ever conducted. I think that the method of endeavouring to adjust the pay scales between the Services and civilian industries has not been successful. I believe that it has created problems. It has not taken into account the facts concerning a servicemen's life. It has not taken into effect the officer-other rank relationship. It has not taken into effect the fact that at the present time certain engineers of non-commissioned officer rank, with diploma degrees, are receiving higher rates of pay than officers with graduate degrees. There are anomalies. Let it also be realised that we have the technical arms of the Services - the signallers, the medicos, the electrical and mechanical engineers and so on - who are given high rates of pay. But at the present time the infantryman, the rifleman, is to a certain extent at the lower end of the pay scale. But surely everybody realises that all these specialists are there basically in time of war to do one thing, that is, to service the rifleman who is in time of war the most important man in the whole team. I think that these are the things into which there has to be a deep and full inquiry. 
I welcome the Minister's statement and I think that the Services will welcome it. I think that the Services should be reassured that things such as allowances will not be held up pending this inquiry. There is no reason why they should be held up. Let this be the fullest inquiry and let it be impartial. I agree that its findings should be made public. I would object if, at the end of the inquiry, the findings were not made public. I think that the hearings could well be held in camera, but the report must be made available to this Parliament 
I conclude by saying, as I said before, that the appointment of a select committee comprising members of this House and of the Senate, under the conditions which obtain in the Parliament at the moment, would be detrimental to the whole question. Although the Deputy Leader of the Opposition said that it would take this independent inquiry 12 months to make its investigations, I guarantee that we would not get a convincing and realistic result from a select committee in under 3 years. Some of the select committees that are operating at present, such as the committee that is inquiring into aircraft noise, seem to have been going for an incredibly long time. I think that the servicemen should be reassured that this matter is now to be looked into and that the other matters - such as disturbance allowance and the educational allowance, about which I will speak when we are debating the estimates for the Defence Department - about which they are concerned at the moment are at present under review and close to a decision. I should like the Minister to stress that these matters will not be held up pending the overall review. 
The Minister says that this is part of the decision. I welcome his statement and I oppose the Opposition's amendment. The amendment is nothing more than a political manoeuvre, and in my opinion it would be completely detrimental to achieving a quick result for the soldiers, who deserve it. 
There is little with which I could disagree in what the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  has said. We are now dealing with the Defence estimates for which the total proposed expenditure is $1,024,480,300. Honourable members are allowed 10 minutes each in which to discuss these estimates. I raised this matter when we were discussing the new hours of sitting and the reduction of time for speeches on the Estimates. We are concerned not only with the estimates for the 6 Defence Departments. As I said when I spoke last Friday on the Defence Minister's statement the Parliament has yet to discuss what is claimed to be the most far reaching statement on defence. That statement was made in March, but this Parliament has not yet been given the opportunity to discuss it. Also, the Defence Report 1970 has been tabled. It covers considerable pages and contains much detail. But we have only 10 minutes in which to discuss these matters. The establishment of a joint Services college is being considered by the Government. 1 presume that Parliament will never discuss this matter until there is some agreement or decision. There are many matters concerned with defence but we have been given no time in which to discuss them. It is of great concern to me that this year this Parliament has hardly had a defence debate. What can one say in 10 minutes? 
In my opinion this Parliament has little interest in defence. 1 believe that the Government has played its luck hard for a very long time. Its luck has paid off. But I agree with the honourable member for Fremantle that the time is coming for a review of our defence policy from the top to the bottom. Anyone who can say that the world around us is a better world and a less troubled world is dreaming. I think for us to say in this House that all we have to worry about is the Vietnam situation and certain other incidental happenings is to be completely out of touch with reality. It is hard to assess where a small situation, such as the one which flared up in Jordan, could have led. Who knows where the Israeli- Arab situation will end? Who knows what great powers will be involved or what side issues may flow should such a war eventuate? Look at what is happening in Canada. Who would have said a week or so ago that the emergency forces would be called out and that the country would be close to civil war. 
As far as I can see, Australia's planning at the moment is still in respect of Vietnam. We are still buying equipment which will be used for short hauls in a jungle environment. We are still equipping our defence Services for action in what has been called a brush fire situation - a situation where we had to get quickly to the point, hit and contain the offensive action. This was the most relevant factor in this type of operation. I think that we should look at the scene around us and look at what was stated by the honourable member for Fremantle, at the Soviet fleet in the Indian Ocean. I agree with him that for the time being the Soviet fleet is there for persuasive diplomatic tactics, and they will be most effective. - 
If we look at the nations abutting onto the Indian Ocean we find that the main bases, including Mauritius, which formerly were held by the United Kingdom, are now seemingly becoming less well held. Indeed, negotiations are being undertaken by the Soviet Union so that it can come in and lake over the bases. I think that the Soviet Union is exerting influence on India at the present time, ft is also exerting influence on Singapore  and Malaysia. Recently we have seen the statement of the Prime Minister of Malaysia, and 1 accept the explanation of the Minister for External Affairs  (Mr McMahon)  regarding that statement. But at the same time I could not blame Malaysia or Singapore should they decide that, in view of what they see happening in the Indian Ocean and when they compare that with what we perhaps are offering and the plan for co-operation which we have put forward, it might be as well to have a bob each way. 
The point I am trying to make is that I think the time has arrived when we now have to plan for a balanced defence force for the defence of the mainland of Australia in addition to whatever outside commitments we may have. Time may be on our side; we may be lucky again. But I think also that in view of the current world situation, we now have to plan for the ultimate defence of (his country, lt is all very well to say that our defence advisers say this and that they recommend that. In debates in this place I have always said that we hear only a fraction of what our defence advisers advise, because the section which is used for Government policy is extracted and that is put in as the ultimate. Having had some discussions with our defence advisers over many years, I know that this is the way it works. 
I agree with what the honourable member for Fremantle has said regarding our Navy. I think there is no doubt that we have to go much further and much quicker in our organisation of the Navy. The same comment applies to our Army. Instead of just concentrating on helicopters which will move small numbers of troops a short distance, I think we should be planning possibly for refurbishing for such units as the armoured division, so that we may have in 
Australia an effective force which could be moved to areas under threat. So far as our Air Force is concerned, we should be planning not to move troops to Vietnam in the aircraft carrier HMAS 'Sydney', but to move large numbers of troops to such areas as New Guinea quickly or, if the worst comes to the worst, to the northern peripheries of Australia. I think there is much that we have to do. 
I agree wholeheartedly with what the honourable member for Fremantle said about the Citizen Military Forces. I do not care what the experts tell me as to the present effectiveness of the CMF. I do not believe that what we have is the answer to the problems which might confront us. I agree with the honourable member for Fremantle that the CMF should be a reserve Army. As a reserve Army it should be equipped, it should have strength and it should be maintained in the industrial areas and in the capital cities. 1 understand that the Navy is to have an exercise in the Indian Ocean on 12th November, and that the exercise is to be called 'Swan Lake'. When I read the composition of the ships which are to take part in the exercise, I wondered what would happen if such an exercise was genuine; what would happen if, whilst all those ships were in the Indian Ocean, we were confronted with a situation in Melbourne or Sydney. We can flatter ourselves that the present situation in Indonesia is good, but there is no guarantee that such a situation will continue. We were great friends with Indonesia before confrontation. I remember that one Chief of the General Staff went to Indonesia and came back and said how wonderful the relations were. I think that he was presented with a Field Marshal's baton. I remember a Minister for Defence going there and wearing a uniform of Indonesia. I hope that Indonesia will succeed. I hope it will be enabled to succeed, but there are signs of pressure being applied there at the present time. 
Ten minutes does not allow one time to develop his arguments. I wanted to speak on terms and conditions of service. There is a lot I would like to say on that matter. I genuinely believe that the time has come for us to concentrate not only on Vietnam, which I think is closing off, and on the battalion in Malaysia. It comes down to some hard practical reorganisation in order to achieve an effective balanced defence force for the ultimate protection of Australia. No-one is to tell me that we necessarily have 7 or 10 years in which to plan, which according to certain experts, is the basis of defence planning. It takes time to buy equipment and to train officers and non-commissioned officers. In view of the present world situation I do not know that we in Australia necessarily have that much time. If we wish to protect this country we have to be prepared to make sacrifices. I wish that we had a bipartisan policy, as mentioned by the honourable member for Fremantle. 
 I address a further question to the Minister for Defence. A short time ago the Minister told me that he wis expecting from the Terms and Conditions Committee a recommendation regarding the pay of senior officers of the Citizen Military Forces. Has he received the recommendation? Can he advise the House what it is? ff not, can he advise the House when he will announce the decision? 
The Minister for Defence will remember that I have asked him  a  number of questions concerning the revised pay scale , for senior officers of the Citizen Military Forces. Is it a fact that this was last fixed in 1962? Is it a fact that  a  first submission was made in 1964? Is it  a  fact that it is now 1970? Is it a fact that unless something is done many of these officers may well resign from the CMF? Is this  tHe  method of assisting the CMF in recruiting? 
No, I am not blaming the Opposition. I am blaming us and I am saying that it is time we did something about it. I come to the temporary accommodation allowance. At the present moment, if an officer is sent to a capital city he may be offered a Housing Commission home in some industrial area, not that there is anything necessarily wrong with this, but I think he should be entitled to perhaps a higher standard of accommodation. A civil servant, when he is moved, is paid an allowance of about $17. An officer in the Services is paid about $10. I ask why this should be so. lt is my opinion that for far too long the Treasury and certain other areas in the administration of defence have been restricting the serving officer and the serving soldier to such an extent that he has become a second rate citizen. For example, equal pay has been given to women in the civil service. I understand that the inquiry has just been introduced into the armed Services. 
The educational allowance is another matter I wish to raise, lt appears that 28 members in Australia and 26 members out of Australia, out of an Army with a strength of 45,000, currently are receiving the education allowance. This is incredible and 1 think it is something that should be looked at in relation to all the other conditions of service to see what the problems are. It is not just a question of pay, when allowances are given, according to the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Board and the Taxation Office, they are added to the pay of the soldier and taxed accordingly. He gets an increase in his allowance, but unfortunately, when taxation is increased and the DFRB deduction is increased, he frequently gets no value. 
As I said before, I had a very brilliant speech to deliver on terms and conditions of service, but 9 minutes of my time has gone and there is no possibility of getting through it. This is the farce of the debate on the Defence Services estimates. But 1 would like to make it clear to the Service Ministers, to the Treasury and to the Department of Defence that the morale of the Services at this time is not high and that servicemen are concerned about their conditions. The Cabinet must take the responsibility for this situation. If, as I think it is, it is the Treasury putting up problems in respect of Service pay and conditions, the Government must accept the end responsibility. 
At the present moment it appears to me that the Department of Defence might just as well be a supplicant for social services as far as defence is concerned. If recommendations are put up and if some Treasury gentleman who has never been out of 
Canberra is to be the arbitrator in respect of what a soldier receives, for example, by way of turbulence allowance or in respect of other problems with which the soldier is faced, it is a very poor situation. We need recruiting. We need servicemen. I think we rest on the loyalty and the morale of these Services, and at the present moment these are at a low ebb. I suggest to the Government that it is time it stood up to the Treasury or others and said: 'Do not tell us why we cannot do it. Tell us how we can do it.: 
I desire to ask the Minister for the Army a question. I presume that hs has made a recommendation to the Defence (Conditions of Service) Committee regarding senior serving officers of the Citizen Military Forces. Can the Minister advise me how the rate of pay for such officers is compiled? Can he advise me whether there is concern in the Army about the delay in reaching a decision in this matter? 
I am disappointed that the Defence Statement, which has not been discussed, is to be wiped from the notice paper. I would like that to be noted. 
The Minister for Health will be aware that the governments of the United Kingdom and the United States of America recently have banned cigarette advertising on television channels. Cao the Minister inform me what factors prevent Australia from taking the same action? 
Has the attention of the Minister for Labour and National Service been drawn to an article in the 'Australian' yesterday in respect of the number of prosecutions pending for failure to register for national service? Is this article true? How many prosecutions have been authorised to date of young men failing to register under the National Service Act and how many are pending decision on the same offence? 
I atn quite sure that when we are able to see the speech of the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  in print and to read it in the cool calm of the morning we will have a clearer idea of what he was talking about. But I am sure from the few words of relevance heard this side of the chamber that it was a well written speech, but it did not have the usual thrust of his more spontaneous addresses. We look forward to reading the interpretation of it in the morning. 1 do not want to deal with the remarks of the honourable member for Sturt. I have another matter that I would like to raise before the House this evening. I am very glad that the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  is in the chamber. I want to mention the position of young invalid people in the prevailing circumstances of our community. 1 wish to quote in particular one case that 1 have in mind. It is the case of a young girl of approximately 18 years of age who is slightly mentally retarded and who has been employed for the last 2 years in a factory where she performed a fairly repetitious type of job. Due to the increase in the wage structure caused by the decision of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in the national wage case her employers felt that they had to reduce their staff, that they could not afford to continue to employ so many mentally retarded people. Although such action is rather hard on such employees, one can understand it to a certain extent. When the wage structure is forced up, the first people to go are those who perhaps have been in rather unusual circumstances employed. The tragedy which occurs in such situations should be understood by honourable members and by people outside the House. 
There must be many similar cases of unfortunate people who have been capable of maintaining employment but who suddenly, because of an increase in the wage rate, have been forced into unemployment. At the present time when such people become unemployed they receive the unemployment benefit. I ask whether it would not be possible for the Minister for Social Services or the Government to introduce some scheme by which an employer could be subsidised to maintain these people in employment. Would it not be possible for the Government to make a plea to the Australian Council of Trade Unions - to  Mr Hawke  who claims that he is acting in the best interests of the people, whether he is or is not - or individual unions to allow the Government to subsidise an employer above and beyond a certain rate of pay to help these unfortunate people? Such people are not sufficiently disabled to enter a sheltered workshop. They are capable of holding a job in industry, although perhaps at a reduced rate of efficiency as compared with a person who is 100 per cent fit. 
Another problem arises when employers engage such persons at 18 years of age. Once they reach the stage where they are entitled to receive the full adult wage many employers put them off. It should not be beyond the bounds of possibility for the Government, in conjunction with the trade unions, to work out some scheme whereby these people, instead of being forced onto invalid or unemployment pensions, should be encouraged and should be enabled to stay in industry. There is nothing worse for a person who is disabled than suddenly to be confronted with unemployment. The fact that such persons may receive unemployment or invalid benefits when they are not working is of little solace to them. They want the pride of being able to work and of being able to bring back to their homes the money they earn for the work that they do. 
I think this is a subject to which many of us may not have given deep consideration. I know that there are problems in the unions. I know that these things can be abused and that people can employ and underpay these people; but as long as these matters can be watched I feel that greater opportunities can be given to these people. In the case that I have in mind a job came up with an organisation associated with one of the large newspapers in Victoria. The parents of this girl applied for the job which was merely the repetitive folding of newspapers. It was not a difficult job. I think it was quite within the capabilities of this girl. It seems that the assistant foreman said that there was no problem as far as a semi-handicapped person was concerned as long as she was capable and he felt that she would have no difficulty in doing the job. It was then referred to the next highest executive on the management rung in the firm and the girl's parents were told that no handicapped person need apply. I thought this was an extraordinary reply coming from newspapers which frequently publish great articles on what is not being done for handicapped people and how handicapped people should be assisted not only by governments but by industry, by unions and by others to take their place in this nation at this time. 
I ask that the Minister look at this matter because I know that he realises, as we all realise, that a disabled person does not want charity but wants the opportunity to earn, to have a job, to be independent and to have some pride. I think the way we have acted in the past is wrong. Perhaps because of difficult circumstances people have had to rely on social services and on invalidity pensions. Perhaps we should allow them to do a job in industry and subsidise the employer for keeping these people and paying them the full award wage. It may be that this would be cheaper for the Commonwealth than paying the full invalidity or social service benefit and having them do absolutely nothing. It is a matter of these people being occupied and I feel that we should be capable of finding, in conjunction with the unions, some system that will not only implement what we are saying in respect to the rehabilitation of these people but also give them some hope for the future. 
I ask the Postmaster-General a question which relates to the question asked by the honourable member for Perth. Was the contract for 'Pink Pages' advertising formerly held by the company, O'Brien Advertising Pty Ltd? Has there been a change in this contract? Is the PostmasterGeneral's Department now handling this advertising? Will the PostmasterGeneral advise the House, when he has the information sought, of the reason for the increase in charges if there has been a change in the advertising contract? 
I ask the Minister for Labour and National Service whether, following the previous Government's statement that child minding centres would be set up or encouraged he has received any requests from industries for assistance in establishing child minding centres in association with those industries. Is the Minister aware of a letter from the Dowd organisation at Healesville, which operates one of the largest industries in this most important area, offering to donate land for the purpose of erecting a child minding centre to be made available to all in the Healesville area? When is it expected that a decision will be given on this most important matter? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Labour and National Service. I refer to the imprisonment of 5 women in Melbourne following demonstration activities in and around the Princes Gate Melbourne office of the Department of Labour and National Service and to a subsequent demonstration involving the honourable member for Lalor in the same office yesterday. Has the Minister seen the statement by the honourable member for Lalor that he and other demonstrators did everything, and more, that the 5 women did and that he was subject to cynical and corrupt discrimination in not being similarly dealt with? Would the Minister indicate to the House what are the facts and whether the statement by the honourable member for Lalor accurately reflects the situation? Has the honourable member for Lalor established, as he claims, the right of freedom of movement in the office, or is this the usual grandstanding of the honourable member for Lalor? 
This has been one of the most interesting debates that has taken place in this House during the session. It has been interesting to listen to the remarks of various members of the Opposition. It has also been interesting to notice those members of the Opposition - the more senior ones, in my opinion, perhaps the more conservative and realistic members of the Australian Labor Party - who have not spoken on the Bill. The main Opposition speakers have been the young gentlemen of the new left, or the new intake of the ALP, those who have made statements about marihuana and other things which they think should be approved and in respect of which restrictive legislation exists. We did not hear the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Allan Fraser)  and other senior members of the Labor Party speak against the Bill. I give credit to the honourable member for EdenMonaro, for whom I have great respect, for saying, when it was stated recently that trade unionists might refuse to make possible the serving of gaol sentences passed on people by the courts - that prison warders might go out on strike - that this would be anarchy. 
What we have heard is a great difference of opinion within the Labor Party between the older, what I consider the finer types of Labor representatives we have had in the past, and the new, more maverick type which is coming into the fore. This is indicated by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  as the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown)  pointed out. This morning the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  made his usual protestations about how he had dared the lion, how he had gone out with his cloak and rapier and taken on the world, and how to his disappointment nobody had taken any notice of him. He stated the iniquities of imprisoning  5  women in Melbourne who had committed an offence and who had been tried by the court, and when he came along and, as he claims, did exactly the same thing endeavouring to occupy, take over or bc unlawfully on government property he was ignored and was not given the coverage that he though! he deserved. Even though he had telephoned the Press and had all the newspapers in attendance th? Government and the Department of Labour and National Service, quite intelligently, refused to be drawn in. 
The comment 1 would like to read is that of the Leader of the Opposition because it seems to differ from the outlook of the honourable member for Lalor. The Leader of the Opposition said this: 
There can be no doubt that there have been some contemptible and cowardly invasions of Commonwealth premises in Sydney and Melbourne. Nobody would condone those. 
I add that obviously the honourable member for Lalor does condone them. The Leader of the Opposition went on: 
They should be condemned. 
Obviously certain members of the Labor Party think that they should not be condemned. He continued: 
The people who participated in those invasions, those threats, those demonstrations, those sit-ins should have been brought to trial. 
I agree with this, and I agree that if the honourable member for Lalor did commit the same offence he should have been prosecuted. But I give the honourable member for Lalor credit for being bright enough and clever enough to see that on a technical point under the law as it exists he could not be prosecuted. When I used the term 'grandstanding' this morning I meant it because this man appears to have made himself the king of the kids. He appears to be the wonder man of the hippie group, and for the period until those in that group grow up they look at him with adoring eyes. 
Before I go on in respect of this matter 1 would like to take up some of the remarks of the honourable member for 
Batman  (Mr Garrick)  because he read his speech with some care. He talked about the morality of Pontius Pilate. He referred to the occasion when the former Leader of the Opposition was shot at while at a political meeting. He accused the Government of taking no interest in this matter. I think his knowledge is not too good because, as I understand it, the man who fired the shot was arrested at the time and was, I think, found medically unfit and was given treatment. The honourable member for Batman then raised the matter concerning the honourable member for Lalor. 1 doubt whether the honourable member for Lalor will be grateful to him for raising this matter. I agree emphatically with what the honourable member for Batman said. It concerns me that this brutal attack took place on the honourable member for Lalor at his residence in the evening when he was having an innocent little party at which members of the Australian Labor Party were present and at which a small charge was made for the alcohol that was being imbibed. Some other person, I believe a member of the Labor Party - I could be wrong, but it was a person associated with the Labor Party - came in and battered and assaulted the honourable member for Lalor. 
I do not think this should be allowed, and it has concerned me that no member of the Labor Party over the last 18 months has raised this matter, inquired into it or appears to have made any protest that nothing has been done to bring this man to trial or at least to apprehend him when, I understand, he did not appear on the date fixed to hear the serious charges raised against him. 1 think it is incredible to find the honourable member for Batman today raising this question, but never a word has been said in the past. I would like to support what the honourable member for Batman has said, and I will support him to the full strength of my ability to see that this man is brought to justice. I will be interested, as perhaps some other people in this community may be, to know what the situation in fact was. 
The honourable member for Batman then spoke of undisciplined young hooligans roaming the streets. What does he expect them to do? We find that a large majority of these so-called undisciplined hooligans are roaming the streets led by certain members of Parliament and other so-called distinguished citizens of  thi3  country. We find them being encouraged to break the law time and time again. 
1 did not say 'at night'. I said that there are young hooligans who are roaming the streets frequently led by members of the Labor Party. That is my opinion of the Moratorium Campaign and sections in it. 
1 address a question to the Prime Minister. I know that he is extremely interested in the cherry industry as are many other honourable members on this side of the House. In view of the absence of the Minister for Primary Industry will the Prime Minister discuss the situation of cherry growers with the responsible departments with a view to implementing some further measures to assist these most worthy primary producers? 
I desire to ask the Prime Minister a question. If we accepted the presumed policy of the Australian Labor Party that we should repudiate Nationalist China in favour of mainland China because of its greater power, does the Prime Minister believe that if we undertook this action it might well be that we would cause in the minds of the smaller nations of South East Asia with whom we have existing treaties doubt as to whether' under the same circumstances we might well repudiate them in the future? 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
The Minister for Defence will remember that last year I asked bis predecessor for a revision of the pay scale for senior Citizen Military Forces officers. I was given an assurance in October of last year that Ibis decision had been made. Can he tell me whether anything has taken place yet and, If not, when it will? 
If one listened to the speech of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  I think one might have gained some idea of what this nation might have been if its foreign and defence policies had been common to both sides of the Parliament. Listening to the honourable gentleman when he spoke of the power of the Communist Party and of the North Vietnamese, of the infiltration of the North Vietnamese, of the fact that they have moved into Cambodia and Laos, of the strength of the Vietcong, of the withdrawal of the battalions in the Australian task force and of the fact that the absence of Australian forces would pose  a  threat to South Vietnam, one came to the conclusion that he could not have made a better speech if he had been  Deputy  Leader of the Liberal Party. 1 think it must have confused many of those people who have listened to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  over the ) ears 
We remember when the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition went to South Vietnam in 1967. We remember the trouble that he got into with a certain  Mr Chamberlain  when he came back and said that the Labor Party should review its defence policies and when, for the first time, he admitted that there was aggression from the North whereas his colleagues had said that at no time was there any aggression from the North. We remembered this tonight when the Leader of the Opposition rose wearing his rimless glasses and looking like some Q.C. in a television movie and spoke about our part in this war being born of a lie and deceit. We remembered what was said in 1966 by the then Leader of the Opposition, the right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell).  He said that the Labor Party, if elected, would withdraw all Australian troops from Vietnam instantly. It was his  deputy  - the present Leader - who stabbed him in the back and said that it would not. I would have wished that the right honourable member for Melbourne would have spoken in this debate, perhaps following the Leader of the Opposition. 
I think that much of what the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition said tonight about the situation in Vietnam was true. However Australia has achieved much, in conjunction with the South Vietnamese and with the United States of America. It is not possible to garrison any country forever. Australian forces went to South Vietnam because it was threatened in 1965 and 1966. Australians went there because South East Asia throughout appeared to be under pressure and under threat. Australia realised, as did the United States of America, that if South Vietnam fell other sections of South East Asia possibly would fall. This was the Australian Government's opinion, right or wrong. At that time the luckier nations which had a better way of life in this part of the world accepted some responsibility. Members opposite have stated glibly that other member nations of the South East Asia Treaty Organisation did not answer the call. Does that make our decision to answer the call wrong? We live in this part of the world and we will remain here. What France did is of little concern to me and what others did is of little concern. In my opinion the Australian people endorsed the Australian Government's decision to take part in the conflict in South Vietnam and to accept responsibility. All the glib argument concerning a paper, whether it was signed, when it was received and what colour it was is the most utter tripe that I have ever heard. I am amazed that the honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison),  with his termiting throughout the diplomatic corps, was not aware that there had been a written paper. I suggest that his Leader may be taking him to task at this moment. 
In my mind there is no doubt that all the Australian servicemen who served in and assisted a small country in its time of need have the gratitude of all Australians. There were no greater ambassadors than our servicemen, both regular soldiers and national servicemen, whom we sent abroad. Some sections of the Australian community - high on the list I would put the Australian Labor Party - gave them the barest support in the trials and tribulations which they faced. The former Leader of the Opposition said that the Labor Party would support our servicemen but in my opinion the Labor Party supported them in name only. 
The present situation is that South Vietnam has had a chance to equip and build its army. It may not be adequate. Everything that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition said may be true. The North Vietnamese and the Communists may be waiting until the American and Australian forces withdraw. It may be that an attack will then be mounted. Will this make the Labor Party happy? Is this what the Labor Party wants, because the people of Australia are entitled to know? I say to the Labor Party and to the people of Australia that 1 would not be in too much of a hurry to buy bunting. I would not hang streamers out too soon because the time may come - it may not be this year and it may not be in 10 years time - when we will regard South Vietnam as not being the proudest mark on the Australian escutcheon. Other parts of South East Asia mav decide, in their time of need and if confronted with an Australian government which is not prepared to do anything, to seek succour from those who threaten them. Let us not get too elated. 
I do not want to discuss foreign affairs but let us consider the situation into which the Leader of the Opposition has got himself. I am not sure that his views are by any means endorsed by the Australian people. He is claiming that the  President  of the United States will agree, as he agreed, with every point made by the Chinese Premier. I think the American  President  is made of much sterner stuff. Indeed the Leader of the Opposition may have placed the American  President  in rather an invidious position. However, let me return to the situation we are now discussing. The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  rightly has announced that the position in South Vietnam is better and that South Vietnam has a more effective army. We hope South Vietnam will be able to stand on its own feet. There were many contradictions in what the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition said tonight. He said that in the Phuoc Tuy province the South Vietnamese were prepared and were capable of holding the area. Later he said that the South Vietnamese were not capable of holding it. Throughout his speech there were contradictions. We hope that the South Vietnamese are capable of holding that province. Australia is prepared to lend South Vietnam military advisers for a reasonable time to see that the South Vietnamese training programme is accelerated. Australia is prepared to continue providing civilian aid to assist the South Vietnamese with their other problems - and they will have great problems confronting them. However, our forces are now coming out and the American forces are coming out. If members opposite like, it may be said that we have made the decision in unison. There is nothing wrong with that. The Australian Government has decided that the South Vietnamese have been enabled to equip themselves and to stand on their own feet. Cambodia may go and Laos may go but Australia has at least played a part in assisting other countries of South East Asia to live in peace. We have shown those who may try to threaten and attack that there are people who are prepared to stand and fight, even though the alternative government of Australia is not among them. 
We are now confronted with the great need to do what the Prime Minister has said - to equip the Australian defence forces on a balanced basis for what may confront Australia in the future. I agree wilh what has been said about reducing the period of national service training to 18 months because when an army is brought home it is not always easy to keep the men fully occupied for 2 years. They can be fully occupied when active service is involved. They can be trained and can expect to have 9 to 12 months in the field. I agree with what is proposed. If the Labor Party intends to cut out national service, to reduce the Army and to reduce our defence programme, this should be communicated to the Australian people. When members opposite suggest, as did the Leader of the Opposition, that the national servicemen will be given war service homes and given this and that - they are to be given gold swords and gold spurs - all I can say is that this has never been done in the past by any Labor government. The first thing that has suffered has always been our defence forces. 
Perhaps in the time remaining to me I can say what I think should be done. I think that we have to keep the regular division of the Army at reasonable strength - perhaps the battalions not at full strength, as the Prime Minister has said. I think that we have to set up the framework within this country for training non-commissioned officers. We have to maintain the level of officers and non-commissioned officers so that in the event of any emergency the Army can bc expanded early and it could be recruited to. This is a high priority.- Also, I think that we have to increase our naval forces. I do not think we have sufficient naval forces to protect the coast line and the areas which are vital to this country, such as the islands in the Pacific, Papua New Guinea and the other areas essential to Australia. I think without any doubt that we have to realise that a threat to Australia might not occur within 10 years, but if we look at what is happening around us there are many matters which we should consider in respect of defence. 
First, as 1 said and as the Prime Minister has said, the Nixon doctrine as stated in Guam puts a responsibility on us, as it puts it on other small nations, to help ourselves. The developing military and nuclear power of China is another threat to us as it is to every other nation in this theatre of the world. Then there is the problem of insurgency and turbulence throughout South East Asia. Then there is the future development of Papua New Guinea and what part we may be expected to play in its defence. Also there is the intrusion of the Russian naval units into the Indian Ocean. Nobody is suggesting that we can match them. Nobody is suggesting that we can meet them. But we can play a part, together with those allies in this area who are prepared to stand with us, and we must do it. Then there is Australia's commitment to Malaysia and Singapore. 
All these matters are now vital to our defence. They are matters on which we have to organise now, not 10 years later. These are the matters that must concern Japan as a possible stabilising influence throughout Asia but later, perhaps, as a dominant power in the world and not always necessarily on our side. We have to consider the future strategic balance in the Pacific Ocean. These are matters vital to our defence and I say to the Minister for Defence  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  who is sitting at the table and to the Prune Minister: Do not think that war and threats are over and that we can buy our streamers and dance around the maypole. It is my opinion, anyway, that the threats to Australia in the overall situation are not further away; they have moved one step closer to us. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth - Whereas - 
the Commonwealth Parliament has acted, to remove some inadequacies in the Australian Education system. 
a major inadequacy at present in Australian education is the lack of equal education opportunity for all. 
200,000 students from Universities, Colleges of Advanced Education and other Tertiary Institutions, and their parents suffer severe penalty from inadequacies in the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936-1968. 
Australia cannot afford to hinder the education of these 200,000 Australians. 
Your petitioners request that your honourable House make legal provision for - 
The allowance of personal education expenses as a deduction from income for tax purposes. 
Removal of the present age limit in respect of the deduction for education expenses and the maintenance allowance for students. 
Increase in the amount of deduction allowable for tertiary education expenses. 
Exemption of non-bonded scholarships, for part-time students from income tax. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the sales tax on all forms of contraceptive devices is 27 per cent. (Sales Tax Exemptions and Classifications Act 1935-1967). Also that there is customs duty of up to 47 per cent on some contraceptive devices. 
And that this is an unfair imposition on the human rights of all people who wish to prevent unwanted pregnancies. And furthermore that this imposition discriminates particularly against people on low incomes. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the sales tax on all forms of contraceptive devices be removed, so as to bring these items into line with other necessities such as food, upon which there is no sales tax. Also that customs duties be removed, and that all contraceptive devices be placed on the national health scheme pharmaceutical benefits list. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament Assembled. The humble petition of certain electors of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the United Nations General Assembly Resolution 2603 XXIV A (December 1969) declares that the Geneva Protocol of 1925, which Australia has ratified, prohibits the use in international armed conflict of any chemical agents of warfare - chemical substances whether gaseous, liquid or solid - employed for their direct toxic effects on man, animals or plants; 
That the World Health Organisation Report (January 1970) confirms the above definition of chemical agents of warfare; 
That the Australian Government does not accept this definition, but holds that the Geneva Protocol does not prevent the use in war of certain toxic chemical substances in the form of herbicides, defoliants and 'riotcontrol' agents. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray - 
That the Parliament take note of the consensus of international political, scientific and humanitarian opinion; and 
That honourable members urge upon the Government the desirability of revising its interpretation of the Geneva Protocol, and declaring that it regards all chemical substances employed for their toxic effects on man, animals or plants as being included in the prohibitions laid down by that Protocol. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I agree wholeheartedly with what the honourable member for Bradfield said. 
It is not a matter of missing out. Let it be understood that I let it be known that I did not want to be one of them. Honourable members opposite have raised a question of parliamentary principle but when someone from this side rises to support them all they are prepared to do is mock him. What 1 am trying to do is make known that I have the utmost respect for those who are to be appointed but I think that the Parliament, as a matter of principle, must be given the right to make an assessment of the proposal with a full knowledge of what is proposed and what powers are to be given to these people. I do not think it would be right for this proposal to become a fait accompli. I agree with the principle which I thought the Opposition was propounding but for honourable members opposite to mock everybody from this side who gets up to speak, claiming that we are suffering from sour grapes, does nothing for the standing of Parliament in the community. I say to those who arc so quick to mock someone else that if they ever have the gumption or the courage to stand and speak in this debate I will not mock them. I ask the Leader of the House for the assurance sought by the Opposition that nothing will be done until this matter is put in a proper form and agreed on by this Parliament. I think this is the essential issue and that it is not one of personalities or whether I or someone else should have been appointed. It is a question of the power of the Parliament and how this Parliament is to be treated. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I address a question to the Minister for Defence, although perhaps I should be addressing it to the Minister who is in charge of the archives. I understand that 26 years ago a committee was set up to investigate a defence services disciplinary code. Can the Minister inform me what is the position of this investigation and when the report is likely to be available? Secondly, can the Minister inform me on the situation concerning the memoirs of the former Secretary for Defence,  Sir Frederick  Shedden? 
I ask  a  question of the Minister for Supply consequent on the reply given by the  Deputy  Prime Minister about employment in small towns. Tenders have just been called for laundry services at the Army School of Health, Healesville, Victoria, for work formerly done by local industry. The contract has now been given to a large chain laundry in the State capita) city. The cost of unemployment benefits to those who are now likely to be unemployed will far exceed the difference in tender prices. Can the Minister assure me that Commonwealth contracts, where held by industry in local towns, will not in future be disturbed without full consideration of relevant factors, including local employment? Will he review the contract? 
Will the Treasurer advise me whether expenditure in relation to the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund is deducted from the Defence vote? Will he advise me from which appropriation superannuation expenditure is deducted? Is it the appropriation for each department or is it from the appropriation for the Treasury? Why should expenditure for the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund be deducted from the Defence vote? 
I agree with many of the comments made by the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage).  1 support the report of the Standing Orders Committee. After listening to the honourable member I feel that as he was speaking for the oh so young in the Parliament I am speaking for the oh so aged. I think we gave a reasonable trial to the sitting arrangement which were supported by many of those newer members in the House who, quite rightly and reasonable, considered that there was room for improvement. In my opinion, the debate which led to the trial period of the new sitting arrangements was most confused. But I feel now that we have given them a reasonable trial. 1 do not agree with the remarks of my colleague the honourable member for Griffiths  (Mr Donald Cameron)  about honourable members from New South Wales and Victoria. 1 am sure all honourable members feel great sympathy for those who live in Western Australia, Queensland and other outlying areas who, because of transport problems, have great difficulty in returning home. I think most honourable members were prepared to go along with the new system if honourable members who represented outlying electorates had been prepared to stay in Canberra over the weekends. Much of the propaganda that was advanced for the introduction of the new sitting hours was that during the weekends there would be 
Committee meetings, we would be able to gambol with the diplomats, the Prime Minister would ask us all to afternoon tea, and we would play tennis on Sundays. None of these things has happened. I agree with those honourable members on the other side of the House who have said that once the House rose they dare not trip on the way to the aircraft because they would be killed in the rush, and that included in the rush were honourable members from Western Australia, Queensland and other outlying areas. I agree with the honourable member for Chifley that under the present system it is terribly difficult for honourable members to return to their electorates and do the things required of a member of Parliament. There is no doubt about it. Honourable members leave Canberra on Friday night. The civil service does not work on Saturday morning. Your secretary is not in the office on Saturday. Honourable members are expected to catch an aircraft back to Canberra on Monday morning. Half the time honourable members take correspondence away and bring it back to Canberra, hoping to get in the queue for the 2 typists who are supplied to back bench members on both sides of the House. 
I think there is another factor which has to be taken into account. Listening to the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham),  I felt that he became rather confused, although he was trying. I do not think that he actually gave consideration to the members of the executive. 1 do not think that I can be considered to be one of the greatest supporters of the executive or one of the greatest stampers of the executive's programme. But I admit that members of the executive have a considerable task to carry out. Not only is it their responsibility to see that this Parliament is running - that the debates take place and that members play their part in them - but also that the country's affairs are administered properly. I think frequently it is considered that what happens in this chamber is part of running the country. 1 think it should be clearly understood that we are debating legislation and the effects of legislation but it is the members of Cabinet who are always responsible for the day to day running of the country. They have a considerable amount of work to do which we as backbenchers have not. lt seemed to me that when the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  suggested that they could start at 7 o'clock in the morning he was saying: 'I want a 9 to 5 job and if they want to work any harder they can start at 7 o'clock or work in the evening until midnight or whatever it may be'. I think that is quite ridiculous. We must realise that members of the executive have additional responsibilities to those that we have as backbenchers. 
Perhaps I can revert to what my distinguished friend, the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage),  said about which is more important, electorate work or parliamentary work. I could be wronging him. I feel that the parliamentary work would have priority if the members of Parliament did the work that is required of them. I hope I am not misquoting the honourable member but I thought he said that he felt that those honourable members who said that being in Parliament was the most important function were wrong and that the responsibilities in the electorate were more important. If that is not what the honourable member meant I apologise and take it back. But if the honourable member could have been saying that let me say that, if honourable members took responsibility, were prepared to play a greater part in the debates and perhaps to vote according to their conscience and for matters of principle and to see this Parliament work, this without any doubt would be the most important part of a parliamentarians life and work. But unfortunately I think too many parliamentarians - this is where I thought I was agreeing with the honourable member for Chifley - want to rush home to get into the baby show, to kiss the queen of the week or whatever it may be in their electorate. I do not consider that is the most important function of a member of Parliament. I support the Standing Orders Committee and I am glad to find that my distinguished young friend supports it also. I am opposed to the amendment moved by the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  because I feel that 11 o'clock is a reasonable hour. 
I think we will see it without an amendment. I am sorry it disturbed you but if you rise again I will speak for another 10 minutes. I think most of us have given the new system a try and I think that those of us on both sides of the House who have had a period under the old timetable and a period under the new one consider that the old timetable was the most workable and fair to the Parliament, to the electorate and to the health and happiness of all people concerned. If the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  intends to make a personal explanation he will just goad me into speaking further. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! There is no substance in the point of order. I ask the honourable member to resume his seat. 
1 am sorry that the honourable member for Sturt rose to his feet because I was about to resume my seat. I can see that the honourable member is just biding his time until he can put over a bit of high class material for the electorate. 
I assure you,  Sir that  I was not being frivolous. I can imagine the joy in the electorate of Sturt every time the electors hear their member speak. But I can only say in deference to the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  that 1 hope he gets the call next because he has been hopping up for much longer than any other honourable member. 
I must say, as has every other honourable member in this House, that I have great sympathy for the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard).  The only thing that occurs to me is that I wonder how he conducts a house to house canvas in his electorate. I suppose that it is not unreasonable to have the sittings of the Parliament designed to meet the convenience of the honourable member for Kalgoorlie. Often I think that he may have many advantages. It must be just as inconvenient for his constituents to find him as it is for him to find his constituents. However, I want to take up only  a  few moments. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Cope)Order! The honourable gentleman has already spoken to the motion. If he speaks to the amendment he will be in order, but if he speaks to the motion he will be out of order. 
Then I shall move to speak to the amendment. The honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  told us why he will not vote for the amendment, and I can see his view. He referred to the business before the House and how experience has shown that the former pattern of times and sittings of the Parliament was perhaps more productive than the present system. He also said that he will support the recommendation of the Standing Orders Committee if we sit for more weeks.  I  do not think that this question has been sufficiently emphasised by honourable members on both sides of the chamber. I will support the Committee's recommendation and vote against the amendment on the understanding that we will sit for more weeks. I think that this is the understanding of most members of the Parliament. 
I am not too sure how I will link what  I  am about to say to the amendment, but the honourable member for Wilmot said that this was the most important Parliament in the world and naturally that is the reason why we should consider amendments. He could have fooled me, and this is why I rose to speak. This is Australia's national Parliament. The honourable member referred to the great issues which we have to discuss and which perhaps we would be able to discuss more effectively or less effectively, according to which amendment was accepted. But at the same time, recently I noticed the salary that is paid to the Press Secretary to the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and compared it with the salary that is paid to members of this Parliament. As I say, the honourable member could have fooled me as to our importance. Having said that, I think we have heard sufficient. Therefore I move: 
That the question be now put. 
I ask the Minister for the Army a question. Will the Minister consider making a statement in the near future on the present strength, recruitment and organisation of the Citizen Military Forces so that the House may debate this subject? 
I ask the Prime Minister whether the annual salary of his Press Secretary is $3,000 more than that received by a member of the Federal Parliament. Will the Prime Minister explain to the House the relative importance and responsibilities of his Press Secretary and a member of the Parliament so that both the public and honourable members may get this matter into perspective and understand the true importance of the relative roles? 
I would hate to disappoint the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  by not replying to his speech, part of which I heard as I came into the House. It often confounds me, and I think it should also confound the Australian people, to hear the speeches that he makes. The honourable member has not been here for very long but similar speeches have been made by members of this Parliament who have since lost their seats at the various elections. The installations in Australia have been the subject of agreements between the Australian Government and the Government of the United States of America. All such agreements have been placed before the people of Australia and have been voted upon at elections time and time again. When one looks at the debates on the North West Cape installation, which was an election issue, and when one looks at the speeches of distinguished members of the Opposition prior to elections in years gone by, one finds that these matters were great issues. But on those issues the Australian Labor Party was repudiated by the people of Australia. 
When one looks at the debates on defence in this House one cannot find  a  very convincing defence policy put forward by the Australia Labor Party. I think it would be reasonable to say that the Labor Party has lost most Federal elections on its foreign policy and its defence policy. The honourable member for Sturt is rather ingenuous if he suggests that the people of Australia do not have a fairly reasonable idea of what is involved in various stations that have been set up in Australia. If they are what the honourable member for Sturt says they are, surely to goodness he must admit and the people of Australia must also admit, that if we have a treaty with a friendly power whom we hope will come to our aid in the event of hostilities we cannot expect to have it all the one way. After all, our whole defence concept at present rests primarily upon the ANZUS pact. 
My distinguished friend from Robertson asks me: 'Do you think they will come?' I can only say that I hope they will. It seems to me to be worthwhile for the people of Australia to play their part. It is not just a matter of whether we think they will come. I have listened over the years to the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr J. F. Cairns)  talking about how he would defend this country. He would have a fleet of ships in the Sunda Strait sailing around the north of Australia but his outlook is that it would not be an Australian fleet but an American fleet. The honourable member like other members of the Opposition, spends his time placing American forces throughout the world but he never says anything about Australia's responsibility. All that I can say to the honourable member for Sturt is that I think it is reasonable to say to the people of Australia that we are in a rather lonely situation in this part of the world and that we depend on the treaty which we have with the United States under ANZUS. A treaty does not involve just a one-way responsibility with some people it is always a matter of 'ask somebody else to do it. Everybody else has a responsibility te protect us.' 
Some of the things which were said by members of the Labor Party during defence debates and at other times prior to the last war about Papua New Guinea and threats of war are really quite incredible. In every defence debate the Labor Party voted against any increase in expenditure. I admit that when the war came along the Labor Party did for various reasons - they were not all defence - go into office. But what was the first thing it did when it got into office - and I do not blame the Labor Party for doing so? It sought the United States of America to come to our protection. If it were left to half the ignoramuses who represent the Labor Party outside of the Parliament - of course, there could not be any of them inside it - we would do sweet Fanny Adams about defending ourselves. As far as they are concerned if any threat arose they would get down on their knees and plead for somebody to come to their assistance. I would not say that about the honourable member for Sturt because I know that he played a very valiant and chivalrous part in the last war. 
If we are to have mutual defence treaties and alliances with others and expect them to come to our aid surely to goodness we must accept some responsibility for defending ourselves. The honourable member for Sturt raised the possibility of a confrontation between an Iron Curtain bloc and a western bloc. What is he suggesting we should do in the event of such a confrontation? Is he suggesting that we should sit here stark naked and do nothing? Is he suggesting that we should be all issued with the old .303 rifles and go out and, as I have heard the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  put it before, man the Australian coastline with about a 100-mile distance between each troop? Surely to goodness if we are going to have alliances with other countries and expect those countries to have obligations to us it will be necessary for us as a nation to accept some responsibility and to play some part in the organisation of our own defence. In my opinion the establishments to which the honourable member for Sturt referred have not only a defence concept but also a very important peace concept. There are very few things in respect of direction finding equipment or beam systems for shipping that do not also have a defence concept. 
All I can say to the Opposition is that if it were to go out and propound this line to the Australian people' it would only get the same result as it got in respect of the Malaysian defence agreement, the North West Cape issue and the Cuban situation. On ever)' occasion the Australian people have repudiated the Labor Party. Indeed. I think the Australian people will continue to repudiate the Labor Party as long as its members make speeches like the one the honourable member for Sturt has just made, which was nothing more than a sell out of our alliance. In effect, he said that we should just sit here stark naked and undefended. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. I think the honourable member for Sydney misunderstood me. I did not say that the Australian Labor Party supported the Cuban situation. I said 'over the Cuban situation'. 
If the honourable member would care to look at the Hansard report of the speech I have just made tomorrow, I think he will agree with what I have said. If he does not agree, I will apologise. 
 I ask the Minister for the Army a question. He will recall that recently I asked him whether a statement in regard to the Citizen Military Forces could be made by him and debated in this House. Has he had sufficient time to have consultations with the Minister for Defence and others who may be involved in this matter so that we can have a jolly good debate on the Citizen Military Forces? The Minister knows what I mean by 'jolly'. 
To a certain extent I agree with what the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  has said in respect of the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster).  I can accept his description of the honourable member for Sturt as innocent, lacking experience and only wanting to know certain things. I think the honourable member for Sturt is a simple minded lad. 
Simple in the nicest manner,  Mr Speaker. 
I withdraw it but what I was implying was simple in plain, ordinary, everyday, good terms. If I have to withdraw that I will say that he is not. I do not say the same thing of the honourable member for Reid. Over the years in this House we have listened to the honourable member for Reid speak on just about every defence installation within Australia and every defence commitment beyond Australia, and the views that he has propounded are, I think, clearly known to the Australian people We know also the repu tation of the honourable member for Reid in respect of the Moratorium marches and the various protests. They seem to have been all in the one direction. But I like this low posture of the honourable member for Reid now. The honourable member is saying: 'We simply want to know what the facts are'. In fact what he is saying is: 'We simply want to know what is beyond the walls. We simply want to know the secret information'. 
Not only do the honourable member for Reid and the honourable member for Wills want to know but also Australia's enemies and the enemies of the United States of America want to know. 
lt may be just coincidence that many of these countries overseas with whom, in certain circumstances, we may be in conflict are spending thousands and thousands of pounds in trying to find out this very information. How considerate and how wonderful if, just on the bland assurance of a member, of Parliament on the other side of the House that he must be given this information because it is his right, the information is made available. 1 know that the majority of the members of the Opposition do not want to know. They realise that they are not entitled to know. If the  honourable member for Reid was prepared to say: 'Although we do not give away our defence secrets and although the United States does not give away its defence secrets, my friends in the Soviet have told me everything, every location of their Polaris missiles, every site of their weapon bases and everything about their satellites that are flying over the earth at this time', that would be a different matter. Do not let anyone be naive enough to think that satellites do not have a defence capability and a defence effectiveness. 
Now that we have his Leader's joy with China - the honourable member himself spoke about the hysteria of the Western world in watching the Chinese - should we no longer watch the Chinese? Is that what he says? Are we to hand the information to the Chinese on a plate? Is that what he is asking us to do? As I said last week - I am s:;re the honourable member for Sturt accepted it - if we want friends and if we have defence agreements with friends, we surely must accept some responsibility and a quid pro quo because we, as a small nation, are not yet able to stand by ourselves without friends. If the quid pro quo is that we have on our land weapon research establishments, satellite observation facilities and so on, that is something that we have to accept and something which I am sure the people of Australia are prepared to accept. 
I challenge the honourable member for Reid and the honourable member for Wills to argue that aspect and to have it included in Labor policy. Reference wars made to resolutions passed at the Labor Parry's Federal Conference. I remind honourable members that it was the Labor Party's Federal Conference which, during or just after the last war, placed embargoes on its own members visiting the Woomera Rocket Range because Labor was not prepared to allow them to create unrest and to do the other things they may wish to do at this particular time. It is too easy. I find it incredible that the honourable member for Reid, the honourable member for Wills and other honourable members opposite should say: 'Tell us everything about every defence establishment and every secret that we have with our allies'. For how long would we have allies if we did that? 
The honourable member for Reid talked about a learned gentleman in the United States who has written a book. One could quote statements made in the Australian Press, half of them woolly minded and half of them so wide of the mark that it does not matter, but the honourable member proclaims that anyone who agrees with his viewpoint must necessarily be right and must be a man of distinction. I do not know whether the honourable gentleman saw the 'Four Corners' programme at the weekend. I did not appreciate particularly the fact that the subject should have been put on the 'Four Corners' programme because I did not think it was a particularly good theme, but it must have been most disappointing to the honourable member for Reid and the honourable member for Wills to hear scientists in the 
United Kingdom, the United States and in other countries endorse the fact that there is a necessity for tracking stations to track the satellites of the Soviet and of other countries which are operating in our air space. They played down the fact that Australia would be a prime target, that we would go into oblivion and that we must tell the people. In my opinion, half of the art of some members of the Opposition is to endeavour to terrify the people and to take away from the people the urge to resist. They have asked that all information be made available to them. If that were done,  1  have no doubt that that information would be passed on to their friends. 
Before we all pass on  1  should like to hear the honourable member for Reid ask one day that the Soviet Union make available all information about its defences. I do not think he would deny that he goes to the Soviet Embassy. I am quite sure that the honourable member is persona grata there. He was rather upset that he did not go to China on the great mission. I say: Let him go; let him ask the Chinese exactly what their defence secrets are and what their provision for the defence of their homeland is; and let him bring that information back to the Australian people. Then we will give him greater credit for genuine concern for what is happening in this country at this time. Members of the Opposition are saying: 'We are playing this in a low posture. Do not let us have any hysteria. Just give us all the secrets. Give us the plan and we will be able to tell you whether it is right or wrong.' I would not give to some members of the Opposition a plan of the public toilet at Frankston because I do not think they would be able to restrain themselves from handing it over to somebody whom they felt they could impress. 

 Mr UREN (Reid)- 1 wish to make a personal explanation. 
I want to deal specifically with one allegation. It concerns what the honourable member said in 2 phrases. In one phrase he said that my criticism was directed only one way, meaning that I never criticise the Soviet Union. He also said: 'Let me one day see him oppose the Soviet policy*. Both statements are false. If the honourable member wants an examination of that, it is in the records of Hansard. When the former Minister for External Affairs and former honourable member for Forrest,  Mr Gordon  Freeth - the present Ambassador to Japan - introduced his infamous new Government line on the proposed Soviet security treaty in the Indian Ocean, etc., in 1969, I was the first in this Parliament to place on record strong criticism of our linking ourselves in any way in  a  security treaty with the Soviet Union, just as I criticised our involvement with the United States of America in Vietnam and our involvement with the United Kingdom in the Malaysian-Indonesian crisis. 
I rise to a point of order. 
No, I do not think he has, with all respect. 

 Mr JESS (La Trobe) - I wish to make  a  personal explanation. 
 1 do, indeed. I do not consider that I said at any time that the honourable member for Reid supported the Soviet Union. I said that 1 would be impressed if- 
I did say that if the honourable member was prepared to obtain from the Soviet Union and the People's Republic of China details of their instruments and weapons installations he would be more impressive. 
 Mr Speaker,  1 wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. Last night during the adjournment debate the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  concluded his address by saying - and I overlooked this at the time: 
. 1 believe the establishment of foreign bases in this country and the alienation of our territory to another country is a piece of national treachery. And the honourable member for La Trobe is one of the guilty parties. 
I do not agree that I am treacherous to my country. I believe that as yet we are not able to stand on our own 2 feet and that if we have an alliance we must stand by it. 
I support the Superannuation (Pension Increases) Bill 1971. I agree with most of the points made by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean).  It is a pleasure to have honourable members on both sides of this House in almost complete agreement with a piece of legislation. In introducing this Bill the Minister for the Army and Minister assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Peacock)  said: 
As I have already said when introducing the Superannuation (Pension Increases) Bill, the Government will be examining simpler methods of adjustment which would produce more equitable results than the notional salary method of adjustment adopted in this Bill, with a view to future application on a regular basis. 
I agree with the point made by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports and the honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson).  Perhaps it would have been helpful if the Minister had put forward a few ideas as to the Government's line of thinking on this matter so that we could have a general debate on a much wider basis. I am sure that everyone will welcome this Bill. We are all aware of the situation of those people in receipt of superannuation under the Commonwealth scheme, Defence Forces Retirements Benefit scheme or private schemes. These people are the ones who are affected in times of inflation. These people have made provisions in the early part of their career for retirement at a certain age and they expect that at that age they will be able to maintain a reasonable standard of living but when inflationary trends enter the economy they find that their livelihood is eroded year after year and there is absolutely nothing they can do to retrieve the situation. I think it is right and just that the Commonwealth Government has made provision in this Bill, the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits (Pension Increases) Bill and the Parliamentary Retiring Allowances (Increases) Bill for people who are in this situation. 
Take the position of a warrant officer or a captain who retired in 1966 and who thought that he would get a certain amount of money which would allow him to live with his wife in reasonable comfort. His situation has been eroded. There is no scheme to which he can contribute in order to obtain more equity. He has to face the future with a certain amount of money. I think it is right for the Commonwealth Government to make provision for a review, as has been done in this legislation. I believe that such a review should be undertaken automatically. I personally feel that this is something which the Treasurer should introduce and I am sure that this feeling will be supported by honourable members on both sides of the House. 
The honourable member for Melbourne Ports referred to the establishment of a national superannuation scheme. I think it is reasonable to say that most thinking people today believe that there is need for a debate on this matter. I think I used the wrong word when I said 'debate': There should be an investigation into this matter. There is necessity for the Government to introduce a White Paper in regard to this matter as was suggested by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports. Perhaps the honourable member is right when he says that the Government may have more information and knowledge on the factors involved in this matter. However, this information should be placed before the House and perhaps at some stage a committee would be prepared to look at it and to receive submissions relating to a national superannuation scheme. The establishment of such a committee would be to the advantage of everyone in that they would be able to understand all the factors involved in such a scheme. I hope that the Government at some future date will adopt the suggestion. I hasten to add that in my opinion it is not the correct way to do things in the way that this was done by the Opposition at a moments notice in the House the other day. Without notice this matter was raised and it was expected that everybody would jump up and vote in favour of it. As one of these honourable members who feel quite realistically that there is a need for and that there are problems in respect to a national superannuation scheme I hope that the Government will take the initiative in this, matter before very long. 
I think that the honourable member for Melbourne Ports, I and other honourable members who serve on the Joint Select Committee on Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Legislation are aware of the great complexities involved in any superannuation scheme. To understand the situation one has only to hear the problems in other countries which have endeavoured to tackle this problem and which have established national superannuation schemes. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports wanted to know what would happen with an automatic adjustment in superannuation where everybody is under a national superannuation scheme and so many people would not be productive because all the time the number of pensioners would be increasing. How far can any economy carry these people when all the time a natural increase to offset inflationary trends comes about. 
I think that we all agree that the widows and children who suffer under the Commonwealth scheme, the defence forces scheme and the parliamentary scheme, as well as those under private schemes, should receive the benefits which are now being offered to them. Any member of this Parliament may die today, tomorrow or the next day. He thinks that his wife will be adequately provided for even though she has no other income. I think it is only right that additional benefits should be made from these funds because after all costs will continue to rise. We should bear in mind that these funds are not overdrawn at the present time. Some provision should be made for these people. 
I would like to refer to one other matter which may not be relevant to this Bill. Perhaps I could introduce it in speaking to a Defence Bill or a Bill relating to the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund. However, it is referred to in the explanatory memorandum circulated by the Minister assisting the Treasurer and it does relate to these 3 Bills now under discussion. I refer to the cost for the full year of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits increase which will be $3,400,000. A matter which concerns me and which I do not quite understand is that it appears that this amount of money is to come out of the defence vote. I can see no reason whatsoever why costs associated with the defence forces fund should come out of the vote for the defence expenditure of this country. As I understand it the appropriation for defence is to pay the salaries of the members of the fighting forces and to purchase the equipment to be used by those forces in the defence of this country. If one looks at the Estimates one will find that for 1971- 72 the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund is expected to cost in the vicinity of $20,550,000. I cannot see that this is a true and rightful cost against the defence services of this country. If one looks at the cost of the superannuation component which is paid by the Commonwealth - this does not include the PostmasterGeneral's Department and other authorities - it will be found that $5 1.7m is paid from the Treasury vote. Can the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  or his Department tell me why it is that the cost of superannuation for members of the Departments of Trade and Industry, Civil Aviation and other departments should not come out of the direct vote of those departments? Why should this practice apply only to the Department of Defence? In my opinion this appears to be some sleight of hand. We think that we are getting a full bottle for defence and defence equipment but find that from defence expenditure $20m is to be paid in pensions to gentlemen who have served the Commonwealth in the defence services. I see no reason for any difference in the way superannuation is charged to a department, and it should not matter whether the superannuitant was a member of the defence services or a civil servant. This is the only area where there is any dissimilarity whatever. I do not think it is correct to make this charge against the defence vote. If it is to be done with respect to one department, it should be done with all departments. 
I support the 3 Bills and I hope that before long the Government will make a statement or introduce a White Paper on the 2 matters which I mentioned earlier - a regular review of pensions or increases of pensions and, perhaps after due consideration, a national superannuation scheme. As I said, national supperannuation is a complex question and there may be good and valid reasons why such a scheme cannot be introduced. However, I think that the people and the Parliament are entitled to know such reasons. Many of us know the problems which have been experienced in other countries in respect to this particular issue. I support the Bills. 
Has the Minister for Labour and National Service observed on his television set recently that certain young gentlemen for whom warrants were issued, I understand, some time ago, are shacked up at the Melbourne University? Can the Minister inform me what action he or his Department intends to take to prevent these gentlemen from coming into the homes of the people of Australia and from holding the law of this country in contempt? Is there a separate law for those who do not belong to universities and for those who do? 
I endeavoured at the commencement of the speech by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  to take some notes. He started off by stating that the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  when he introduced the Bill had given, in addition to details of the machinery involved in the Bill, a coverage of the strategic position and had taken over the role of the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn).  It would have been an extraordinary thing if the Minister when introducing the Bill had not given the reasons why the Bill was being introduced. But the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition then went on to take 28 minutes in doing exactly the same thing and allowed 2 minutes to discuss the important amendments which the Opposition intends to move. There are certain points of his address I would like to mention. He made reference to me and to the inadequacy of the Government's treatment of the Defence forces. He stated that it was the Australian Labor Party, and he is right, which moved for a joint select committee into pay and conditions in the Services. He did not suggest that it had moved for that in conjunction with a joint select committee of inquiry into the Defence Forces Retirements Benefits Fund. 
That is correct. I voted against it because as chairman of the Joint Select Committee on the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund I have seen just how much is involved in inquiring into that matter alone and 1 would have thought a joint select committee into pay and conditions in the Services would not have had a chance of bringing down a report for a considerable number of years if it did the job that is necessary. I think the Government is quite correct in setting up an independent outside committee to inquire into this matter. I support it and welcome it. 
I do not want to go in detail into the other matters the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition mentioned. He suggested that in view of the failure of the primary industry areas perhaps people in these areas could join the Army. I do not know whether this is now the policy propounded by the Labor Party for the rural areas hut it is an interesting one. He made mention of the Minister for Labour and National Service making some comments about Labor policy. The Minister was referring to the Launceston conference at which the Labor Party agreed that in the case of a national emergency it may introduce conscription. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition then said: 'Do not let him dare refer to the time when the Labor Party came into office at the commencement of the last war'. We got the old story about the death and glory boys, the fighters who fought for Australia's defence, those who in the 1930s had never opposed a Defence vote, those who bad . encouraged the defence of this country. These are furphies that should be clearly understood by the new generation of Australians who were not here then. Until 1939 it was the Labor Party which on all occasions had opposed expenditure on defence and if this country was in a parlous state it was because the Labor Party would not support defence expenditure. Let me refresh the mind of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition; perhaps he can remember. I quote from Hansard of 3rd November 1938 at page 1215 - let it be remembered that war was declared in September 1939 - when  Mr Holloway,  later a Minister in the Labor Government, said: 1 do not charge the Government with not expending enough money on defence; I make it clear at the outset that I think it is expending too much. When a government begins to expend on defence money which should be used for the internal development of the country, then, in my opinion, it is doing wrong. There is no need to sacrifice the living standards of the people for the sake of this panicky defence scheme. 
That was in 1938; we had general war in 1939 and how much did that cost us? He went on: 
The Government is expending much too rapidly on defence. It is making plans for more than the adequate defence of Australia. I make no excuse for saying that 
That was said by one member of the then in-coming Labor government. I now turn to page 1095 on 2nd November 1938 when  Mr Curtin,  whom we have heard referred to, said: 
Defence expenditure must depend entirely upon the conditions which prevail in the world from time to time. Obviously that must be the position. I say that any increase of defence expenditure after the Munich Pact so far as Australia is concerned appears to me to be an utterly unjustifiable and hysterical piece of panic propaganda. 
That was a magnificent speech given for the Labor Party in relation to recruiting and defence expenditure in 1938. Further, at page 1096  Mr Curtin  is reported as saying: 
That is so; they marked their own ticket, but they have now discarded that ticket in order to write a new ticket, much larger in volume, and I venture to say, not sufficiently justified to this Parliament or to the people. I believe that the greater part of this hysteria is based merely on a desire to provide a background for political maneouvring. 
At that time he was talking about defence expenditure. Further at page 1149,  Mr 
Ward, another member of the Labor Party speaking less than one year before general war was declared, is reported to have said: 
It is amusing to hear people say that we shall not give up New Guinea. To those people I would say that if it should become necessary to defend our Mandated Territory, they should defend it themselves. As far as I am concerned, all I can judge about the necessity for retaining New Guinea is that a handful of exploiters have got hold of the country, some interested in aerial transport, some in gold-mining, and some in the search for oil, which, according to reliable reports, has already been found. 
What magnificent speeches made by men who were looking after and at that stage debating the defence of Australia. A general war was declared in less than one year. 1 think that there is a great similarity here. The Deputy Leader of the Opposition is regarded by honourable members opposite - and I think by very few other people - as the Minister for Defence in a Labor government. Is he not saying  the  same thing, that there are no threats-., .nd no risks, that this is all make-believe, that there is no danger to this country, and that in any circumstances we will have 2 year's notice of any threat? Did we have 2 year's warning of Pearl Harbour? Did we have 2 year's warning of the situation when the Japanese came down? Has the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition read the book published recently in which it was stated that it was only because the Emperor of Japan interfered that the Japanese did not come on to Australia. I wonder as to the sense of reality of members of the Labor Party in respect of defence. 
The Deputy Leader of the Opposition thinks that we can have an adequate army in the vicinity of 28,000 personnel, which is the level of the Regular Army at this stage. The Labor Party is saying that we do not need conscription; it proposes to move an amendment which states that conscription should be cut out in January of next year. Has the Deputy Leader of the Opposition, as a potential Minister for Defence, any idea how many effective fighting troops there would be out of an Army of 28,000 when there were deducted the logistic forces, the back-up forces, the reserves, the finance people, the ordnance people, the electrical and mechanical engineers and other technical branches of an army? He would be lucky to get 3 battalions, and possibly that would not cover the artillerymen, the signallers and the other forces which are necessary in a brigade group. If the Deputy Leader of the Opposition contends that this nation at this time should have an Army comprising this number of men, I think he is unaware of the situation which is confronting us. 
Although I may be accused of following the points made in the speech of the Minister for Labour and National Service I will refer to some of the threats and some of the problems which confront Australia. First, I refer to the Nixon Doctrine as stated at Guam in 1969, and its implications to East Asia and Australia. The Americans have said that they are pulling out of South East Asia. They have also said that they will honour their commitments and they will support the small nations in the area. We are in this area. It is an area of threat. 1 think that this is the area to which the threats of the world rr*:re moved; formerly they were in EuropeEurope The Nixon Doctrine said that the United States will help those nations which are prepared to help themselves. Are the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and the members of the Opposition, in the speeches they are now making, as a whole setting an example to the other small nations in South East Asia? ; Secondly, there is the developing military and nuclear power of China together wilh her history of helping subversion and insurgency movements throughout South East Asia. Perhaps now that the Labor Party has wooed China it is confident that there is no threat, that we can disband everything and that we now accept where our responsibilities and our friends are. I am not sure that the Australian people as a whole have yet accepted this proposition, and at some stage this may be something which will be put to the test. Then there is the problem of insurgency and turbulence which has characterised recent events and developments of South East Asia, extending as far afield as the Philippines and Indonesia. Does the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition think that all the dangers, all the threats and all the problems in the small developing nations around us have been settled? Does he suggest that there could not be an incident or that there could not be a threat even from a second class power or a third class power? Does he think that we could meet that situation with 3 battalions? Does he think that we can call up members of the Citizen Military Forces and give them 3 months training or call up some volunteer army, when we have had no notice whatsoever, and that we can equip them and put them into the field to meet any force? I most certainly do not believe that. 
Then there is the future .development of Papua New Guinea as an independent nation. Does not the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition think that there are some problems there? Does he not think that we may have to undertake some joint defence with Papua New Guinea? Does he not think that problems could erupt there and that we may even, in certain circumstances, have to play a part in which we may need forces to assist at that time? Then there is the intrusion of Russian naval units into the Indian Ocean. Does the Labor Party think that this is something which is good for the peace of Australia? Does the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition think that these people will not and cannot interfere in the local politics of the smaller nations and that we in Australia should say: 'Well, there is nothing we can do about it; we have an Army of 28,000 and that is all we need'? I personally believe at this time that the Russians in this area will endeavour - they have endeavoured and will continue to endeavour - to create situations which might eventually bring danger to us. Does the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition think that we will be given 2 years notice? I have never yet seen 2 years notice given of any war, and I think it is even less unlikely in today's circumstances. 
Then there is Australia's commitment to Malaysia and Singapore, and the validity of her policy of forward defence where nations wish the support which this can give. Are we to say to these nations: 'We are reducing our Army. We think that you have got to form a regional agreement, that you have to undertake your own defence. As far as we are concerned - one of the lucky countries - we are going to do less'? I think that the Labor Party is lacking in responsibility. I think it is thoroughly unaware of what is happening and of what could happen in this theatre of the world. There is a great similarity between the speeches being made by leading Labor men today and the speeches which were made back in 1938 when, as I said before, the Labor Party voted against and spoke against any form of preparedness and any improvement of the Army and the defences of this country. Thank God we were given 2 years notice. Have members of the Labor Party forgotten Singapore? Have they forgotten that recruits, with a few weeks training, were put into the front line? Is this their idea of defence? Is their idea, according to the Launceston Conference policy, that if an emergency occurs we certainly will have conscription? What will the Labor Party do? Will it send all the right wing unions up to the front and leave all the left wing unions back at the rear? That is all I can think at this time. 
Let us look at the position of Japan. Japan is moving throughout South East Asia. She is friendly with us at the moment and we wish to retain her friendship. But Japan is, without any doubt, starting to emerge as a military power. Politics in this field can change overnight. It may well be that because of trade or other circumstances the Japanese will decide on another role. Perhaps another political party may come into control in Japan. The Labor Party says: 'We see no need for concern. The war in Vietnam is over. The troops are coming home. Let us disband the Army and go into a volunteer force'. 
Returning to the question of a volunteer force, there may be some elements of truth in what has been said by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition. If the Kerr Committee's report is as I think it should be, and if the report of the Joint Select Committee on the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Legislation is as I think it should be and as I am hoping it will be, there may be an accelerated rate of recruitment into the Services. It may be possible, if threats do not occur and if the situation surrounding us does not deteriorate, that a volunteer army can be maintained in the vicinity of 40,000 members. But this is not possible overnight. At this stage the Labor Party is moving for the abolition of conscription by January of 1972. This is completely beyond reality. In my opinion those members of the Labor Party who apparently seem unconcerned about the defence of this country and unconcerned with the protection of our national heritage and our national responsibility are the ones who have moved for cutting out conscription. They are the ones who have moved that we should spend less on defence. They are the ones who say that we have no reason to care and no reason to be concerned. 
Yesterday or the day before the  President  of the Australian Labor Party in Victoria was involved with the Students for Democratic Society, who are against conscription and who appear to want only the complete wrecking of any defences in Australia. He was seemingly there awaiting a phone call to come when the Commonwealth police raided the headquarters in Carlton. What an example to the people of Australia! We have seen the situation where the Leader of the Opposition - in fairness, perhaps he was forced to do it - asked those people who had been conscripted to serve Australia, to mutiny, rebel and refuse to carry out orders. There is no doubt in my mind that the Australian Army, as far as its troops are concerned, has never been better served than it is today. Whatever the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition says, there is no doubt in my mind that the Regular Army has not suffered through conscription. 
We have a one-army system. Both the national servicemen and the regular servicemen are happy and they have proved how effectively the system can work. If there bad been great concern about conscription there would have been a far greater response to the urgent national appeal by the Leader of the Opposition for mutiny in our troops. The national serviceman has been the finest type of serviceman this country has ever had. Tha regular serviceman has accepted him. At the present time we have an army of about 40,000 men. With conscription we have also behind us a reserve force of about 40,000 men who have done their 2 years service. Can the Deputy Leader of the Opposition tell me how in his man's army he is going to have gold rifles and gold spurs and everything except any force that could meet any situation? Can he tell me how he is going to obtain these. 
There are many things I would like to say about our requirements for defence. At the present time there is a need for us to face up to reality. To a certain extent we are on our own. We have said that we will support our national heritage and our national obligations. We have commitments under the Nixon doctrine to do more for our own defence. The days have gone when we could have an army of 28,000 men because we knew that any instant we could have the United States of America or the United Kingdom with us. Those days have gone. We hope and we feel confident that the United States will honour her commitments. We know that the United Kingdom may try to put a task force into this area. But these circumstances are all dependent on the situation at the time. I tremble at the thought of any situation that could arise in which perhaps there would be a delay in this aid coming to us and the whole continent of Australia and our other commitments were supported and defended by a brigade group of 3 battalions and an army of 28,000 men. 1 do hot support the amendments proposed by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. I think that being able to object to a specific war is ridiculous. It has never worked anywhere else and it will never work here. There is an obligation on the young men of this country to stand for the defence of this country and be prepared to play their part. I am sure that, if it comes to an election, whatever other failures the Government may have the people of Australia will respond to that one challenge. 
I do not know whether the distinguished honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross)  who has just spoken remembers that during the Second World War in most theatres a poster was displayed which depicted a gentleman with half a head, the nose hanging over a wall, 2 ears, and 2 hands.  His  name was Foo. Everybody was told that Foo was here and that Foo was listening. In other words, throughout the defence areas and in the home bases we had very strong warnings that at all times security had to be protected. We remember distinctly the theory that careless talk costs lives. The honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  today at question time asked the Prime Minister whether, in view of the impending withdrawal of the Task Force from Vietnam, the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  might be prepared to delay such a debate as we are having now until the troops have reached home. But the Leader of the Opposition seemed to take a smart point. He seemed to do nothing and hence the debate has gone on. It was implicit in the question of the honourable member for Isaacs, that in view of the need for security, a careless remark in a debate such as this could well give information to the enemy which could affect not only the Task Force but also those of our allies who are still fighting there. 
Whatever the Labor Party may think I contend that we still have some responsibility for those people with whom we have been fighting and it is not just a matter of picking up sticks, getting out and saying: To hell with the South Vietnamese'. This seems to have been the attitude of the Labor Party throughout this debate. The honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross)  - I give him credit - said he did not think it right that some honourable members should ask for information that had security classification. He said that these questions should not be answered and I give him credit for this. But he is a member of the Labor Party and his  Deputy  Leader, who led for the Opposition in this debate, put forward certain specific propositions. The honourable member for Brisbane reiterated them, as did the honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison).  The first proposition was that this debate is intended to find out the present dispositions of the Australian Task Force in Vietnam. What does he mean by the present dispositions of the Australian Task Force in Vietnam? Anybody who has read a spy novel would know, and if some honourable members opposite had the courage to go to a war movie or a spy movie at some time they would learn, that the first requirement of any enemy is to find out the dispositions of your troops. In reply to my verbal friend, the honourable member for Stuart  (Mr Foster),  who is interjecting, I point out that if he had been out in the Desert and the Labor Party at home at that time had been asking for the dispositions of the Sixth or Seventh Divisions, I am sure he would have been elated as a member of the Labor Party to learn that such information was freely being given out! 
What does the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  want? Does he want the Government to say that the First or Second Battalion in our Task Force  -  I am not referring to actual battalions there - is on a certain longitude and latitude on the map so that it can easily be identified, so that it can easily be bombarded with rockets and so that it can easily be attacked? Does he want it to be said that the defence perimeter around that area is of such-and-such depth? The Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  has already referred to one question asked by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, not relating, as the honourable member for Brisbane seemingly took it, to a Vietcong minefield but to an Australian defence minefield surrounding our area. If honourable members analyse the question they will see that it asks: How long is the minefield? How wide is the minefield? How deep is the minefield? I can assure honourable members that anybody who wished to gain that information would spend hundreds of dollars in any area to get it. But, as the Minister said, we do not need a Soviet spy ring in Australia; the Australian Parliament will do because every time a debate of this kind comes on and every time some suggestion is made as to when a battalion will come out we are giving something of value to the enemy. We may laugh. The honourable member for Brisbane said we are too close to the war and, therefore, we cannot make an impartial assessment. I would suggest that we are too far from the war and that if we were a damned sight closer to it we would be more concerned than we are. 
Let us analyse what the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and other honourable members opposite have said. They want to know the disposition of our troops and also the disposition of the South Vietnamese troops. They may say: 'To hell wi.h the South Vietnamese', but I, and I think the majority of the Australian people, recognise that we undertook an obligation there. We are now withdrawing but this does not mean we should not have some care, concern and consideration for those who are left in the area and who may have some difficulty. I admit they may have some difficulty in taking over from the Australian Task Force. The American force is withdrawing and the Australian force is withdrawing. Is it not reasonable security information to an enemy for it to learn that, for instance, the 1 1 5th- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Hallet)Order! There is no substance in the point of order. 
One must forgive the honourable member for Sturt who has been under strain for a considerable number of years. If it is known from this detail of dispositions that the- 115th ARVN division is to take over in the Phuoc Tuy Province, is it not reasonable to assume that its present location is already known by the enemy and that if the division is moved its present location then becomes an area of weakness? Is it not reasonable to assume that an attack may be mounted on this area? When one looks at the question asked by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition yesterday one just wonders if he was Minister for Defence what the devil would happen to the defence of this country and anyone with whom we are allied. He asked the question: On what date are we vacating such-and-such an area? On what date are we doing this? What does he expect the Minister for Defence to say in reply? 
It is and has always been a principle in any warfare that withdrawal is the most difficult operation to undertake. It involves high security, even in an orderly withdrawal, not a retreat. And this is not a retreat. When a new force goes into the area it has to get to know the minefields and the situation in that area and if the enemy knows that our troops are getting out on such-and-such a date and that incoming troops will arrive on a certain date it would know that that is the time to hit them because they have not yet familiarised themselves with the situation. The Government has and should take every precaution for the safety of our troops. It also has a responsibility, morally and in every other way, to see that there is some consideration given to those we are leaving behind us. I am not, nor do I think the Australian public will be, particularly appreciative of the action taken by the Opposition not only in initiating this debate but also in asking questions of the standard and type that its members have asked in this House over the last weeks and years. The Australian public is under no doubt that the Opposition's attitude is to hell with the South Vietnamese'. The Labor policy is f.o.q., which means 'fall out quick. Let us get back to the defence area. Let us have no more patrolling. It does not matter what the enemy does; we have had it chaps. Let us scuttle'. And scuttle' is the word as far as the Australian Labor Party is concerned. I do not think the Australian public sees it from that viewpoint and I think the Government has acted honourably. I only wish to goodness that this debate had not taken place and that the Opposition had been responsible enough to accept a delay of the debate until the force came home. 
Order! The time allotted for this discussion has concluded. 
I would hate to disappoint the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James),  who, with his usual charm, made what perhaps to him was a logical progression through the argument in favour of the amendment which has been proposed, but I would hasten to assure him that I am not one of those people who are going to support it. What I did take exception to, and I am sure just about every Australian would take exception to, was the inference at the end of his speech that some Australian servicemen returning from Vietnam would be victims of drug addiction. . 
I am sure it would take little to convince the honourable member that there were because I am sure he wants to be convinced that there are. But I have been assured by responsible people in the 
Ministry - indeed, by everyone to whom I have spoken - that there has been no such case. With the confidence I have in our young national servicemen, I accept that assurance regardless of what the honourable member for Hunter may infer. The honourable member also referred to the great tragedy caused by drug addiction. I would not know how this subject would fit into a debate on this provision, but the honourable member spoke on it for some considerable time. He said that the members of this Parliament with a medical background would know of the great tragedy caused by drugs. I thought it was the policy of some members of the Australian Labor Party, particularly those in the medical profession, that certain drugs should be legalised in this  0011:1117.  The legalisation of marihuana has been spoken of by the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass). 
I did not mention dangerous drugs. I mentioned marihuana. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  .Order 1 would remind the honourable member for La Trobe that the debate is at the Committee stage and that We are considering a clause of the Bill. I appreciate that the honourable member for Hunter did move into another area. 
He did, indeed. I thought you allowed him to do so,  Mr Deputy Chairman. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  I would ask the honourable member to return to the clause before the Committee. 
Could I conclude my remark by saying that members of the Opposition who are in the medical profession- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  1 did allow the honourable member for Hunter to move into this area, but I have asked the honourable member for La Trobe to revert to the subject matter of the clause before the Committee. 
All I am trying to say in respect of drugs and conscription is that there appears to be some people in the medical profession who are encouraging the legalisation of certain drugs which, if the remarks of the honourable member for Hunter are true, must have some effect on the persons taking them. The main point of the honourable member's speech, which he was not impeded in making, seemed to be that the sons of poor families went to war and the sons of rich families did not. I do not remember the honourable member being disturbed on this issue. I would like to point out that it is the catch cry of the Australian Labor Party that one is not a worker if one does not vote for that Party. The Labor Party would have been in office long ago if every worker voted for it. It is quite understandable why they do not. 
There is no proof whatsoever that the majority of national servicemen who go to Vietnam are the sons of so-called workers. That is purely the belief of the honourable member for Hunter. It is a political argument. I know many blokes who have gone to Vietnam who are the sons of, if you like, rich men. But who in this country is not a worker? Who in this country does not work? Does one have to be a brainless nit like some people I know who set the standard of what a worker is? Does one have to be like the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)?  I should think that the majority of workers would not want to be. 
I wish to speak to the point of order,  Mr Deputy Chairman.  I said 'if the typical worker is similar to the honourable member for Sturt'. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Hallett)  - The honourable member for Sturt will resume his seat. I ask the honourable member for La Trobe whether he was referring to a particular member of the House when he made that remark? 
I thought I was being flattering to the honourable member for Sturt in saying that if he typifies the worker in this country- 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Order! 
I if I may be abject, indeed I think it is an exaggeration. I do not think he is typical of any worker in this country. Furthermore,  Sir, if  I may revert- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  - The remark has been withdrawn. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  It has been withdrawn. 
My question, which is directed to the Prime Minister, is supplementary to that asked by the honourable member for Swan. I agree that when the Australian troops return from Vietnam they should be sent home as early as possible for Christmas. However, will the Prime Minister ensure that when the Army returns to Australia it is given some form of acclaim . by the Australian public and is not just allowed to disband? Will he ensure that either a full scale review or a march past in the capital cities is undertaken so that the Australian people can give acclaim for a military job well done? 
 Mr Speaker,  I desire to ask you a question. Is it a fact that a  Mr Thwaites  has been appointed to the position of  Deputy  Librarian of the Parliament? Is it a fact that  Mr Thwaites  formerly served with the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation? Is it a fact that you have received, or have you received, complaints from the Australian Labor Party suggesting that because a man has served with the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation he is unacceptable to the Labor Party? 

 - Mr Deputy Chairman- 

 If my friend, the Arab from the other side, would control himself he might learn. I did not intend to enter this debate, but as a drinker and a smoker I am sympathetic to the viewpoint put forward by the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass).  As a heavy smoker, I would not do anything which would in any way assist anybody to get hooked on drink, cigarettes or marihuana. I think it is an incredible thing and I think it is rather typical of the situation we have in this country and in other Western countries today that there are those people, perhaps people of great and high education, who, if not endeavouring to have marihuana and the soft drugs legalised, are, it could be interpreted by some people, not doing much to stop young folk of this country starting to take it, taste it or to get involved with it. Whatever these honourable gentlemen of great scientific and medical knowledge may say as to what the medical pundits of the world may be saying in respect of marihuana- 
 My friend, if you got off it 1 think you would do better. All I can say is that at this stage I know of no country in the world, except the undeveloped countries, which have legalised marihuana. We have had it thrown up that marihuana has done no harm to India. I do not think India has legalised marihuana but it has signed a convention against drugs. 
I think it is terribly dangerous for people to propound these arguments in a Parliament such as the Parliament of Australia and not expect the young innocent person who is perhaps on the fringe in the university or wherever it may be to refrain from quoting these gentlemen who are saying that marihuana is harmless. These people have the medical knowledge to propound this argument, but what is the point in propounding it in the Parliament of Australia at this stage? 
There speaks another of my medical friends. I know that the Labor Party is rather mixed and involved on this subject. We in Australia do not wish to get involved in the great drug problems that are confronting other countries in the world at this time. Surely it must be people in this Parliament, members of the Australian Labor Party and people with medical knowledge who must take responsibility for endeavouring as far as possible to stop young people getting hooked on drugs, whether they be soft or hard. If I were an apprentice, a plumber or a workman or the type that the honourable member for Maribyrnong is supposed to represent and 1 heard the speech that he made not only here but on radio and television I would be most concerned. 
If the honourable member for Bendigo had as much brain in the top of his head as he has in the roof of his mouth I think he would do better. I admit the sincerity of the honourable member for Maribyrnong, but all I am trying to say is that when we hear academic members of universities and medical members of Parliament continually repeating that marihuana is harmless, that marihuana has no ill effects and that the taking of marihuana should not be treated as a criminal offence I think it is doing nothing but encouraging young people who are innocent and who do not understand exactly what is being said. I think it is an extraordinary thing to find members of the Labor Party, in whatever guise, taking this action when not only the Government but also other thinking people are endeavouring to stop people in Australia from getting into the situation in which perhaps people in other countries find themselves. It has been said in debates here recently that American troops are highly involved with drugs. American troops probably started on drugs by taking marihuana. I do not know; I have no idea in the world. The inference to be drawn from the remarks of one member of the Labor Party was that it was fairly obvious that Australian troops returning from Vietnam would be hooked on drugs. All I am trying to say is that, at a time like this, whatever the honourable member may feel about marihuana, his beliefs are as yet unproven. I find it incredible, not merely as a member of Parliament but as a father of children in this country, that Labor members, including those who are doctors, rise and make speeches such as have been made in this House this day. 
I agree with respect to alcohol. I have seen what it has done to the honourable member. But as far as I am concerned- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Armitage)  - Order! I call on the honourable member for La Trobe to withdraw that remark. 
I withdraw the remark. Obviously that is not the cause. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member will withdraw that remark unreservedly and apologise. 
I withdraw and apologise. There must be some other reason. I am a heavy smoker. Frankly, I would give anything to break away from the habit. It could be said that I have not the courage- 
I have not the will power. That is quite correct. Therefore, I would not- 
1 think that what the honourable member says is quite correct. But I would not do anything which would lead or encourage anybody under any circumstances to become hooked on anything such as cigarettes or marihuana, however harmless it may be. I take the point that the honourable member has made that for the poor young kid who has taken his first sniff of or has first smoked marihuana, perhaps the penalty is too great at this time. But unless- 
If the honourable member will let me continue to develop my argument, he will see that 1 am agreeing with him. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Order! 
All I can say is this: If we do not have a penalty and if we do not bring to the attention of the youth of this country the seriousness of taking marihuana - perhaps the first sniff or the first puff - surely we will encourage them to go into a chemist shop to buy it and to do all of the things that we do not want them to do. I am sorry; I respect the honourable member for Maribyrnong but I do not respect those who by any means encourage, or may appear to give encouragement to, people to take marihuana or any other soft drug at this time. I do not think that this nation wants any part of it. If the sophisticated medicos of the Australian Labor Party feel that the people should, I think that the Australian people will repudiate them. As far as I am concerned, no- 
I wish that you, my distinguished friend, in your short career here could only make understandable what you are trying to get across. I recognise the sincerity of the honourable member for Maribyrnong. I will have no part of the point that the honourable member propounds, and I am quite sure that the Australian people, particularly parents, will have no part of it. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! I will hear the honourable member for Angas on a point of order. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  I call upon the honourable member for Bendigo to withdraw those remarks and to apologise. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Order! 

 Dr CASS (Maribyrnong) -  Mr Deputy Chairman,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member is now debating the question. 
I do not support the motion for the suspension of Standing Orders. Although we saw the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  at his plausible best and although we saw his courtly court manners in presenting his arguments to you,  Mr Speaker,  perhaps with some effect, I would have been more impressed as a member supporting the Government if I felt that the Leader of the Opposition was prepared to open for discussion all matters on which he and his Party have propounded policies over the last week. It does appear that the Leader of the Opposition and the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  feel that there is some basis for believing that the Australian nation is waiting solely to hear the honourable member for Hindmarsh and the Leader of the Opposition in respect of industrial matters. I think there are other matters that perhaps should also be clarified, and perhaps the Leader of the Opposition if he moves a motion following the suspension of Standing Orders, would be prepared to show his genuine concern by saying that there are other matters. As an instance, on television last night, in respect of immigration policy, another great issue of the Australian Labor Party- 
A motion could be moved for the suspension of Standing Orders to enable this matter to be discussed too. 
He gets 20 minutes; I get two. 
No, but the point was made by the Leader of the Opposition that members on this side should support this great matter of importance. Then we got into a discourse on industrial relations. I am only trying to make the point that this is not the only instance and if the appeal from the Leader of the Opposition is genuine we should be able to be given clarity on other matters which also vitally affect me as a supporter of this Government and which affect this House as a whole. Therefore I am against the suspension of Standing Orders because I consider that it is nothing but an endeavour to float this particular policy but not other policies, such as the policy on immigration, which could perhaps be more embarrassing to the Labor Party. 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Mr Clyde Cameron's)  be agreed to. 
It is always an experience to follow the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  in a debate, although usually he gives one more to speak about than he has this afternoon. The honourable member said that the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  should hurry back because nobody tells him anything and what he is told he does not understand. Coming from the honourable member for Grayndler, that is really quite remarkable. It must be a habit that he has formed over the last couple of weeks, because it seems to me to be what he has mainly been saying about his own Leader. Furthermore, for the Opposition to move a censure motion of this type in respect of a matter which I will discuss in detail, in an endeavour to make it a great emotive issue, is quite hypocritical. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  said how ashamed and humiliated Australia must be. I wonder whether he remembers his shame and humiliation, or whether he had any, when during the greatest Press conference in Australia he was propounding the policy of the Australian Labor Party and was repudiated by his Party within 24 hours. He had to pull his head in so that he looked like something out of a freak show. 
Having listened to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  I wonder what he was propounding. I have come to the conclusion, in agreement with the Acting Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony),  that this is a censure motion. The Opposition thinks that it can build an issue out of the training of Cambodians in Vietnam that will offset Hawke. I have never heard such rubbish in all my life. I believe that a Minister must take responsibility for mistakes that are made in his department. I feel that a mistake has been made in the Department. The Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  has admitted this and has said that he will see that, to the best of his ability, it is not committed again. It has also been said that this was a low key matter and the low key was in the approach from the American Embassy to the Department of Foreign Affairs. I would have said that if it were to have been treated on a high key - as a matter on which the  President  of the United States would question the Prime Minister of Australia - the Ambassador himself would have contacted the Prime Minister or would have contacted directly the Minister for Defence or the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen).  But this was not done. lt was one of those approaches down the line in which someone said to somebody in the Department at a low level that this question could come up. I admit that the departmental officer should have spoken to the head of his department and somebody should have passed it on I admit the mistake; the Minister admits the mistake and the Acting Prime Minister admits the mistake. What shame and harm have been done to Australia? The Prime Minister sensibly rang the Cabinet, the Cabinet sent the Prime Minister a brief and he agreed to the commitment. It is not a major issue, even though the Labor Party wants to make out that this will mean another Vietnam. I have never heard such rubbish. 
We are training foreign troops in Australia already. We have Indonesian officers at the Royal Military College. We have 
Pakistanis and indians, Singaporeans are coming, and we have officers from Brunei, does this mean that every war in which they are involved will mean our involvement in them? What it means is that, as has already been announced and accepted by the Opposition and the Government, we have a training school in Vietnam and have agreed to maintain it. We have now agreed that the Cambodian Army should be given the use of the facility and be trained there. Because it is Labor Party policy never to help anybody but to expect everybody to help us are we now to say that we will help everybody except Cambodia? Does the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  no longer believe that there is direct aggression in Cambodia? He came back and said there was aggression. We believed him and the people believed him, but the Labor Party broke him. Is it now the policy of the Labor Party to help nobody but to take in large blandishments so it does not get too involved in election policy and can always answer either way with respect to anything? When it gets down to the issue, the Labor Party would not help a soul in this world but would expect everybody else to come to its aid. 
I would like to read a letter I have because, when one listens to what the Leader of the Opposition and the Deputy Leader of the Opposition say, it wo llC seem that to train these Cambodian troops would be to prolong the war in IndoChina. 1 presume that if honourable members opposite did not want to prolong the war in Indo-China they would let the Communists come in and take it over. If they do not want to prolong the war, if they do not want to do anything, if they do not even want to give them the very basest of assistance because that would prolong the war, that means they repudiate them and are saying to them in effect: Go to hell. We are safe. You live under the Communists. We are pulling out'. That may be Labor Party policy but I will not accept that it is the policy of the Government or a policy that the people of Australia will support. Let me read the letter for the enlightenment of members of the Labor Party. It is dated Sunday, Sth July 1970, and it reads: 
To the Prime Minister, Government and people of the Kingdom of Laos. 
We the members of the Australian Parliamentary Mission to Indo-China, representing both Government and Opposition in the Australian Parliament, wish to express our gratitude and admiration for you and your people. 
I leave out the next paragraph The letter continues: 
We have been profoundly moved by the abundant evidence of your courage and determination to pursue a course seeking only the right to live at peace and in neutrality. We deeply deplore the open and evident aggression being committed against you by your more powerful neighbour North Vietnam. 
We have noted that even now you do not seek military aid from our country, and that you are grateful for the assistance in civil projects we have been able to give. 
This is where it gets really farcical: 
On our return to our country we will do all in our power to alert our Parliament and alert our people to the vital and urgent need for world opinion to come to your aid in reactivating the International Control Commission and in bringing all the signatories to the 1962 Accords to honour their pledge to maintain your neutrality. 
As a small nation ourselves- 
This is heart rending -  our hearts and minds will be with you in the fateful days ahead, and whatever help we can give you will come with our admiration and respect for your courage and steadfastness in the face of grievous losses and much provocation. 
We leave you in the faith and the hope that one day the mighty Mekong will flow throughout its entire length through lands living in mutual peace and prosperity. 
The signatories include R. M. Holten, Leader, Minister for Repatriation. 
You can laugh harder at this one: They include  Senator Reg  Bishop,  Senator for  South Australia, Australian Labor Party. The next is Gordon Bryant, member for Wills, Australian Labor Party. Why is not your horse laugh coming out now, or are you stunned? Then we get  Mr Harry  Webb, member for Stirling, Australian Labor Party. Are these men hypocrites? Did they believe it when they wrote that letter? Did they believe it when they signed it and are they sitting back now listening to the debate not on the censure of the Minister but on whether or not Australia should play some part in helping the Cambodian people? There is no doubt at all that we have agreed to train Cambodians here. Should we exclude them? After what we have heard the Labor signatories agreed to, should we prohibit them? By sending them to an existing school in South Vietnam - not in Cambodia - are we entering into the Cambodian war? Because we have Pakistanis here at the Royal Military College are we entering into the threats of war between India and Paistan? Because we have Malaysians here are we entering into the threats of war with Malaysia? Or is the policy of the Labor Party now coming out clearly? If one reads the rules laid down at the Launceston Conference, one finds that they are covered in cotton wool. Members of the Opposition can answer anything to any query on any given subject and it still does not have to be the truth. But is this now the hard core of opinion in the Labor Party that is coming out? 
The Labor Party is not prepared to play any part in helping our regional allies. It is not prepared to send one man to Malaysia or to any of the other countries in South East Asia under the 5-power agreement. Why do they not get up and say it, because this is in fact what they are proving to the nations of South East Asia? They are proving that when they talk they are doing so for the sake of impressing the Australian public and there is little veracity in what they say. As was said recently, how can any nation have any reliance on Australian foreign policy when the alternative government of this country has, on almost every point, made it clear that it is not prepared to do anything? As was said by one speaker this afternoon, we should protect only our own shores and we should not send anybody out of Australia no matter what the situation and no matter what is taking place. It does not matter who is suffering, the Labor Party will sit here and expect everybody else to accept the responsibility. But oh, brother, can they moan when we are about to be hit. I refer honourable members, as I did in the debate a fortnight ago, to what was said by Labor Party spokesmen in respect of defence in 1938  -  what they would not do and what there was no need to do. 
I think the people of Australia will realise that the Labor Party's foreign policy is a farce and that this censure motion is purely a vehicle to try and get this across as an issue to the Australia people. I agree that the Department has been tardy, and I think somebody within it should be reprimanded. 
The Minister must and did accept responsibility and will see this does not happen again. The words 'damaging and dangerous' appear in the censure motion. In what way is this damaging and dangerous? A mistake has been made. But, God help us, the Labor Party - the alternative government - has been committing mistakes for the last 20 years and has never got within a bull's roar of government. 
I address a question to you,  Mr Speaker.  Has your attention been drawn to the Hansard report of 13th October 1971 wherein at page 2295is the report of a speech made by the honourable member for Reid at 10.21 p.m. and, later on that day, the report of a speech made by the honourable member for Isaacs at 10.50 p.m.? Has your attention been drawn also to a report in the 'Age' of the morning of 13th October indicating the same speeches as having been made the night before? As this concerns the veracity of the Hansard reporters will you investigate whether there has been a mistake in the Hansard record? Are the dates in Hansard correct or is it a fact, as I believe it, that Press reporting of this Parliament depends on who gives a speech to whom and it does not matter when a member makes it? 
Is the Minister for Customs and Excise aware of, and have any approaches been made to him regarding, the excessive amount of pornographic literature that appears to be coming into Australia and is flooding many of the book shops in our capital cities? Many of the covers of these pornographic books would rate top billing in Port Said. Can the Minister tell me whether these books are being imported or whether they are being printed and bound in Australia and, if the latter is the case, whether they are eligible for the book bounty? If so, will he look at the matter more closely? 

 - Mr Speaker, I claim to have been misrepresented. On 1st November last in the Sunraysia 'Daily' - with apologies to the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  - the 'Courier' of Ballarat, Victoria, the 'Examiner* of Launceston, Tasmania and the 'Advertiser' of 
Adelaide, South Australia indicating what an independent Press we have in Australia, there appeared an article about a meeting called by a man named  Mr Buff.  I think the meeting was in respect of the matter of a second resurrection. The article contains this statement: 
Two of the MPs whose endorsement the committee will oppose are the Environment, Aborigines and Arts Minister,  Mr Howson,  and former Navy Minister,  Mr Jess. 

 Mr Jess has never been so honoured. 1 do not mind being blamed for what I have done, but not for what I have not done. 
We are allowed 10 minutes to speak on the defence estimates which appropriate money for 5 departments. In my opinion it is a complete waste of time, as I have said every year when debating these estimates, to expect to have a realistic debate on defence when honourable members are allowed a period of 10 minutes in which to deal with defence matters. But after listening to the debate that has taken place in this chamber  today  I believe it is interesting to see the dilemma in which the Opposition Party appears to be placed in advocating a uniform defence policy. Perhaps one could say that it is intriguing to listen to the various facets being put forward by honourable members opposite in the socalled defence estimates debate. Let me just equate- 
Yes, and I hope later to come to what the right honourable member for Higgins said. Let me quote what was said by one of the front bench members of the Australian Labor Party - and f presume being on the front bench he is a member of the potential Ministry. I refer to the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns).  In the 'Australian Left Review' of May 1971 he was asked this question: 
What prospects are there for the ALP left wing to win the leadership of the ALP federally, and what policy differences do you think would be likely to eventuate if this occurred? 
The honourable member for Lalor answered as follows: 
The ALP left wing has a very good chance of winning Federal Conference and Executive Leadership of the ALP. Among the changes in policy this would bring are: 
An end to the principle that the US alliance is crucial, and a beginning of support for the "human rights' revolution around the world most often expressed in the national liberation movements. 
Here is one of the front bench members of the Labor Party stating that the left wing, if it got control of .the Labor Executive, would move for the removal of the word crucial' from Labor policy. I have read it and agree that it is a fact. In other words, the Labor Party no longer regards the United States alliance or the ANZUS Treaty as crucial. The honourable member for Lalor has just returned from an overseas trip. One of the countries in which he spent a considerable time was the Soviet Union. According to a headline in the Sunday Observer' he referred to it as a place where there is no dissent, a place where people are all content. I suggest that the people of Australia could say to him that there is no dissent because the Russians do not tolerate people such as the honourable member for very many minutes. If he says there is no dissent, perhaps he should ask the Jewish people and those people who have moved out of the Soviet Union and the areas over which the Soviet Union has control. 
Let me refer to the defence policy of a Labor government. Again we come back to this same front bench member. The Age' this morning referred to his great revival meeting of 3rd December. Whenever he has been to the Soviet Union there has been a revival within months of that visit. Talking about American policy - and this is how he and the Labor Party encourage recruiting - he said: 
It's changing the colour of the corpses. It doesn't matter how many corpses there are as long as they're not white. 
He goes on: 
. future national servicemen were not being trained to defend Australia, but to 'kill Asians in Asia' and in New -Guinea. 
That is magnificent recruiting. It must give encouragement. The article continues: 
On defence policy  Dr Cairns  said: 'To be spending S 1,300m a year on war and defence is completely unjustified. It should be cut down to spend on education or other needs'. 
This is the basis on which the Labor Party tries to present to the people of Australia a defence policy, lt talks about cutting out conscription. If conscription were cut out - and the Labor Party claims that it would do this if it became the government - the army would be reduced to somewhere in the vicinity of 33,000 to 34,000 troops. 
That is the figure of the volunteer force as against the total regular army strength. The Opposition claims with its war of words - they are nothing but words - that it would not reduce the defence vote. But with the way wages are continually going up under  Mr Hawke  and those who support him we would be paying the same amount of money for fewer troops. There is no doubt about that whatsoever. Prior to conscription the volunteer army consisted of about  33,000  to  34,000  men. The field force would be somewhere in the vicinity of  19,000.  In a field force of  19,000  there would be approximately  5,500  infantrymen. The balance would be in the supporting and the logistic arms. A further  10,000  would be in the training schools and the administration. So what the Labor Party has said about defence in its pre-election conferences is that it considers that an infantry force of  5,500  in the field force is approximately what is necessary at this particular time. 
People should not only listen to the words of blandishment of that figurehead with the grey hair but also analyse in detail what is being said and endeavour to observe what this means for Australia. I have heard it said that there is no threat to Australia from the Soviet Union. Of course the Russians are all contentment! There is no dissent; they want to be friends with everybody. There is no threat from Mainland China, says the Labor Party. That may be so as far as some sections of the Labor Party are concerned, but as far as Australia and the rest of the world are concerned that has yet to be proven. We wish to live in friendship with the Chinese, but to say that there is not going to be subversion or any threat of trouble in South East Asia is absolute rubbish. 
The people of Australia must accept that we have to spend more money on defence. Indeed, the right honourable member for Higgins said that either we have to spend more on defence or we have to cut down our manpower or our capital equipment. In  1968  defence expenditure was  4.6  per cent of the gross national product. In  1 969  it was  4  per cent. In  1970  it was  3.6  per cent and now it is running at about  3.4  per cent. I am glad to find that the right honourable member for Higgins now believes that the defence vote should be kept up. I support what the right honourable member for Higgins said when he hoped that a defence statement would be made that could be debated fully in this House. The last defence statement made in this House was in March  1970,  and  6  people were allowed to debate it. The debate was adjourned and it has never come on the agenda again. I am merely agreeing with the right honourable member for Higgins that there is a need for a full debate in respect to defence. 
I agree with what he said about forward defence and the Fortress Australia policy. These are slogans that are coined by the Press and occasionally linked on to by particular speakers. Over the last  10  years I and others in this chamber have said that there is a need for Australia to form a balanced defence force. There is a need to have a force that can carry out the role of defence of the homeland as well as meet our obligations overseas. I am glad to find that the right honourable member for Higgins is now prepared to adopt that. We do not contend that the battalion in Malaysia at this particular time is all that would be required in the event of a war in which we were involved, but at least it shows our allies that we are prepared to accept some responsibility and to stand with them and be counted. This is of value. If we just pulled in behind what is called Fortress Australia' - I do not agree with it though, I agree with defence of the homeland - and did nothing, who would believe us? 
We have a requirement in the army today to retrain soldiers. In the past we have trained them for jungle warfare and for warfare in the rice paddies and Vietnam area. We must assess our whole defence policy - of the army, navy and air force - to see that we are capable of defending the homeland and at the same time maintaining our lines of communication and logistics, as well as being able to provide for any threat or commitment in which we may become involved overseas. I believe that we have to spend more on defence. I think that the people expect us to spend more on defence and I think that they will repudiate the Labor Party for the policies it has propounded. 
It has been most interesting to listen to the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds).  One is always inspired when one hears a party in opposition speak about what it would do if it were in government because in opposition it has no responsibility. One cannot accept what the honourable member for Barton says when he refers to the $50m or $60m aid given to Indonesia as a mere spit in the bucket, the inference being that the Labor Party would double it. If one adds that to the cost of the other promises made by the Labor Party over the last 3 years one wonders what the Australian public would be called upon to meet in respect of taxation under a Labor government. A government can do only so much. A party in opposition can promise anything. It has no responsibility. As long as it can fool the people it has a chance of getting into power, but it is when such a party gets in that the people have cause to be concerned about those promises which were never carried out. 
The honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  referred to Professor Arndt, a distinguished former member of the Labor Party, who had criticised the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Labor delegation when they went to China because in his opinion they left Australia without any options in respect of negotiation. The honourable member for Barton then referred to Professor T. B. Millar and quoted him as having said that Australia was condemned to a lifetime of conservatism. I think that is a fair comment. When I listen to the honourable member for Barton and other members of the Labor Party I think that is right. I can understand it and I am sure the Australian people can understand it. 
Listening to this foreign affairs debate, in which each  speaker  has 10 minutes, I noticed an interesting slip that was made by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren).  When he was making his speech on how we should abandon Taiwan and how Mainland China - Red China, if you wish - is now the mecca of all purity and how we must adopt its ways and carry on its shadow he said: 'We on this side of the Labor Party . . .'.I have no doubt he meant to say: 'We on this side of the Parliament' but what he said was: 'We on this side of the Labor Party'. When we look at half of what has been said in the debate until this moment we can see that there are still a considerable number of sides to the Labor Parly. The honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  started off very well indeed speaking about the aid which we should give to the South Pacific island countries. I agree with him emphatically. But after that be got on to the American bases and got on to knocking the United States - the usual policy. Then we heard from the honourable member for Reid. He could not but get a few cracks in against the United States of America. 
The honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope)  told us how the Labor Government had done such a magnificent job in the last war. I was around at that time. Recently. I quoted what  Mr Curtin  said in 1937 about increased expenditure for the defence of New Guinea. He stated that any further expenditure would be a complete waste of time. So, it is all very well to say how magnificently that Labor government behaved. I do not knock it. We were under attack. What did the Labor government do in that situation? Naturally, it called for the aid of the United States of America. However, at this stage of our history, according to Opposition members, it is not a matter of remembering that we called and they came and helped us in our hour of need; it is a matter of knocking them right, left and centre, embarrassing them in every field and, as the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  did in the 'Australian Left Review', standing up for national liberation movements throughout the country. 
If the speeches which have been made in this debate are analysed, it will be seen that a certain amount has been said about East Pakistan. I am sure there is not a member in this chamber who does not agree that ultimately we must give more aid to East Pakistan. We have an obligation to give aid. However, the calls that are coming from the other side are for the independence of East Pakistan from its present militaristic rule. I am not arguing that one way or the other but is it right that members of the Opposition should be arguing for the independence of East Pakistan when they could not care  a  hoot in hell about the independence of Cambodia and South Vietnam and when they seemingly have no concern for the independence of Taiwan? Indeed, the honourable member for Reid who is a front bench member of the Labor Party and who is, I presume, a potential Minister - although God help us if Labor ever gets into office - already has stated that Taiwan should be handed back to Mainland China. 
During foreign affairs debates we frequently hear criticism of Cambodia by members of the Labor Party. The honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  said that Cambodia has rejected the parliamentary system. The favourite theme of members opposite is that the South Vietnamese elections are rigged, that they are no longer democratic and that they will no longer support them. But can members opposite tell me when the last democratic election took place in Mainland China? According to them. Communist China is pure - it is an example to the rest of the world to whom we must now give allegiance, bow down, give in and make approaches so that we might live in peace with it. Members opposite cannot tell me when a free election took place in North Vietnam. But all the time they knock what is called by some people the free world. Many of those Labor commentators who now write so independently in the Press say that there does not seem to be any free world. But at least my Party has a consistent policy. That policy may have cracks and it may have flaws, but at least the Government has tried to accept some responsibility. It has tried to stand with our allies, to assist those people who are in need and to show them that Australia is prepared to play its part. 
But what is the Labor Party policy? It believes the United States is no longer crucial to Australia. It was said that Australia should be wooing India and Indonesia. The Government wants Australia to live in good relations with those coustries and to assist them as far as it possibly can, but should it repudiate the United States in respect of the ANZUS treaty and our other defence agreements? India has a policy of neutrality. I attended a conference in England at which the Indian delegate asked: In the event of an attack on India, what would the Commonwealth do?' The majority of the representatives of Commonwealth countries thought that they would answer the call and would be prepared to give assistance. I stood and asked: 'In the event of an attack on Australia, what would the Indian nation do?! The reply that came back to me was: 'Oh, we have a policy of strict neutrality'. 
Let us understand the facts of life. The honourable member for Wills said that there are no direct threats to Australia and I think that is reasonably acceptable at this particular moment. But is the Labor Party and the country forgetful that when Japan entered the Second World War, we were living in security? We woke one morning and heard about the attack on Pearl Harbour on the news. Were we warned of it? Was the United States warned of it? Was John Curtin aware of it? No, he most assuredly was not. Let it be remembered that the Japanese came down through French Indo-China and the South East Asian area to the fringe of Australia within a period of about 2 months. Had it not been for the United States, we may not today be living under conditions which allow us to criticise and knock all our friends and to absolutely adore those countries which have engaged in subversion throughout South East Asia and which have not acted in the best interests of peace in this part of the world. As for the suggestion that the situation in South East Asia is no worse than the situation in Belfast, all I can say is that that is little advertisement for the thinking of the Labor Party at this time. I think the Government has accepted its responsibility. I think it has shown that it is prepared to play a part and I think it should play a greater part The policy of the Labor Party seems to be to repudiate its friends and to crawl in with Mainland China because the sooner we are all Communists the better it will be for the whole world. 
Prior to the personal explanation made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  we listened to the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  tell us about the proposed dental plan of the Australian Labor Party. To interpose, we have just heard the Leader of the Opposition speak about the free Labor galaxy in relation to education. Listening to the honourable member for Kingston and, indeed, to all Labor speakers, not only in respect of health but also repatriation, social services, pay for the Services, assistance to the States, assistance to local government and assistance to State governments - in respect of just about everything - we hear what the Labor Party is going to give the public of Australia. I object to any political party in opposition saying: 'When we become the government we will give you this free'. A headline in a newspaper yesterday or the day before referred to the Labor Party's free dental plan. I think this is just a confidence trick. I am not blaming the Opposition for this, but this is the way it was presented in the newspaper. All of us in this place know, without any doubt at all, that no government gives anyone anything for nothing. There is only one source from which money to pay for such a dental scheme or health scheme etc. can be obtained. Indeed, there is only one source from which money for any of the many promises can be obtained, and that is from the taxpayers of Australia. Therefore, let it be clearly understood, when we heard all these glowing promises from the various members of the Labor Party, that the money to finance these promises must come ultimately from the people. The cost must be added to their taxes. Everyone will be paying to provide all these gifts which are to be given by the Labor Party. 
What is wrong with it? The only thing wrong with it is that the Labor Party has never been able at any time, nor would it be able to do so at this particular time, to cover collectively all its promises. It has never been able to tell the people of Australia what the financing of these promises will take from their pay packets should the Labor Party ever get into government. 
It is all very well to raise the red herring of the Vietnam war. I am not discussing that. If the honourable and distinguished member for the waterfront would just be quiet for a while, he may learn a few points. All I am trying to say, and the honourable member may deny this, is that the Labor Party, if it were in office, would not set up a printing press and churn paper money out through the front door of Parliament House. A Labor government would get the money from the working man, the wage earner, in this country. Someone interjected during the debate today about the great health scheme of the United Kingdom. New Zealand also has a great, free health scheme. But look at the economy of New Zealand; look at the economy of the United Kingdom at this time. This was one of the reasons why the Labour Government in the United Kingdom was thrown out of office. 
The Opposition is expecting to fool the people. It hopes to convince them that it can introduce these measures without economic strain and without affecting their pay packets. Apparently this money is to come from some mythical source. In my opinion the source is non-existent in this country. Australia has a population of about 14 million. The Labor Party has not proposed just one scheme, such as the one that it conveniently put up as a midelection promise in a particular city. It would be interesting to add up the number of promises that have been made over the last 3 years in this House during the consideration of a Bill and a departmental estimate. The Labor Party has moved amendments to Bills and estimates to the effect that in the event of its becoming the government, it will do certain things. But it has never added the cost of each promise to show the Australian people the total cost. 
I wish to speak on 3 matters in relation to the health estimates. I did not speak duing the Budget debate so I shall raise them now. 
No, I was not sick. But every time I am around the honourable member I have a tendency to be so. However, let me say this: Firstly, there is the prescription fee which has now risen from 50c to Si. I have written to the Minister for Health  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  and have raised this matter which concerns people who have a permanent malady. The treatment given to such people seems to me to be very unfair. It is reasonable, perhaps, to levy this increased charge on someone who has an attack of flu or a passing indisposition. Such a person goes to a doctor, who prescribes a medicine, pill or whatever it may be. Because of the increased charge the patient pays a $1 fee. Perhaps this is a reasonable charge in view of the increasing health costs which are being borne, not by the Government, but by the people of Australia. After all, it is the people who are bearing these increased costs. Governments do not give anybody anything free. 
But I believe that a different case exists for people who have a permanent malady. I refer to epileptics and diabetics and other people who have no hope of being cured. Under the present Act such persons are compelled every 2 months or so to obtain a doctor's prescription for which they have to pay a prescribing fee to the chemist. In my opinion this is quite ridiculous. I speak from first hand knowledge as a diabetic. I know that I am not going to be cured, that there is no cure in sight. I have it for life. I have been a diabetic for a considerable period now. But why do I have to go to a doctor so often to get a prescription? For every 36 bottles of insulin which I am now allowed on one prescription under the Act, I have to pay $1 whereas previously I paid 50c. I do not mind paying the increased amount but many diabetics are elderly people who do not have sufficient money to pay the increased fee. They have other expenses. They have to buy syringes and needles. In addition they might have added expenses because of ill health caused by other maladies to which they are susceptible. 
I have requested the Minister for Health to ask the Medical Review Committee to see whether it is possible to allow the number of bottles of insulin obtainable on the present prescription to the doubled - that is, from 36 to 72. In this way people who have permanent maladies will pay the same prescribing fee as before. I hope that the Minister will accept this request. If he does not accept it, I assure him that if someone likes to move an appropriate amendment at some future date I will certainly be voting for it. 
The second matter 1 want to mention was raised earlier by the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart)  and it concerns physiotherapists. I agree emphatically with everything he said. I think the arguments advanced by the Government as to why it does not include payments for services by physiotherapists in its list of benefits is quite farcical. I had a condition in which certain bones in my feet seemed to be going out of conformity. I went to a specialist who was an orthopaedic surgeon. I was told that I should go to a physiotherapist. That is to say, I was sent by a specialist to a physiotherapist. However, I am not entitled to receive a Commonwealth benefit for fees paid to the physiotherapist. As I said, I think that the argument put forward by the Government is ridiculous. It is time the Government got up to date and accepted the fact that most patients are referred to physiotherapists by doctors and that they are referred for very good reasons. 
The third matter I wish to- raise in this respect of post-operative visits. I understand that if a woman has a baby in hospital and then has post-operative visits to the doctor, the fees paid for those visits are not refundable. The excuse given by the hospital benefits associations is that these costs should be included in the operation fee. I know of a man's wife who went into hospital to have an eye operation. She had to go back after a month and again after 2 months, but she was not entitled to a refund of fees because the organisation said that these expenses should have been included in the operation fee. This situation is farcical. I have not known anyone have an operation and not have to return to the doctor for further treatment. This applies whether or not the operation was successful. Therefore, I think it is ridiculous to suggest that because people have to go back for a review of their condition, they should not be eligible for hospital benefits. I suggest that the Government should check the legislation in these 3 respects. Otherwise it may find that it will have a few troops missing on this side of the House. 
Having listened to the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  and having counted the number of times he mentioned our troops about whom this motion is concerned, I believe that his outlook in respect to the whole motion was summed up in the last 3 minutes of his speech when he told us about the glory of the Australian Labor Party, the sacrifice of the Labor Party and how the Labor Party had stood firm against all enemies. Indeed the Australian servicemen who served in Vietnam quite definitely in the outlook of the honourable member for Grayndler, come second to the Austraiian Labor Party. The main thing that seemed to upset the honourable member for Grayndler and the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  was that the motion had been moved in the Senate by a member of the Australian Democratic Labor Party. I can only say that perhaps it is a little premature to move this motion even at this time because there are still approximately 2,500 troops in the Vietnam area. All the troops, of course, have not yet come home. 
I, like the honourable member for Fremantle, would have preferred to have seen this debate take place as a result of a motion by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  at the appropriate time. I would like to have seen the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  also in attendance in this House and I would like to have seen this House full with honourable members from both sides. Neither of those gentleman are here; I admit this. 
It is most interesting at all times to listen to members of the Opposition discussing amendments like the one we are now debating. In the case put forward by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard),  the Opposition's shadow Minister for Defence, he referred to the fact that a seaman on HMAS 'Sydney', which is used for transporting troops to Vietnam, is not entitled to the benefits of the war service homes legislation. The Government has over the years - I think from the commencement of the War Service Homes Act - always had as a requirement for the benefits of this legislation that there should be service in a war theatre. In transporting troops to Vietnam HMAS 'Sydney' does not enter a declared war zone and does not remain within a war zone for the required period of time. 
If the honourable member can restrain himself for a minute he will enable me to express my thoughts. I am sympathetic to the fact that in today's circumstances a serviceman enlists for service anywhere and has no control over where he will serve. I agree with what the Opposition said in this respect and I have made suggestions to the Government. I hope that eventually provision will be made in this legislation whereby such servicemen will receive an entitlement. 
Just a minute. I ask you,  Mr Chairman,  what would you do with a punch drunk gentleman? Does one just keep trying to find time- 
Yes, I accept the assurance. 
I seek some clarification as to exactly what the amendment is that we are discussing. Furthermore I point out (hat in the amendment proposed to the amendment all words after:'"Australian Soldier" means a serving member of the Forces' were to be deleted. Now I am not sure what is to be put in. I wish to make clear what I am prepared to vote for. Let it be most clear that as the Act stands at the moment a regular soldier, sailor or airman serving at this time and who in my opinion could serve for 5 years or 10 years or 15 years - is not entitled to a war service homes loan if his commanding officer or the powers that be have not appointed him to a war theatre. I say that he should be so entitled. But I will not vote for the amendment to insert the words 'serving member of the forces' if by definition that phrase includes a member of the militia who joins tomorrow, or who joined a month ago, and who does one days service a week. I seek a clear interpretation of what 'serving member' means. Does it mean a permanent, regular member of the Army, Navy or Air Force; or does it mean a serving soldier whether his service be part time or full  time? If we are not clear on that point, we are in trouble. 
 I appreciate the charm with which the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  has extended his invitation. The honourable member is well aware of my intention because I rang him at his Sydney office yesterday and advised him. AsI said on Thursday night, the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and the Leader of the House  (Mr Swartz)  had advised me that they were prepared to look at the question of providing home finance for regular servicemen and gave me an assurance that a submission on this subject would be put before Cabinet. I accepted this position. It is a much better approach, in my opinion, to set up a body, if I may coin a name, such as a regular services home loans corporation or finance division than to widen the War Service Homes Act at the present time. As this is a Budget Bill, the latter course would mean that more people would immediately become eligible for the amount of money that has been allocated, and that a waiting list would be created which would adversely affect those present eligible. Therefore, at this stage 1 am prepared to accept the Prime Minister's assurance. I compliment the Government on, and am most grateful to it for, being prepared now to look into this matter. I am confident that eventually there will come forward a scheme which will give aid to regular servicemen and this is my objective. Those assurances should be accepted by the Opposition also. 
A great deal has been gained from the debate last Thursday. If the Opposition wishes to go ahead with this amendment it should be aware that this is a Budget Bill, a set amount of money has been allocated and if we widen the scope of the Bill there will be more people waiting for the same amount of money, and this will create a waiting list. I would not like to do that to those now eligible for war service home loans. Nobody would be desirous of having them wait longer for their money than they must at the present time. For those reasons I am grateful to the Government for its approach to this matter. I am glad to see that democracy is working in the Liberal Party and I accept the assurances that I have been given. 
I do not wish to canvass the point you raised,  Mr Chairman,  or to deal too widely with the comments that have been made, but the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart)  and the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  did use the words 'honour', 'reputation', 'character' and a few others which I think reflected on me and on the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen).  As far as I am concerned I do not, of course, divorce myself from any statements that were read from the Hansard record by the honourable member for Lang. I did make them. T made them on Thursday night under conditions in which there was no assurance from  the  Government and no possibility that 1 could see of getting one, that it was prepared to look at the question of housing loans (or regular servicemen. But 1 do take objection to honourable members on the other side of the House - honourable members who have never stood up or spoken against anything which has been put forward by their caucus, who have never during my period in this House crossed the floor, who have never at any stage taken any independent action on behalf of ex-servicemen - claiming credit and abusing honourable members on this side of the House who perhaps may have occasionally put their positions in jeopardy. If there is one thing that is likely to send members from the Parliament in disgust, it is the parrot cries from members of the Opposition asking other people to do exactly what' they themselves would not do. May 1 make it clear again for the last time that on Thursday night the amendments which the Opposition proposed widen the provisions relating to war service homes loans to such an extent that the situation would become farcical. The honourable member for Wills referred to 300,000 ex-servicemen. If this number of exservicemen were divided into the $60m which has been allocated to this Department in the Budget they would each receive $200. However, that great brain - that brilliant leader of the Australian Labor 
Party in the housing field - seemingly did not take this into account. As I have said, I want a permanent defence service, unlike members of the Opposition who feel that money should be expended on something else. I want to maintain the numbers in the defence forces, not cut them down or cut them out. The amendments would widen the field of those eligible for benefits under the war service homes legislation. The number to be divided into the allocation of $60m would be increased and this would result in delays for those already waiting for loans. 
I should like to state this quite clearly. Members opposite can play politics and say that the Government's word is not worth while. All I am saying is that the honourable member for Moreton and I have received an assurance. This satisfies me for the time being. I have a responsibility to ensure that this matter is discussed further and to see that it is clearly analysed. I am confident that the Government will make provision, not under the War Service Homes Division but, as I said it should be, under a regular services homes division to enable members of the Services to be given cheap home finance. Those members opposite who want to get up like a pack of parrots and accuse people of lack, of courage and principle should adjust themselves in front of a mirror each morning to see that they do not shudder. If any honourable member opposite can show me where at any time he has ever stood out against any decision of his Party, he will then have a right to throw scorn at other people. 
I accept the assurance which has been given. I am confident that something will be done for the regular servicemen. As  Chairman  of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Committee, I am conscious that there is a requirement to do something for them and it should be done. However, now that the Government has offered to give consideration to setting up a scheme - not under the war service homes legislation but a separate scheme for the regular Services - 1 am prepared to accept it and no crocodile tears from the honourable members for Reid  (Mr Uren),  Lang and Wills, those men of violent, great and distinguished courage in this chamber, are likely to get me to change my mind. 
Let it be said and understood that if the amendments which have been put forward are analysed, it will be seen that the number of ex-servicemen to be divided into the $60m which has been allocated to the War Service Homes Division will increase. This amount has been set in the Budget; it cannot be increased. Therefore, if we extend the conditions of eligibility for these benefits, people will be eligible to receive a share of the $60m. This will mean less money per person and, as I said, a greater waiting period for those who are now waiting for war service loans. Let me conclude by suggesting that when it comes to accusations as to other people's valour, those who are making the accusations should adjust their sights and perhaps adjust their standards. 
If I may I would like to ask the Australian Labor Party shadow Minister for Housing a question. As I understand it an amount of S60m has been appropriated in this year's Budget for war service homes. There has been no suggestion that this amount should be increased. Therefore we can accept, as the Budget has been agreed to by this Parliament, that an amount of $60m will be made available for war service homes. If we accept the amendment to increase the loan from $9,000 to $15,000 will it not mean that about 4,000 maximum loans will be available from the $60m?.In other words, by accepting this amendment will we not reduce the number of successful applicants for war service homes loans? 
I am asking a clear question which I would like the Labor Party's leader on housing matters to answer. Is it not a fact that with an allocation of $60m and a loan of $9,000 we can service 6.666 applications for loans? I would like to have a clear answer as to whether this amendment, if accepted, would mean that the number of persons who could receive war service homes loans would be reduced from 6,666 to 4,000. To me this amendment means that the number eligible to receive a loan would be reduced by approximately 2,666. I would like the Opposition clearly to define whether that is the intention of the amendment. At no time has the Opposition moved an amendment to increase the allocation for the War Service Homes Division. I would like clarification on this point before I discuss the matter any further. If this information can be given to me I would be most obliged. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. Further to the statement made by the Leader of the House last Thursday night that a submission would be made to Cabinet on setting up a home finance scheme for members of the regular Services, will the Prime Minister assure me and the House that no undue delay will hold up this matter which has considerable importance for members of the Services? 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I present an interim report of the Joint Select Committee on Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Legislation to inform the House of the progress of the Committee's inquiry to date and to set down the present intentions of the Committee regarding its future programme. I seek leave to make a short statement in connection with the report. 
The Prime Minister, to whom I address my question, will remember that at the end of the last parliamentary session the House was given an assurance that Cabinet would give urgent consideration to the introduction of a home finance scheme for Regular servicemen not eligible for war service homes. Can the Prime Minister advise me of the result of any such submissions? 
It is always a joy to hear the enthusiasm of the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  and to find how selective he and other members of the Opposition are in what they regard as the causes of unemployment. They accuse the Government of raising only the question of wages when discussing inflationary tendencies and the situation which we now confront. However, it is interesting to listen to members of the Opposition. One would not think there had been a strike in this country in the last year. One would be forgiven for thinking that we had lived in complete industrial peace and quiet, that- production was up and that we were able to produce our goods and sell our goods and bring in the income which is necessary for the expansion of business and for the creation of new jobs so that school leavers can go into industries which are prepared to expand. I think it is reasonable to say that members of the Opposition seem to have in their passion - which I claim to be feigned - a degree almost of glee that here they see a situation that they can really ride on until the next election. I do not think that normal people - the electors of this country - necessarily are impressed when members of the Opposition, while admitting that there is a degree of unemployment today, add to that figure another 40,000 and add to it forecasts of gloom and depression so that anybody who may be thinking of having sufficient confidence to expand their industry to create new industries and new jobs will not take that action until after the next election. By this means the Australian Labor Party hopes to gain office. 
It is as well to remember that in 1949, when the Liberal Government took over from a Labor government, unemployment was running at 4 per cent. This was for various reasons - because of the coalminers' strikes and the other strikes with which the Labor Party had been beset. At least then there was an honest Labor Government which was prepared in some circumstances to take action. But have we heard the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  the honourable members for Sturt and Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  or any other members of the Opposition who are so concerned about unemployment ever taking a stand against the political and the wildcat strikes which are taking place in Australia? Are they stupid, or do they not realise, that when a business is put out of action because of strikes, money does not come in, employees are not paid, plans for expansion are set back and costs on overseas markets increase? Strikes prevent the expansion of industry and deny job opportunities to people about whom members of the Opposition, with their crocodile tears, talk. 
Let us consider some of the strikes that have taken place recently. What was the cause of the last strike of the waterfront union, which my distinguished friend from 
Sturt so ably represented? It was a wildcat strike because of the Irish situation. This cost the Australian economy a considerable amount of money. It was not conducted for industrial action and the workers of this country had nothing to gain by the strike. It was called at a moment's notice and businesses and everybody else were affected. I have a few newspaper extracts relating to strikes in the last month from which I should like to quote, in an article from 'The Mercury' of Hobart under the heading 'Victorian Power Strike' it is stated: 
Effects of the Victorian power workers' strike are spreading beyond that State and it is certain that many more thousands of unionists in other States not in the slightest involved in the dispute will be without work unless a settlement is reached . . . 
Did I hear any member of the Labor Party say anything about that strike? It could be claimed that perhaps the Leader of the Labor Party,  Mr Hawke,  might have played some part but were those officially elected by the people prepared to make a stand on behalf of the people in New South Wales in the motor industry who were likely to be thrown out of work? Did I hear the honourable member for Grayndler make any statement on behalf of these people? No,  Sir, not  one bleat. Members opposite know that the higher the unemployment, the more they can confuse the issue and take away the confidence of the business community and others and the greater they can take away the enthusiasm of people who want to invest in this country, the greater will be their chances of success. Indeed, it is only in tragedy that they ever get their opportunity. 1 quote now front an article in 'The West Australian' of 19th February. Under the heading 'Kambalda Ore Shafts Idle' it is stated: 
Underground work at the Western Mining Corporation's 3 nickle shafts at Kambalda has stopped ... A union official declined to say what had caused the strike. 
Of course, the public was not let into that one. The Labor Party was silent and more people were forced out of work. I quote a newspaper article of 2nd February under the headline 'Plunging us into Ireland's woes': 
In another blatantly political strike, the Seamen's Union yesterday brought needless inconvenience to passengers arriving from England in the liner 'Canberra'. 
The ostensible reason for yesterday s budden boycott was that 'many' of the union's Irish members came 'asking us what we were going to do* to protest at the shootings in Londonderry last Sunday. 
There was supposedly unemployment. Supposedly, young people were not able to obtain jobs. But the unions had decided to strike. What did the Australian Labor Party do? lt did nothing. Here is a quotation from a newspaper of 11th February 1972 under the headline 'Union row may cost 900 jobs': 
A union demarcation dispute involving 15 men could cost 900 others their jobs at the Lysaght's Westernport steelworks. The dispute began in September last year when plumbers objected to metal trades workers- installing large pipes. 
Here was a strike where 900 people could have been thrown out of work. Did the honourable member for Grayndler say anything about that? 1 have no doubt that he will get up with his wit and Irish charm shortly and treat us to repartee which will be second only to that of Liberace. But did he ever say anything on behalf of those thrown out of work? A newspaper article of 7th February 1972 stated: 
The director of information of the Victorian Chamber of Manufactures,  Mr John  Stephens, said thai industry's lost production bill hit the $20m mark today. 
Has anybody from the Labor Party said anything about this? Indeed, did anybody say that if this money is lost to industry it has less opportunity of expanding, putting people into business and giving them jobs? Are honourable members opposite delighted about that? Do they think that industry can take these losses, still pay the extra wages and meet the cost of non production when unions call wild cat strikes? An article of 41 h February 1972, under the headline '589,800 days lost in disputes' stated: 
Working days lost through industrial disputes in Victoria last year jumped bv 28.9 per cent on 1970 figures. 
Do we hear anything about that from the Opposition? Do we hear the Leader of the Opposition, that wizard at quoting inaccurate figures, state anything in respect to these figures? Ls he concerned? Does he wonder or worry about the hours lost and what this costs the nation? Does he realise that this nation has to compete with other nations in competitive markets in the world? Does he realise that businesses have to compete, one with the other, to gain the money to pay the employees and to give them the advantages they want? Does any member of the Opposition realise that if costs rise time and time again without reason the worker will force himself out of a job because in the end the employer will not be prepared to go on? He is not encouraged to make any expansion. In my opinion, one of the things that has happened in Victoria after the recent State Electricity Commission power strike is that when factories were closed down, not because the employees were members of the union but because the blackout of industry, many employers decided that they would take the opportunity to get rid of those employees who had not been very efficient. The employers decided that they could work more effectively with fewer employees. This is something that the worker of today should consider. I am not saying for a minute that all the faults are on one side. There are faults in the employer organisations; there are faults on both sides. But do not let us hear all the time honourable members of the Opposition saying that the faults are only in one area. I will continue with my quotations. A newspaper article of 4th February 1972 stated:  150,000 put out of work. SEC dispute hits industry. 
An article of 5th February 1972 stated: 
Ban on phones is off. 
In New South Wales, telephones were put out of operation. Business houses could not get their telephones repaired. They were not able to operate. They were not able to make money, pay employees, put on new employees or expand. Does the Australian Labor Party think this has no effect on the prosperity and economy of this country? Or is it only too delighted to see these things happen? Has it made a deal with  Mr Hawke,  the  president  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions? Is this part of the tactics of 1972 to bring about an election victory and to bring about hardship to the people of this country? A newspaper article of 25th January 1972 stated: 
Wharfies plan wild cat strikes. Sydney faces a series of wild cat waterfront strikes which could spread to all major ports. 
On 18 th February 1972 it is stated: 
Car men plan action strikes. 
A newspaper of 8th February 1972 stated: 
Home ga5 converters on strike. 
Another newspaper on 8th February 1972 stated: 
WWF strike warning. 
On 3rd February it is stated: 
Port clerks may strike 
Anybody listening to honourable members opposite speaking in this debate would think that there were no problems in the industrial area, that the Labor Party was satisfied with the industrial field and that it was satisfied that industry could continue under the conditions of wild cat strikes held throughout the year with or without the condonation of the various unions. That is a false dream and there must be change in the outlook on the part of employers and employees in this country if we are to have a wonderful country. We will not be able to satisfy the needs of the workers unless there is increased productivity. This cannot be brought about by political action or by trying to gain kudos and advantage to elect a government which is more likely, if it were elected, to be controlled by the trade union movement and the radical wing of it than it is by the Parliament. Let me cite the situation in respect of employment. There is no doubt that pockets of unemployment exist in specific industries in this country. There is no doubt that action has to be taken to rectify that. The Government has increased unemployment benefits paid each week, and I support that. But if one travels in various areas and talks to people in business, one finds some amazing things. If one were to go to the seaside resorts and surf beaches to see those riding on surf boards during the school and university holidays, one would find that most of those people had registered for unemployment in the nearest township and were reporting once a week. I was at a meeting last week in Lilydale at which a timber manufacturer and I were talking about unemployment. He said: '1 had somebody sent over from the Ringwood employment office. I wanted somebody. I got in touch with the office. A person arrived. I said: "Can you handle a cutting machine?" He said: "Oh, yes, boss, I can handle it but you would not want me". He said: "If you do not want that, can you stack timber?" He said: "Oh, yes, boss, but you would not want me".' In whatever the employer offered, the retort was 'You would not want me". That person returns to the employment office and says that the employer did not want him and collects another week's unemployment benefit. I know of a timber factory in Abbotsford where 2 advertisements were placed in a newspaper purely for hands to be employed in the factory. No skill was required at all. In this case there were 12 replies to the advertisements. I asked the employer what sort of people applied. He said that they were not very good but that he put on two men. He said to both of them, having interviewed them at about 5 o'clock: 'If you change your mind and do not want the job will you ring me before the morning so I can give the jobs to two other people'. They said: 'Boss, we certainly will'. At 9 o'clock next morning they did not even bother to turn up. This is a situation which I think exists in certain areas at the moment. We know that contained in the figures that have been announced there are a certain number of people who are disabled, who are fringe cases as to whether they should receive an invalid pension or unemployment benefits. Admittedly, these people represent quite a high percentage of unemployed. Also included in this bracket are a large number of married women. These women have had jobs and should be entitled to have jobs. But I do not suggest, and I do not think it can be suggested, that overall these women are the breadwinners of Australia. I would like all employers, employees, the Opposition and the Government to recognise that we have a problem, ft can be overcome. But it will be overcome only while both sides are prepared to act for the betterment of the country and not for individual gain. How can anyone argue that strikes do not mean loss to the economy or cause those who may wish to start a business to lose confidence? How can we argue that the 35-hour week will reduce the cost of the goods we produce and sell on competitive overseas markets? Are we going to say: 'All right, we are going to have a 35-hour week and the cost of it must be passed on. It does not matter whether people buy our goods or not because the great Socialist state will not earn money, it will merely print it"? Th':se are things that the people of Australia should be thinking about at present 
Members of the Australian Labor Party more distinguished than those who are here now have had something to say about this subject. A former member for Parkes stated in this House that a level of unemployment of 5 per cent was considered to be a condition of full employment. The Government does not accept that. The Government does have a record of full employment. The Government wishes to continue that record of full employment. But it will not be able to do so while those on the other side of the House, in conjunction with others, are making political capital and encouraging political strikes which can only bring hardship to innocent people and the economy to ruin and chaos. The only people who will gain eventually will not be the members of the Labor Party but those who, in my opinion in certain areas, may be wishing them well. 
I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs representing the Attorney-General a question and I apologise for introducing politics. In view of the Leader of the Opposition's statement that draft dodging is not a crime and so that the ordinary people of this country may clearly under.stant that there are different laws for "the people and for members of the Australian Labor Party, will the Attorney-General see that in future all legislation is drawn up excluding Labor Party members if they do not wish to observe those laws and stressing that, however, all ordinary citizens must conform? Does the Minister consider that democracy can be retained if members of political parties are excluded from observing the laws of the land and such action is publicly supported by the alternative Prime Minister of this country, however inadequate he may be? 
 I do not necessarily want to buy into the argument put forward by the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster),  but frankly I think it is possibly one of the lowest that I have heard. I think he was perhaps unaware of what he was saying. I do not necessarily carry a torch for the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  or anybody else in this House, but what the honourable member has read out of his Parliamentary Handbook says nothing dishonourable about the Prime Minister. It seems to be the coming thing of the Australian Labor Party, today to cast scorn on every matter it can. Everybody knows that the Prime Minister before a certain operation suffered from considerable deafness and perhaps there were reasons for serving as he did. 
I admit that the honourable member for Sturt has a very gallant war record. Fair enough. 1 do not think anybody takes that away from him. We know that he and some hundreds of thousands of others were in the Middle East. But if he wants to play this game as hard as he appears to want to play it, let us have a look at some other records in the Handbook in close detail to find out exactly who was where, at what time, and why. I think he may find a little less than unanimous support on his side of the House. Perhaps matters listed in the Parliamentary Handbook should be checked. An honourable member is asked what his war service was, and he may say that he was in the Citizen Military Force or the Australian Imperial Force. Many people were in certain fields because of health or for other reasons. Because the honourable member for Sturt was one of those who went overseas and served and rose to the rank of corporal, this does not mean that other people who tried to get away, who did everything possible to get away but were unable to get away because of some disability, are not equally as courageous as he. 
If there is anything 1 am fed up with it is a braying ass that comes into this House and on every possible occasion suggests that he is the only one who made any sacrifice during the war and has the temerity to pour scorn on other people who perhaps tried equally as hard, did not succeed, but still served their country honourably. I think it is despicable for the honourable member to take this point. As I said, if he wants to proceed with it I am quite happy to go through the Parliamentary Handbook and list a few other records of honourable members on his side of the House who talk about war and about people on this side of the House who are younger than the honourable member for Sturt and I, and ask them why they did not do certain things. I can assure the honourable member that there would be members on his side who would not be happy if this sort of conduct was continued. 
I had not intended to speak in this debate but I was very interested indeed when the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Sherry)  moved the amendment to insert section 124aa. The case he put was very strong, lt  was  cheering to find that the PostmasterGeneral  (Sir Alan Hulme)  also expressed  great  sympathy with the intention of the Opposition's amendment. I listened to the Postmaster-General when he said that he had been in touch with the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Greenwood)  of the Commonwealth in relation to the problems involved in getting any decision in respect of this matter. 1 would suggest to the Postmaster-General, whilst having the greatest sympathy for him, that there seems to have been an incredible delay in making a decision on a matter that should not confound the great law machine of the Commonwealth. I feel that there is a point here. The ordinary person, whether he is somebody in the public arena or a private individual, who is maligned, he thinks, on television or radio, as the Postmaster-General said, frequently hears it only on second hand information. 
How many of us in this chamber have heard that somebody on a radio programme said something about us? We then go around and check with our friends and try to find out whether they heard the programme. 
By the end of a day or so we have received a most garbled version of what it was. We have no possibility of taking the matter to a solicitor to start with because we frankly do not know what was said. The Postmaster-General made the point that perhaps it is necessary to know how the State courts would regard such a recording. I am not completely convinced that we should know that. I think that in the first instance a person - it does not matter who he is in the community - should be entitled to know what some television station or radio station flashes through its network all over the country without giving notice or information to the person of what it has said or what it intends to say. That seems lo me to be the right of people. Nothing that the PostmasterGeneral has said takes away from me the belief that people have the initial right to find out what has been said about them. 
The Postmaster-General said that it was necessary to make an application for a court order. The ordinary little person in this community is horrified and terrified by obtaining a court order. The majority of people would not know how to go about it. The Postmaster-General then went further and said that it is necessary in certain areas to engage a barrister to appear in order to obtain such a court order. This may involve a cost in the vicinity of $500. Clearly what the Opposition is asking is that under the Broadcasting and Television Act - let it be only as it refers to the Commonwealth area if you like - people should be. entitled as a matter of right, on the payment of a fee - because of necessity there must be some cost - to receive a record of any such programme. I think this principle is basic and should be in any Act. As far as 1 am concerned the PostmasterGeneral and the Government should insist that some clear cut decision be made in a very much lesser time than has elapsed up to date. I think the delay in making a decision is a reflection on the Commonwealth. I think the amendment is a good one and that the Government should accept it. 
It is always interesting to follow the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  in  debate, although it must be confusing to any honourable member to try to follow a statement such as he has just made without having it in print before him and without being able to analyse the points he made. The honourable member for Oxley said that it would be quite easy to achieve a bipartisan policy between the Opposition and the Government with respect to medical services, but I do not think anybody is yet completely clear about what is the Labor Party's policy in respect of medical services. Nobody knows the opinion of the secretive Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  Nobody knows what he or his government would do in the circumstances confronting the Government at this time. All that T have been able to find is an article which appeared I think in the Daily Telegraph* and in which he said that he would negotiate with doctors. 
The honourable member for Oxley used the words - I wrote them down - 'consultation' and 'arbitration'. Admittedly some doctors in New South Wales are causing problems. We have appointed a judge to inquire into these and we will await his recommendations. When we get those recommendations, that will be the time to see what the Government's actions are. The Opposition does not state its policies clearly. It merely creates, and it wishes to create, a state of confusion. It has a socalled policy on every matter. We heard the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  speak earlier. I do not know what he was really talking about but when I came into the chamber he was talking about old contraceptives. This obviously comes within a Labor Party policy somewhere because it has one to meet every eventuality. God help the people if it ever comes into office. 
When one looks through its policies one finds that it has a policy on drugs, homosexuality, repatriation, war service homes for all, home loans, interest subsidy for all, schools for all, free universities, national superannuation for all, a volunteer army, free hospitals, a 35-hour week, 4 . weeks holiday, a medical scheme, a pensioner scheme, decentralisation,. urban affairs, and more money for all. If the people are fooled into thinking that a Labor government could do all these things the Opposition keeps braying about without being asked to pay for them and if the people believe they will have more money in their pockets, they had better re-think. At the present moment we are going through the big offering period when the Opposition is saying: 'If you want it we will give it to you'. But as was revealed yesterday by the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in respect of the education grants given to the States, the Labor Party where it has control of government has spent the least on education of any of the States. There is a big difference between being in opposition and being in government. One can kick an economy and a country down in relation to the stability of the government and the best interests of the people much quicker than one can build them up. I would suggest that when people look at the propaganda and promises made at this moment they should also look at what happened in the United Kingdom and in New Zealand and ask themselves whether these golden eggs which are being laid at all times with no responsibility being taken by the Labor Party can in fact be produced without great hardship and detriment to this country. 
The point I wish to raise in this grievance debate was brought to my mind this morning by the question which was asked by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard).  He asked whether the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  or the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  had seen a report, supposedly made somewhere in Malaysia, of a statement made by the  Chairman  of the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. Obviously when any Press report suits the Opposition it is regarded as verbatim by it and accepted without any criticism. When anything is said in the Press which may be to its detriment, of course, the report is incorrect. The questions I ask are: Where is the Press in this country heading and what is the outlook within the Press for responsibility and principle? Three incidents have arisen within the last 3 or 4 days to which I think the Government, the Parliament and the people should pay some attention and I make passing reference to them now. Firstly, there was a report printed in one of the Sunday newspapers about  Mr Kibel  making a statement that if all the facts of the China negotiation, so-called, were revealed the Government would have to resign. This was given great headlines in this particular newspaper. It was taken by the public to be a verbatim report of the statement. It was printed with no qualification. Yet yesterday the Minister for Foreign Affairs staled that  Mr Kibel  had telephoned and denied having made any such statement whatsoever. But, of course, the Opposition will use this for political advantage. Perhaps that is acceptable. What control is there over this sort of thing happening? How can newspapers be asked to accept some responsibility? How can we assure the people that they are being told the truth? 
The second incident related to Evonne Goolagond going to South Africa. There were headlines in the newspapers that she was not going to South Africa because she, being an Aborigine, would be asked to wear an 'Honorary White' badge. There were deep headlines in the newspapers and everybody was resentful. Naturally everybody on her behalf was hostile. But then it was revealed that her manager,  Mr Edwards,  stated that this report was absolute rubbish and that neither he nor Miss Goolagong had ever made such a statement. He said: 
This is a lot of mischievous nonsense about honorary white citizenship. 
This incorrect report was conveyed throughout the country; a denial is never in the same sized print. Any denial or contradiction is never made with the same force. This is the situation which I think the Australian people should be confronted with at the present time not only in respect to such matters as these but also in respect to political issues. The third incident concerns the issue of family unit tax which was raised by the honourable member for Prospect. The Opposition is riding this matter as though it were a charger. It does not matter that the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  made a statement, a copy of which is there for all to see. It is obvious from reading the transcript that what he said was that this is an example of how both sides of the question could be looked at and something which was appealing could create hardship for people. The report pervaded the Press in large headlines because some reporter, somebody anyway, after about 10 minutes study has made either an intentional or unintentional mistake which has embarrassed the Treasurer and the Government. 
I think it is wrong. The Government or the Parliament or the people in this country should endeavour to see that there is a code of ethics, a code of principles and a code of responsibility set up for the newspapers, television and public media generally. I say this in respect of both sides of the House because one can get a headline about a man, a government, a party or whatever it may be, too freely today and when one reads the small print one finds that what the headline is endeavouring to portray is not always so. It is a dangerous situation and it is not good for the country. I think the Press in this country would like to dominate government, of whatever type it may be, and if this country and the people in it do not make some stand for a code of ethics and an observance of principles then this country is in for a very dangerous period. When a newspaper does make a mistake, intentionally or unintentionally, when it libels somebody and when it misreports somebody it should have the responsibility to print a contradiction in the same sized type as and on the same page as the mistake was originally made. I said this the other day in relation to television. I said that little people must have rights and must be protected against the great combines and the great monopolies which do exist, in my opinion, in television and the Press in this country. 
1 desire to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs a question. Having been in Singapore last Friday and observed headlines given in local newspapers to the support of the honourable member for Lalor for the communist forces in Vietnam and their major attack on South Vietnam, and in view of the further support given by the ALP in Victoria to the communist forces, I ask whether the Minister has made contact with our allies in this area, pointing out that these are not the views of the Government or the people of Australia? If not, one could not blame our allies for feeling that Australia's bona fides in defence agreements were suspect. 
This has been a most interesting debate and one of the most interesting things about it is the game of tactics that has been played throughout the whole day. Firstly, this morning the Opposition moved a motion in respect of what it called racial prejudice within Australia. I question whether in fact honourable members opposite truly believe that this exists. Most of their speeches were prepared speeches. Most of their speeches were given to the newspapers and they know that the newspapers being what they are will give them maximum coverage in this country tonight. The second point which I think is of interest is to note what was said by the speakers who have taken part in this debate on the defence statement this afternoon. I cannot disagree with the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross).  I believe he is an honourable and truthful man. He was one of those who spoke on this matter when he came back from Vietnam and he told us the situation which existed there but whether his views were able to be explained is another matter. The same refers to the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  who, when he came back from Cambodia, said that nobody listened to what he had to say. Do not let him imply that nobody on this side listened. Nobody on the other side - the Labor Party side - listened to him. We remember the actions that were alleged to have been taken in an endeavour to silence the honourable member. 
The honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  is to follow me in this debate. Again he is an honourable man and I draw his attention and the attention of the House to a lecture that he gave on Labor ideology and the significance of the so-called similarity between Communist Party policy in Vietnam and the policy of the Labor Party at that time. It will be interesting to hear what he has to say today. One of the interesting things to which the honourable member for Wills referred was that he does not believe in killing. He said that you must not take one side or the other. But the honourable member has never been able to supply an answer to what can be done when the other side insists on killing. What do you do when the other side will not be stopped by political discussion? Has he forgotten the attempts of Hugh Gaitskell the former British Labour Party leader; the attempts by Walker of the British Labour Party and by Wilson, the Leader of the British Labour Party to endeavour to bring about peace negotiations? Does the honourable member for Wills not know that many members on his side have recently been in the Soviet Union and are continuing to go to the Soviet Union? Are they to speak in this debate about the great influence that they had in the Soviet Union? The Opposition's attack is one of hypocrisy and the tactics used today have been to create a smoke screen to confuse the Australian people as to the true situation. 
I have just returned to Australia from abroad. I attend an Inter-Parliamentary Union conference in the Cameroons, which was formerly French Equatorial Africa. I was there when the North Vietnamese started their attack on the South Vietnamese and I saw the reaction of the small nations of Africa and the Asian nations in regard to what was taking place in Vietnam and whether these nations were committed or uncommitted or whether they were trying to play both sides or not. The concern that was in the minds of these nations was obvious when the bulletin appeared on the notice boards. They were concerned that the North Vietnamese, with the support of the Soviet Union and with sophisticated weaponry, were moving throughout South Vietnam in an endeavour to take the provincial cities. 
One could see that each and every one of these nations had realised that here was another small nation which was likely to be knocked off, to lose its freedom, by the might of aggression about which the honourable member for Wills talks on the one hand but on the other can give no solution as to how it is to be prevented. Is there not in Australia some conscience about what is happening in South Vietnam and what could happen? The Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  rightly said that we support South Vietnam. We did send troops to Vietnam. We did withdraw them, and I am not sure that I agree fully that the timing of the withdrawal was correct. Frankly, I believe that the decision to withdraw our troops from Vietnam was a political one; it certainly was not a military one. 
There is no doubt that talks have continued and are supposedly continuing in Paris in an endeavour to obtain a political settlement to the war in Vietnam. But up to the present time not one worthwhile advance has been made because of the stubbornness not of the South Vietnamese or of the United States, but of the North Vietnamese and those who support them. Does anybody in Australia care about what was the reaction in Singapore last week when the conference of the Association of South East Asian Nations was taking place; when those nations which are still on the list - each one of them has in some way been subverted from within - got together to review the situation in South East Asia and in Asia? It may be of interest if I read from an article in the Press about what was said at that conference, because nothing has been said about it in this House. Let me read it and ask whether we in Australia should be concerned or not. The article in the 'Herald' of 14th April 1972, under the heading Vietnam Moves Over Asia Talks', states: 
No country in Asia, perhaps not even China, could accept the arrival of a unified Vietnam with much inward calm. 
Historically, the Vietnamese and their forebears have been troublemakers in the region. 
A united Vietnam would have one of the most powerful armies on earth, certainly the one most hardened in combat. 
The Chinese Army has not fought a real war for decades. 
Nor have the Indonesians, the Malaysians, the Filipinos. 
Singapore has never been tested. 
Put that way, can we in Australia observe what is happening in South Vietnam without having some concern about our own defence? I hope the Australian people who are presently listening to the broadcast of these proceedings realise that this is one of the most important issues confronting Australia. There may be important issues such as education, hospitals and social services, but the most basic important issue which every man, woman and child who has any concern for Australia has to consider  is  where do we go in the future? 
What is the purpose of the Communists? Today I heard the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  probably for the first time in his life admit that the Communists are involved in South Vietnam. What is their purpose? It is the same tactic and technique - divide and conquer; break South Vietnam away from the alliance; move away one edge of the alliance and isolate it. This is what is taking place with the small nations in the international forums of the world today, and this is realised by Malaysia, Singapore, the Philippines and Thailand. It is a good thing to get out of Australia for a while, observe this country from afar and suddenly, perhaps with a clearer mind, to question what is taking place in Australia. I arrived in Singapore on the Friday. What were the headlines in the Press in Singapore? They were that a leading member of the Labor Party shadow Ministry had come out clearly in support of the aggression in South Vietnam by the North Vietnamese Communist forces. When I returned to Australia I found that a powerful section of the Labor Party had voted in support of the Communist forces of North Vietnam. 
I am not saying that this policy has the approval of the honourable member for Wills or the honourable member for Brisbane, but where in this debate are the honourable member for Lalor, the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  and the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)?  This is one matter upon which the Australian people have got to make up their minds. We know that a Federal election is to be held this year. There may be problems in Australia and there may be criticisms of the Australian Government at the present time. But the important decision which the Australian people have to make is: Is the Labor Party genuine in its policy in respect of Vietnam and its opposition to Communism? If a guess is made, and it is wrong, after the election it will be too late for the people to say that they did not know. If the statements of the Leader of the Opposition are only to cover over the facade until after the election, if the statements of  Mr Ken  Carr, who, on behalf of the 26 revel unions in Victoria spoke to the motion on Vietnam moved by the Victorian Branch of the Australian Labor Party, are correct, that every true Socialist in the Labor Party supports the National Liberation Front and wants the Communists to win in Vietnam - if these are the true outlooks of the Australian Labor Party - after the election it will be too late for the Australian people to say that they did not know. 
What credibility can Lee Kuan Yew of Singapore, or Malaysia, or New Zealand or any of those countries with which we have alliances - the United States of America, if you like - place on Australia's future defence policy when all the time the alternative government of Australia - perhaps only a powerful section of it, or the whole of it - is prepared to repudiate our alliance with the United States, to attack the United States and to give succour to the Communist forces in Vietnam? There is no doubt that the threats facing the world have now moved to Asia and to South East Asia. The game is being played in this arena. This is something in which the Australian people have every right to be interested and they have every right to be disgusted with the Labor Party and its politics. But the end decision which the Australian people have to make in respect of themselves, their children and the future of Australia is: Can they place reliance on and trust in the Labor Party when it talks about defence alliances and Communism? 
I will be most interested to hear what the honourable member for Fremantle will say on this question because I believe that he is an honest, true and good Australian. He has frequently been vilified by his own Party, but I would put my future and the future of my children in his hands. I, and I am sure others whom the honourable member for Fremantle has influenced in the past, will listen with great interest to what he says today. We will be interested to hear how he explains what is happening in South Vietnam and how he sees the future of Australia should it ever come about that the Labor Party becomes the Government. 
I desire to ask the Minister for Education and Science a question. Would the Minister advise the House whether the University of Sydney is co-operating in respect of inquiries concerning an attack on Commonwealth Police and the forceful release of draft resister Matteson? 
I hate to introduce any mundane matter into a debate that has been on such a high plane as was the debate this morning in respect of the price of beer and also in respect of problems in electorates, but I do feel that it is time that somebody spoke to this nation. Whether it is worth while speaking to this Parliament I am not sure because I am certain that members of the Press have already been given typewritten copies of the speeches made in this House, particularly in respect of the price of beer, and that the Press will give national cover age to this subject tomorrow. But I am particularly interested - I think the country should also be particularly interested - in an incident which happened this morning in this House and last night in the Senate. I refer to the attack on the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  - I carry no cross for him - for having associated or met with so-called members of a university who are so-called right wing. I think that this country should make up its mind whether it is now a criminal offence in Australia for anybody to gather together with those who are opposed to the communist forces. Let me quote an article which appeared in the Melbourne 'Age' of 17th April and in which  Dr Jim  Cairns, the honourable member for Lalor, said to a meeting of the Jewish Radical Movement- 
Here it comes. 
No, I am not finished. 
I am hesitant, as I said in my speech during the grievance debate this morning, to bring in such mundane matters as defence and the security of the country when more gripping problems are confronting us. Much time is devoted in this House to the very important problems of rural industry, but we seem to get only 3 speakers from each side in debates on defence and other matters which are of vital concern to this country. 1 wish to take up, as I tried to do this morning, the remarks which were made by the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  on the question of the association of the Minister for Housing  (Mr 
Kevin Cairns) with certain persons who have been named. I say publicly that they are very honourable members and distinguished professors of universities who are not popular with the Labor Party outlook of the Left. As I tried to indicate this morning, this matter was raised first by the honourable member for Lalor - I will quote the Melbourne 'Age' of 17th April in this respect - well before it was raised in the Senate last night by  Senator Murphy.  This article in the 'Age' is headed: 'Group aims at youth: Cairns'. The article states in part: 
The group's purpose was to devise ways of influencing the minds of young people in secondary schools and universities to make them antiCommunist. 
It appears by the performance of the Australian Labor Party and by the association of many members of that Party with those of the Communist Party that this is now an offence within Australia. I always believed that Australians felt that they were of the free nations and that their defence alliances were with the free nations and that this was something that should be regarded highly. I feel that it is regarded highly by the Australian people. To be anti-Communist in Australia is not a crime. But it does to me appear to be suggested by the honourable member for Sturt, by  Senator Murphy  and by the honourable member for Lalor, as quoted in this article, to be an offence for any man in this Parliament to deal with any organisation that may be prepared to take some action against those of the Left and against Communist infiltrators and subverted in this country in order to do something to protect our children in our schools and universities. 
We have recently seen a moratorium campaign. We have recently heard statements by the honourable member for Lalor on television in respect to the breaking of the American alliance and in support of the North Vietnamese and for the Communist cause. The Communist newspaper Tribune' of 11th April 1972 sets out the objectives of the moratorium which the honourable member for Lalor and, I presume, the Australian Labor Party support. The objectives of the moratorium are to oppose the United States and allied aggression in Indo-China; to oppose United States domination of Australia and to demand an end to the United States-Australia alliance. All I can say is that I would think that any self respecting Australian who heard the statement to the House this morning by the Minister for Housing would agree with him that he had a perfect right as indeed has anybody who has a concern about the inroads that are being made into Australia by Communists and Communist sympathisers, to take action and to discuss with people so interested the need to do something about what is happening in this country. A country goes rotten from within just as an apple does. In my opinion, this is exactly what is happening, with some help from the other side of the House. 
What I wanted to raise, and what I have not heard any comment on from the Australian Labor Party, any member of the Labor Party, or the honourable member for Lalor, the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  or the gallant leader of the Labor Party in another place, is the organisation which is being set tip to disrupt the South East Asia Treaty Organisation conference which is to take place in Canberra on 27th and 28th June. Do not tell me that they do not know about it because a letter headed 'SEATO Demonstration' was sent out, firstly, on 6th April 1971. It reads: 
The Radical Action Movement, ' after preliminary discussions with local ' activists, has decided to call for a massive demonstration in opposition to the SEATO Council meeting in Canberra. 
The letter goes on to state that this body has approached all like thinking organisations which I would think could not but include the moratorium and the Australia and New Zealand Peace Conference' that so many of our gallant colleagues on the other side support. It will, be interesting to ascertain whether the honourable member for Lalor or the Leader of the Opposition is prepared to make any statement about this demonstration, which is for one purpose only, and that is to disrupt our present alliances. 
It may well be said of members of the Labor Party, as they frequently say it, that SEATO is a paper tiger. It may also be of interest to realise that the Thais are still most interested in SEATO. I see that the distinguished diplomat, the honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison),  has entered the chamber. It may be of interest to realise that the United States is sending its Foreign Secretary to the SEATO conference, that the United Kingdom is sending  Sir Alexander  Douglas-Home to the SEATO conference and that the other diplomats who will be attending this conference will be, I think, on a slightly higher strata than the former distinguished diplomat who now graces the Labor Party. 
What is the communist policy? It is the same as any military objective, and that is, not to attack the main force but to break off a fragment and annihilate it. That is exactly what the Communist Party is trying to do. That is exactly what the honourable member for Lalor seems to be trying to do, advertently or inadvertently - to break the American alliance. It also seems to be exactly what the Labor Party is supporting at this time, and there is no doubt that this is what this organisation is planning to do in June when the SEATO powers come to Australia for their conference. Again I ask, as I asked last week: What confidence can Malaysia or Singapore or Thailand have in Australia's word when they see such a demonstration planned and when they see members of the Labor Party, if not giving the demonstration active support - because perhaps they may not have the courage to come out openly and do so - not saying one word in condemnation of the demonstration? I am beginning to doubt whether it is worth saying anything in this Parliament, but I think it is time that the Australian people as a whole began to face the situation which is arising in this country, where it is wrong - and it is admitted by the Opposition that it considers it is wrong - to work or talk or converse with anybody who is in favour of working against communism in this country, although it is perfectly okay for members of the Labor Party, at moratoriums or demonstrations about matters concerned with Vietnam or with the American alliance, to associate with communists and to march in the street under communist flags. This nation will have to make that choice. 
I would suggest to the honourable and distinguished members of the Press that perhaps the newspapers will be full of the speech made by the honourable member this morning on the price of beer. No doubt they will be full of the speech made by the honourable member in relation to the textile industry, which I support. But I think it is time that the Australian people realised and questioned what is happening under their own noses at the present time. I think it is time that the Australian people began to look at what is happening in this country and what is being condoned by the Labor Party and those who claim to be acting on behalf of the interests of the Australian people. 
In asking my question of the Minister for the Interior I assure him that 1 personally have no doubts as to the importance of backbench members of Parliament relative to ministerial typists and other staff. I ask: Is the Minister aw.ire that backbench members of Parliament on arrival at Canberra airport this morning could not be provided with transport to Parliament House to attend important meetings until ministerial secretaries and typists had been so transported? Will the Minister please advise me or the House of the reason for this confusion and endeavour to see that it is not repeated? 
I ask the Postmaster-General a question. He will remember that when the Broadcasting and Television Bill was debated in the House a few months ago the honourable member for Franklin raised the question of making available tapes of television programmes when people considered that they may have been slandered. This proposal was supported by myself. The PostmasterGeneral said that an urgent decision would be made by his Department in respect of this matter. Can he tell me what progress has been made? 
I am sure that the electorate of Burke is impassioned by the speech which has just been delivered, but I think that the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  underestimates the intelligence of the members of his electorate. If he believes what he has just said, when he talked about the 9 million people and about the 4.5 million people he would realise that they are the public interest about which we are talking. The honourable members remarks sounded incredible to me. The honourable member made a lot of verbiage flow. He talked about  Sir Frank  Packer, the capitalists and everything else, but what else is the Government trying to protect except the 4.5 million workers, of whatever class they may be, and the 9 million people, of whatever class they may be. This debate has become a complete farce to listen to, because one hears a parrot cry from honourable members on the other side of the House, as if they had been wound up. 
Honourable members opposite are not talking to the Parliament; they are talking to Joe and Bob at the Australian Council of Trade Unions. They are saying, in effect: 'I am here Bob. I am putting it out. Look, the verbiage is flowing'. 
However, let us refer back to the dispute which occurred recently in the Victorian State Electricity Commission. This has been referred to already. Was it regarded by the honourable member's supporters in Burke as being in the public interest that, by the stupidity of one section of industry, they were put out of business and out of employment, and that they had their industries closed down because they could not operate. Was that considered to be in the public interest? I must admit that the honourable member's voice was strangely silent at that time. 
Is it considered to be in the public interest if some stupid arrangement is manipulated for the advantage of only one section of the community, with perhaps a selfish employer who is prepared to take advantage of the situation for his own good but to the detriment of the country and of other people in other industries? Is that in the public interest? Is that not what we are discussing now? Anyone who listened last night to what the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  said the Labor Party, if it ever gets into power, will do in the public interest, and considers that in association with what the Labor Party regards as being in the public interest, would say that it gives the public and the workers of this country room for a great deal of thought. It is fine for honourable members opposite to stand up in this chamber and whip off the verbiage. The honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  talked about price freezing. We heard that lugubrious voice going forth to the workers who are throbbing in their homes listening to the great Labor leaders who have led them so gloriously over the last 20 years. Frankly, if the Labor Party does not know what is in the public interest it ought to sort itself out with those whom it claims to represent. 
In conclusion, I agree with the point that the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  has just made. But before dealing with that point, let me say one other thing about the speech made by the honourable member for Burke. Nowhere is it provided in the Conciliation and Arbitration Act that the Government can walk into a court and demand or insist that a decision be made in the public interest. The court has to decide that. What the Opposition is saying is that the Government just tells the court that something is in the public interest or the Government decides that it shall be so. That is absolute rubbish. Recently we saw the Government make an appeal to the court which was rejected. If the court feels that a matter does not involve the public interest, it has a perfect right to say so. 
The honourable member for Moreton said that a conciliation commissioner could decide, on what he is told by the 2 parties - the union and the employer - that a matter is not of any interest to the public, and other factors may not be considered. I agree with the honourable member that this matter should be examined. I will wait for the Minister to give an explanation concerning it. The matter may well have been covered; there may well be a point that we have not taken into account. But I trust that the Minister has an explanation which will be satisfactory to the honourable member for Moreton, because it appears to me that there is little occasion to waste an explanation on the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  and the honourable member for Burke because so far they have not understood what one clause of the Bill means. 
On behalf of the Joint Select Committee on Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Legislation I bring up the report of the Committee together with minutes of the proceedings. I ask for leave of the House to make a short statement in connection with the report. 
I ask the Minister for Defence a question. He will be aware that the Joint Select Committee on the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Legislation took approximately li years to reach its findings into a most complicated matter. Will the Minister call a conference of Service representatives, at which members of the Press could be present and at which members of the Joint Select Committee could answer questions and give a briefing on the scheme, so that the scheme could be clearly understood by the Services and not misrepresented, as appears to be happening in certain quarters? 
I ask the Minister for National Development a question in his position as Leader of the House. Is there any way that the Government can assist the honourable member for Shortland to exercise his democratic right to make a statement in this House? Can the Leader of the House assure this House that the Government will not oppose any desire of the honourable member for Shortland to make such a statement? 
I ask leave to make a short statement on the same matter. 
I ask the Minister for the Army whether he has seen a report that an Australian Army major has been recommended by United States forces for the award of the United States Soldiers Medal for gallantry in Vietnam. Is the report correct that this award cannot be accepted? If so, can the Minister give the House the policy on overseas decorations and awards? 
Is the Prime Minister aware of reports that the Australian Labor Party intends to move for a parliamentary investigation into the so-called terrorist activities of the Ustashi movement? The Prime Minister will agree that the Australian people resent overseas politics being introduced into Australia. Therefore, will the Prime Minister agree to such an inquiry, but will he ensure that any such investigation is not restricted to just this one group but covers all groups whose intention is to subvert and to bring about chaos and anarchy within Australia on behalf of foreign ideologies? Or are we in Australia interested only in controlling subversion in overseas Communist countries? 
It is a great pleasure to welcome the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  and the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  back into the debates on matters of foreign affairs and defence. Their appearance has been noticably lacking in such debates for a period of 6 or 9 months. It seems to us who have missed their company and strong performance that their contributions to the debate today are a good sign, that at last the people of Australia are again to be given the benefit of the true views of a section of the Australian Labor Party, not the facade that is being put up at the moment. I welcome the statement made by the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts  (Mr Howson).  I think it is a most important one because the people of Australia have been awaiting some substantial and authoritative remarks as to what has been the result of the French nuclear tests in the Pacific. I state quite clearly and immediately that I wish to goodness all the nations of the world would cut out the testing of atomic bombs, because I think it is getting to a stage which is dangerous to us all. 
But I become rather fed up at hearing enthusiastic resistance from the Opposition only in respect of those powers who are not within a certain bloc. The honourable member for Lalor has said how many speeches he has made in opposition to Chinese nuclear tests. I can only state that I have not heard one of them. I have t-it read of one of them. He states that he made one last Sunday. Where, we do not know. It did not seem to receive any Press coverage. If we wanted to name one member of this Parliament who is guaranteed the plaudits of certain sections of the Press we could not go past the honourable member for Lalor. 
We all remember the emotion that was engendered in this country when the French nuclear tests were about to take place, but have we ever experienced the equal of it when Russia was about to test or had tested nuclear weapons or when China was about to test or have tested nuclear weapons? The honourable member for Lalor said a few minutes ago that he had not been able to find out exactly what the strength of the tests were. I thought most of these things were regarded as being reasonably secret. I think a lot of people would like to find out some of the details of Soviet tests. The honourable member for Lalor seems to indulge in a number of visits to the Soviet Union. Pre.haps he would be in a position to tell us something further on this matter, but that he has not done. 
It seems to me that there is value at the present time in creating emotional issues in this country. That is not to say that I do not disapprove of the French tests and of all the other tests. It is just that the French tests have been suddenly, through the actions of the Press, the honourable member for Lalor and the Left wing, supported by many good willed people who probably do not know of the background to this matter, turned into an emotional issue. We had such questions being asked as: 'Will Jim go by rocket? Will he go by parachute? Will it be by underwater craft? The trench coat was there and the television cameras were poised. Obviously it was known that our hero would be away. Yoicks! The bugles sounded and the hounds were out. But what happened? It was found that he could not go. But his friend Bednall went. He sailed into the test area and had a good bottle of wine and a chat with the unions. He said that the unions seemed to be a bit disturbed but he was not sure what they were disturbed about. Then he returned to Australia. He seemed to get a bit of the raw prawn back here because not too many people knew what he had achieved. But where was Jim at this time? 
I apologise. Where was the honourable member for Lalor? He was in the palace of something or other, he tells us, with Miss Willesee. What the devil he and Miss Willisee were doing in that palace I would not know. Furthermore, I would not know why Miss Willesee was appointed as a delegate, which I presume she was. of the Labor Party. I am not sure whether the honourable member for Lalor paid his own fare, but members of the Labor Party in my electorate said quite frankly to me that they hoped to God that the Labor Party had not paid his fare. AH I can say is that here we had the spokesman for the Labor Party being photographed with Miss Willesee knocking at the door of the palace with liveried footmen on either side of them. Then the reports came out about the interviews he had. He has now told us about the important people that he spoke to in the French Government. We have only his word for that. We have not heard the French Government confirm what he has stated. Perhaps there could be some verification of that. He went on to show us the knowledge that he had of the subject by speaking in technical terms about atomic and hydrogen bombs and so on. He spoke about thresholds and so on. He also talked about what would have happened if only the Government had used its influence. I do not think that it would matter if he were given a hearing by any individual in the whole of the world because he would still want something more. 
Is it not a fact that the British had a ship in the area? Is it not a fact that the British Government took readings? Is it not a fact that a report that the fallout was remarkably low was published in the Press in Australia? Does the honourable member for Lalor not read the Press? Then we had the great march through Melbourne of school children. We were informed that some ship or other with a pack of characters was sailing into the test area. The heroes of the resistance! All we heard about them was that one minute they were lost and the next minute they were rammed by a destroyer. Suddenly it was a dead issue and nobody cared what had happened to them. The honourable member for Lalor has not been asking any questions about whether they got back. Are they living in a commune again? Are they now living it up? I would not have a clue and nor would the people of Australia. 
What was the end result of the honourable member for Lalor's lolling around in Paris and dining or lunching with the Duke of Edinburgh at Buckingham Palace? Before the honourable member for Lalor got back to Australia his supporters said: We think the bomb went off a week ago'. They did not even know whether it went off at all. They had instruments poised, yachts in the middle of the test area and chaps with beards which were getting tangled in the parachutes that they were going to use to get into the test area. Yet they had to admit that they did not know whether the bomb had gone off a week before. They still do not know. In fact the honourable member for Lalor has admitted that he does not know what the test was. He does not know whether it was a trigger, a hunger or a tom thumb. 
Quite frankly, I think it is lime that this nation woke up to what is happening in certain sections of the Labor Party and a large section of the Press. I agree that all atomic testing should be cut out, but 1 am sick to death of the Labor Party making great emotive issues merely in respect of those with whom we could be friends. Let us hear the honourable member for Lalor and the honourable member for Reid make speeches in the Parliament - where they are paid to be - about the Chinese and Soviet Union atomic tests. There has been blinding silence from them on those tests. 1 asked a question yesterday as to whether we are interested only in favouring the Communist bloc. Are we interested in taking action against the Ustashi? I agree that this matter should be looked at. But there is never a word said by either of those 2 gentlemen or the Leader of the Opposition in respect to the subversion and the other things that are going on in this country that affect the children of this country and the future of this country. 
I have a great deal of respect for the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie),  who is trying to interject. I think he is a man of principle on most occasions. Indeed I pay him the highest compliment. If he could tell me when the honourable member for Lalor, the honourable member for Reid or the Leader of the Opposition ever said anything against any of those other powers he would deserve to be placed at the top of the class. I think it is time that the people of Australia, whilst resenting the French tests and whilst agreeing that the Australian Government should continue to take strong action, were able to see for themselves that any action which is taken does not apply just to American and French tests but also in respect to the other powers to which I have referred. 
The honourable member for Reid said that Australia should take diplomatic action and that it should impose sanctions. I felt that he was almost about to get to the stage of saying that we should declare war. Who has suffered from the protests about nuclear testing by France? The whole Renault plant was almost closed down and unemployment increased. If that is not something which is pleasing to the Labor Party I will eat my hat. It certainly fits in with the Labor Party's whole programme, which is: 'Do not worry about what affect it has on Australia; let us get in on the propaganda side'. 
I have been asked about the statement by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  on defence that he would put troops or something or other into South East Asia for 3-week periods. He has not said whether they would be platoons, sections or just one man. He has not said what the support would be. If a commentator were to ask me what I thought the left wing would say I would say quite frankly that the National Liberation Front would be all for it but that at the present moment the members of the left wing of the Labor Party are all on holidays. They have been told not to play a part in debates where the people can work out the policy of the Labor Party in respect to the defence of this country. 
I end where I started by saying that I welcome back to the field of debate the 2 distinguished members of the front bench of the Labor Party who have preceded me in this debate. I do so because I think that their presence will give the people of Australia more opportunity to get to the truth of the Labor Party's policy on defence and foreign affairs than will the remarks of the gentleman who is about to follow me in this discussion. 
Can the Prime Minister advise this House when the Government will be in a position to announce a decision in respect of the report of the Joint Select Committee on Defence Forces Retirement Benefits legislation? 
It is always a distinct pleasure to follow the honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison)  in a debate such as this, but before I begin my speech proper I want to say how sorrowful 1 am that the forecast I made yesterday that the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  and the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  would be back in the clan and engaging in debates on foreign affairs and defence has obviously been proved wrong. The standard of debate so far has not attained the high quality that they usually put forward or, in my opinion, the honesty of purpose in the statements which they make on the Labor Party's true policy. 
One of the other great pleasures in following the honourable member for St George in a debate is to know that he is present in the Parliament, because, even if this country must suffer, at least our foreign relations have some chance of being maintained when he is here. He said in his speech that he and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  had covered the South East Asian capitals. I can imagine it. For those who are not in the Parliament and who perhaps are considering a scene of the aesthetic diplomat in a black striped suit with a pale, ethereal look on his face leaping from conference to conference, I point out that that is hardly the scene as I see it. I see a gentleman who is overseas trying to persuade those with whom we wish to be friends that what they read in the Australian newspapers, which are purveyed overseas - that the Labor Party in Victoria has supported the National Liberation Front and that various leading members of the Labor Party see nothing wrong in the North Vietnamese moving into South Vietnam - is not true. The honourable member says, in effect: 'I,  Sir, represent  the Australian Labor Party. These men are just outsiders'. (Quorum formed.) I am grateful to the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  for calling in his colleagues at this time. May I finish what I was saying with respect to the honourable member for St George by referring him to the Malaysian newspaper 'Utusan Melayu', particularly an editorial of 13th February 1970. The honourable member had again made a statement that Australian troops were not wanted in Malaysia, and that editorial reveals what the Malaysians said in reply. The honourable member has said that the governments of Malaysia and Singapore do not want our troops and that a statement has been made that, if the Labor Party wishes to withdraw our troops, those countries will not plead with Australia to leave them there or complain about their withdrawal. Naturally. Would anyone expect any nation which has pride and which was let down by one of its allies to crawl to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and to the honourable member for St George, or to plead with such people who have shown such an outlook on defence and foreign affairs? Not darned likely - and I congratulate those nations on their attitude. 
Wilh respect to what has been said today during the defence debate I refer to an article published in Things I Hear' on 
Thursday, 3rd August last. I read it only from the point of view of humour, but it is fairly typical. This is what it said: 

 Mr Whitlam, obsessed with Foreign Affairs (a field in which Australia has no chance of playing an effective role) with  Deputy  Prime Minister in  Mr Bernard- 
That is the opinion of the author. I think he is wrong about  Mr Bernard.  Bernard was the magician. So actually I am not sure that he is wrong. It goes on: 
. whose political career appears to have been based on a smile a day keeping enemies away, entwined wilh a devout belief in the adage that a soft answer turns away wrath. 
Any honourable member who listened to the 50-minute speech by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and could make sense of it, I think, deserves a prize. For my part, I wrote on my pad about 4 lines, and at the end of them I added in large print: 'Not worth noting; completed here'. He talked about an inflated army and about the money wasted on the Navy. The honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating),  who followed him, also talked about expenditure on the Navy and how Labor would buy so many ships - but he never defined what they would be. No doubt it will be a mixed bag of so many rowboats, so many motor boats, and so many boats for members of the Labor Party at Surfers Paradise to use to tow their surf boards. But has the honourable member any idea at all of what defence means? The suggestion he made is that, since at this time 3 ships are intended to be constructed, this means that all you get is 3. Surely he must know that you must start with one, then you get 2, then 3. When he talks about a viable force, does he expect that the number we will require will all be built at the one time? Whenever I listen to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition speak on defence I get the impression that he goes home at night to sleep but has a nightmare, comes into the House next morning and adds something to the policy - but he has not thought it out. 
Consider one of his latest statements, which was again a blandishment to our allies, namely, that the Labor Party will occasionally exercise troops in overseas areas. I do not know whether the left wing would approve of that. But he does not say whether it will be a section of 7, a platoon of 20 or a company of 40. Does he not realise that when you are committed to an action overseas not only do you have troops in the field but they must be conditioned, you must have support facilities, you must have logistic facilities and the Navy must support their lines of communication? Or does he think that if he puts a troop of boy scouts there they can be taken as being equipped as soldiers? 
With respect to national service and the Labor Party's policy of reducing the Army to 29,000  -  the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition calls an army of 40,000 men an inflated army - he should realise that with an army of 40,000 men you could put one task force with supporting troops in the field. It is forgotten now that the troops we had in Vietnam were to a large extent maintained by the United States. In the event of Australia being involed in any hostility in the future, this would not necessarily be so immediately. For every front line soldier we needed 8 men behind. When you consider that an army of 29,000 would include the Women's Royal Australian Army Corps - which, I am sure, would bear the major burden under a Labor government - you realise that the number in that Corps has to come out. When you take into account also the support facilities, logistics and other areas which do not represent front line fighting troops, you reduce it to an effective fighting army of about 5,000 or 6,000 men. If honourable members opposite were to think these things out and honestly told the people of Australia that this is what they envisaged in respect of Australia's defence, I think they would at least get a medal for honesty. They certainly would not get one for anything else. 
We have heard recently the comments from General Daly. It is interesting to note that honourable members opposite will quote the remarks of a very gallant and distinguished gentleman, whom I will not name, whose rank in the Army after serving in a most distinguished arena was that of Captain. He was a very young gentleman when he served and a most distinguished one. But when a former Chief of the General Staff, a man who was responsible for the training, the maintenance and the planning of the Army, speaks out to the people of Australia and says that what the Labor Party means is that Australia would literally have to disband 5 bat talions - most of the effective force in the Army - very few, if any, members of the Labor Party will quote him. Why? 
We heard the honourable member for St George talk tonight about a former Minister for the Army who, he claims, in 1964 rejected the concept of national service. He did reject national service at that stage because the Returned Services League and other organisations were propounding universal national service - not selective national service but across the board national service throughout Australia. At that stage national service was rejected on the advice of Army advisers on the basis that the old 3-month training concept was unworkable and did not produce the required results. This is still the opinion of the Army. It is the opinion of the Army that Australia needs an army of 40,000 or more. I do not think there is any absolute limit or that we can say we need 40,000, 40,001 or whatever figure it may be. The men have to be trained. They have to be conditioned to ensure that if we are faced with a hostile force or there is an action that we have to go into we will not go through what we did when Singapore fell, when men were put into uniform and shot into the front line without any training or conditioning and without any support. To do this would be irresponsibility in defence. 
Members of the Opposition who talk about the condition of the Army and other Services in 1941 should read the Hansard debates of 1937, 1938 and 1939 in regard to what it was suggested should have been done in respect of the defence of Papua New Guinea. They should read what  Mr Ward, Mr Dedman  and others said at that time. Papua New Guinea could go to hell so far as they were concerned. Honourable members opposite talk about Australia's defence unpreparedness in 1941. Those who said in 1936, 1937 and 1938 that there was a danger to this country were mocked time and again, lt is all very well for the honourable member for St George with the dancing feet to say at this stage that there is no threat to this country. Statements such as this have been found to be wrong so often. This is the time when the nation must prepare its defence. It must build up its defence capabilities and obtain a balanced defence which will be not only protection for our own country but also encouragement for those other nations with whom we wish to live in friendship to play their part. It will show them that we are fair dinkum. 
The honourable member for St George was right in respect of one point, and that is in regard to the Vietnam war which did, because of the first priorities which the Army had to have, create a situation in which the other Services to a certain extent in respect of capital items were allowed to run down. But the honourable member did not say, and in my opinion he is not game to say, what the present situation would have been in Indonesia if the United States, Australia and the other forces had not gone into Vietnam. Would the situation that we now have with a noncommunist government in that country be operative? What would have been the situation in Malaysia-Singapore? Even if we played only a small role, at least we played a role, and this area has been able to remain free. In this way the South Vietnamese have been given a chance to plan their own destiny and to stand against their enemy. 
But even now, as I said earlier, the honourable member for Lalor and the Victorian branch of the Labor Party support the National Liberation Front and the procommunist forces. If Australia did withdraw to her own shores and if she did do a springboard, which the honourable member suggested she should  -  I do not think he knows what he is talking about - who could blame the Malaysians, the Singaporeans and others, who have had their countries occupied and who feel rightly that they have been let down once before, seeking an accord with those who may well be our enemies? I am sure that if this happened the Labor Party, whether it were in office or not, would be well in the forefront in blaming them. 
I conclude my remarks by saying that so far as I am concerned any defence debate is valuable, but defence is of no value unless we ensure that our lines of communications and our bases are safe. I think it is time for Australia to determine how safe we would be in this country if we were involved in a war. To illustrate my point, when we fought the communist enemy in Korea and when we fought the communist enemy in Malaysia and Vietnam the troops were let down because we were unable to get equipment to them. Defence is not just a matter of buying equipment and enlisting soldiers; it is a matter of ensuring that the soldiers are supported from behind. 
It is always a great thrill to speak in this House at about 23 past 10, to see the Press galleries of Australia crowded and to know that whatever one says will be regarded with about as much attention as would be given to somebody down in the pub on the street corner. Both the honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Hansen),  who preceded me, and I do our best for the people of Australia. It was interesting to listen to the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  and the honourable member for Wide Bay. The honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory said this was a political Budget. The honourable member for Wide Bay said, amongst other things, that the action taken by the Government was taken because of necessity. I suppose that there is a certain amount of truth in what both of them have said. It is amazing to listen to the speeches on the Budget by honourable members opposite and to find that so many of the things that have been doneleaving aside the political content - have been what the Opposition has been saving has been necessary for some time. But now that it is done, it is all wrong. 
The Opposition cannot have it both ways. I will admit that certain things that the Opposition has said should be done have been done. Honourable members opposite can accuse us, if they like, of taking ideas from them on some matters, but they cannot have it all ways. When it is done, do not say it is wrong. One finds running through Opposition speeches the continual theme that nothing is being done to encourage full employment and that the whole economic situation has been brought about by the Government. 
It is all right for an honourable member, like a parrot, to keep saying That's right', but he should admit that it is right when he is making his speech. No member of the Opposition ever refers to the international financial collapse of last year. 
I am glad. I have a high regard for the honourable member because he is not on the low plane of some of his confreres. Honourable members will recall that the overseas financial market last year created incredible problems within, the Australian economy in respect of mineral resources and other matters on which the economy of this country depends. There was a marked setback. But this is not even admitted in all honesty. It is never admitted by the Opposition that there was a fall in the overseas wool and other produce markets and that this was not within the internal responsibility of government. The Government can plan and do what it likes, but it cannot have much effect on the buying of overseas nations which are not prepared to buy our product or to pay the price for our product if they do not feel inclined or are unable to do so. Therefore there was a great effect on the economy and there was a recession, without any doubt. 
In rural areas there was, without any doubt, increased unemployment. People were forced to put off men working on their farms. People in country areas were forced to cut down on their expenditure. This is a fact of life; it is not a matter of being a smart politician. Therefore, within these country areas and country towns there were many people who were not able to buy an extra car, or even a car. People were not able to buy as many consumer goods as they had bought in the past. This situation moves to the storekeeper in the country town who is not able to sell as much. If he is not able to sell as much, he is not able to employ as many people as he employed previously. Then this has its effect on the manufacturer in the big city because, if he is not able to sell as many cars out in the country areas to the farmer and the farmer's employees, he then cuts down his production and decides that he cannot employ as many people either. So, there were reasons, above and beyond any smart talk about the Government's intention or the Government doing this for a set purpose. There is no reason in the world for saying - surely it cannot be sup ported - that the Government at that time could have done a heck of a lot in respect of overseas buying and the flow-through effect. 
To say now that the Government does not want full employment is just stupidity, because any member of the public knows that the Government is doing everything possible to improve the employment situation. There is only one party that can gain by unemployment and by the moaning, the continual complaining and the continual forecasting of doom in this country. The Opposition speaks about confidence. When has any leading member of the Opposition - from  Mr Hawke  down and including  Mr Whitlam  as second in command - ever spoken of confidence or of the need to build up or to start to engender confidence in the manufacturer - in the person who employs labour? They say: Tt may be 2 per cent now. It will be 200,000 in 3 months. It will be such-and-such a figure in February'. How the devil is this expected to give confidence to anybody who may be considering . increasing his manufacturing, expanding his factory or starting up and re-employing people in the country areas? This foreboding of doom by the Labor Party is assisted by certain of the trade unions that wish to bring about a continual state of unemployment in this country up until the election time because on that basis they consider that they can win. 
Let us look at the unemployment figures for the last month. Is it not a fact that, through the efforts of  Mr Carmichael  and his merry men - the supporters and confreres of the gallant gentlemen on the other side - the petrol supply in Sydney was reduced almost to nil? Is it not a fact that in Sydney industries dependent on petrol were forced to close down? Is it not a fact that when industries are forced to close down people are put out of work? Is it not a fact that in South Australia the Labor Government was forced to regulate and restrict petrol supplies? Did this not affect industry and did this not affect unemployment? But not one word from my parrot friend over there, not one word from anybody as to these factors in the Australian economy. 
One of the things that should be realised by the Australian people at this time is that whatever the Australian Labor Party may say there is no other country in the world that can be pointed to which has a greater stability and a higher standard of living than has Australia and with which the majority of people from the other parts of the world would like to swap. I think it is reasonable for the Australian Labor Party to use the slogan 'It's time for a change'. I think there is in any nation's life sometimes a time for a change. But my complaint is that the people of Australia are entitled to be told to what a change will be made. I think this is the message that the Minister for the Navy  (Dr Mackay)  was delivering. 
Do the people of Australia clearly understand what is envisaged and what is involved in the so-called time for a change, lt is not just a case of a swinging leader of the Opposition with his Saville Row suit or with a T-shirt displaying the words 'I love Whitlam' or 'It's time for a change' or Tommy Hanlon Loves Me' or whatever it may be. This is not the essential point. The essential point is: What is the true policy of the Australian Labor Party and how will it affect every man, woman and child in this country in the future? If we took each Labor candidate into a room and questioned him on the major points of Labor policy I doubt whether we would get one to agree with another as to what the issues were. Who in this country clearly knows what is the Labor policy in respect of tariffs or nationalisation of industry? The Leader of the Opposition says: 'We do not intend to nationalise industry. We are all liberals. Look, I dress like one'. There is no doubt about it. It is most interesting to read some of the things that the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  said on the television programme 'Monday Conference'. He said that if you do not want to extend or expand some industries you can tax them to a stage where it is difficult for them to operate. He goes further. He says that if there are certain things you want to discourage you can tax against those things. What things are they? Perhaps the Labor Party should tell the people. 
What is the Labor policy in respect of immigration? Amongst the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly),  the right honoruable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell),  the new shadow Minister for Immigration who deposed the honourable member for Grayndler, and  Mr Don  Dunstan and  Mr Bill  Hartley on the Federal Executive of the Labor Party, there seems to be some confusion. But on television they assume the attitude that if you adapt yourself to your audience and fill them with these ideas, perhaps you will get away with it. In my book the true policy of the Labor Party will not be found until Labor gets into office, if it gets into office. 
What is the true policy of the Labor Party in respect of defence? What is envisaged? I was with the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard),  the shadow Minister for Defence, in South Australia at the Returned Services League symposium. It seemed to me that he was changing his moods like a chameleon. Every time he got a different question he gave a different answer. He does this every time he is on television and in every country he visits. What is the true policy of the Labor Party on defence? Surely the people of Australia are entitled to know this. The Leader of the Opposition talks about the cities he will build. It is incredible. The more you listen to him the more you can see Brazilias being set up all over Australia, the great meccas of the Labor Party. We can see them - the great edifices with loopovers, fly-overs, ups-and-downs and what have you. But can he say how industry will be encouraged to go to the cities? Will he compel people to live in them? Is this another harebrained scheme of the Labor Party such as that the British Labour Government entered into under the leadership of Wilson or such as those seen in other socialist countries where the government has taken the money from the people and wasted it in building schemes it has not thought out? 
In respect of other matters, such as land and housing, the Labor Party has promised subsidies right, left and centre. Admittedly the honourable member for Wide Bay said: We envisage a deficit Budget'. But a deficit Budget eventually has to be paid for. How is the Labor Party going to do it? The shadow Treasurer has said that the Labor Party would cut down the allowable tax deductions except the allowable deductions in respect of families. It has been suggested that life assurance companies could be compelled to put money into specific areas. What specific areas? Are they to be the builders of these great towns? What sort of towns, we do not know. But the assets and savings of life assurance companies are the assets and savings of ordinary people. If this Utopia does not work, what is the end result? 
What is Labor policy in respect of arbitration? Do the people of Australia clearly understand it? Surely the people of Australia will not be fooled by a pack of television idols singing a song and a couple of parakeets from the Labor Party taking points of order and making speeches in this House. If it is time for a change the honest thing to do is to tell the people of Australia clearly what that change will be to. I think the people of Australia are entitled to know what has been the deal between the Leader of the Opposition and the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. I have heard honourable members on the opposite side suggest that there is such a deal. What is the policy of the Labor Party in respect of arbitration? What is its policy in respect of strikes, the right to strike and compulsory unionism? If you do not conform will you be able to get a job? How will the Labor Party pay for the 35-hour week? How will it pay for ail the things it has promised? If it wrecks the economy of this country it will take a long time to build it up again. There may be people who are tired of a Liberal Government. 
Honourable members opposite say that we have wrecked the economy, but let them point to any country comparable to Australia which has 2 per cent unemployment which we hope to reduce with the co-operation of the Labor Party? What other country of the same calibre, of the same opportunity, has this level of unemployment? What country has had the stability of business, opportunity and advantage that we have? In what other country do people have such freedom? What we are being sold is that it is time for the socialist dream? We can see the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  as Governor-General of the Common wealth. (Quorum formed.) I hope that before long,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  we can have installed in this chamber a machine to deal more expeditiously with requests for the formation of a quorum. Again I emphasise, as I did at the start of my speech, that it is the right of the people to know what is going to happen in this country. We saw on television the great debate between  Mr Hawke  and the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Greenwood).  In that debate we heard nothing whatever from  Mr Hawke  except that the people had the right to break the laws of this country. A feeling is current in Australia that everything is not right. I think the people believe that everything is not right with the leadership that might be given by the Opposition and also with the encouragement given to people to break the law. I ask any member of the Labor Party to answer this question: When your Leader says that it is right to break the laws, and when  Mr Hawke,  your  deputy  leader, says that it is right to break the laws, will this right be given to the people of Australia if the present Opposition should become the Government and its laws are found to be not what the people of Australia want? 
Can the Minister for Defence advise me whether prior to recent moratorium demonstrations Service personnel, including members of the Citizen Military Forces, were instructed not to wear uniform on such days? Were Citizen Military Forces recruiting drives to be held in shopping centres on such days cancelled? If this is correct will the Minister advise the House of the reason for such a decision, in view of the fact that an Australian soldier should be proud to wear his uniform and not be ashamed? Will the Minister assure me that such a decision, which has a lowering effect on Service morale, will not be repeated in future? 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes,  I  do. The honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  in his speech in the Budget debate is reported at page 932 of Hansard in these terms: 
A couple of days ago, the former lecturer at Melbourne's Monash University, the honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley)  went on television to say that it is still not too late to change the Liberal leader if events decide that that should be done. He was supported by the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  who also said that they should change the Prime Minister. 
I said that they could change the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  but I saw no reason so to do. I suggest that the honourable member for Grayndler was rather careless with his words. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr Whitlam's amendment)  stand part of the question. 
Can the Prime Minister advise me whether it is intended that before this Parliament terminates a state ment should be made to this House on the report of the Joint Select Committee on Defence Forces Retirement Benefits which was presented to this House on 18th May 1972, and will honourable members on both sides be given an opportunity to discuss this matter? 
I desire to ask the Prime Minister a question. Yesterday I asked him whether a statement on the report of the Joint Select Committee on Defence Forces Retirement Benefits would be made to the House before it rises. He suggested that I should ask the question today after he had consultations with his Ministers. Is the Prime Minister in a position to make any statement on this matter? 
Mar MCMAHON- Immediately after. I left this chamber yesterday- I commenced making inquiries as to when we could expect a statement in the House relating to the defence forces retirement benefits scheme. I did contact one of the Ministers and also departmental officers about the matter and I have let them know how urgent and how important it is that wc should be able to make a statement on this matter before the House rises. I am sure that the message has been understood and I hope - in fact, I am fairly certain - that we will be able to make a statement on the matter before the House rises. 
 I agree with the cases put by both the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Jeff Bate)  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  I sympathise very strongly with the case also put by the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme).  I have just been told that somebody made an agreement in relation to this debate, but nobody told me about any agreement and, as a member of Parliament, 1 do not believe that in this case I am subject to it. I am most concerned because my electorate has many similar problems to those which I am quite sure are to be found in the Campbelltown area. Whilst I can understand the concern of the Postmaster-General as to the cost of underground cables and as to the necessity for keeping charges in relation to telephone installations to a minimum, and while I can accept the fact that the alternative is either to give the PostmasterGeneral's Department more money or perhaps to have a delay in telephone installations. I do not think this is the complete answer. Indeed, if one looks at the problems of the environment, if one looks at the problems of pollution, one could say the same thing in respect of everything that is infecting and polluting the environment. 
We could say in respect of those factories whose waste flows into the rivers and streams that unless money is invested in an alternative scheme we will not get rid of the pollution. If money is invested in finding an alternative to the present problem it must cost more and must affect the cost of the goods which are manufactured in this way. Pollution of the environment affects more than just the people with telephones. It affects the whole future of Aus tralia and we ought now to be making decisions, not necessarily as to the cost to today's taxpayers but as to the end result for the generations of tomorrow. Pollution has been given world wide publicity. I have in mind the book 'The Australian Ugliness' which publicised the gaping poles with wires running all over them to be found in Australian cities. 
In recent years, as the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  said, it has been the policy of the Postmaster-General's Department to put its cables underground. Honourable members will remember the old problems in developing areas. One month the roads were dug up for the sewage projects; the next month they were dug up by the electricity supply people; and the next month the telephone people would dig up the roads. I thought we had overcome that problem. I agree with the Leader of the Opposition that with coordination of the authorities about half of the present waste of money could be avoided. It is incurred because we are continually working without planning amongst the authorities. The extra charges could well be borne by the whole community because the effects spread further than just among people who want a telephone. We do not want to go gack  to the old conditions. 
The Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme)  has said that there are only one or two cases, and I agree with him. The step taken by the Postmaster-General's Department to put its cables underground is a good one and should be continued. I would hate to see in my electorate in the city of Knox, the Shire of Sherbrooke and the district further out the return of telephone poles, holes being dug in the road and the confusion that we once had. I support very strongly the remarks of the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Jeff Bate)  and the Leader of the Opposition. I have had similar problems in my electorate. The people there are grateful when new post offices and telephone exchanges are built. We are all grateful for the courtesy and consideration that has been shown by the Postal Department, but we have the problems referred to by the honourable member. Parking room is inadequate and staff vehicles stand in the streets in nonparking areas all day. I contend that the 
Commonwealth Government must whenever possible co-ordinate with the local authorities. 
It is not the best advertising for the Commonwealth to say: 'It does not apply to us.' The Commonwealth should set an example. I am grateful to the PostmasterGeneral, particularly in respect of the Ferntree Gully area where this problem has arisen, that his officers have taken every action to see that the problem has been overcome. I accept the viewpoint of the Postmaster-General that extra money is needed. If I and others have to pay more, it is part of our responsibility as Australians at present not to say, T do not want to pay money; I will be dead in  20  years time.' This generation has to accept the responsibility for these problems which go further than the simple question of telephone cables. They concern pollution in all other matters. If we shirk the issue and take the easy way out we will not be fulfilling our responsibilities. I support what has been said by the honourable member for Macarthur and the Leader of the Opposition. Accepting the difficulties facing the Postal Department, I think the Government should take the responsibility in this matter and see that the policy of putting cables underground is continued. 
-] would like to have the opportunity of making some comments about the plea that the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh)  has made but time precludes me from doing so. However, I do think thai there are a number of men in similar circumstances who have served and, I think, done remarkably well. I want to raise a matter in respect of the rehabilitation of ex-servicemen. I would like to explain that the case to which I wish to refer is one which has concerned the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Jeff Bate)  and myself. I give credit to the honourable member for Macarthur for the action he has taken on this over a considerable period. The matter came to my attention only recently. I had an interview with the gentleman today and I said to the honourable member for Macarthur that I would raise it tonight. I am interested in this question because the case is similar to many which came before the Joint Committee on Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Legislation. The terms of reference required the Committee to look at the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act, not the Commonwealth Employees Compensation Act which a regular member of the Service comes under should he be injured in an accident which occurs not in war time. 
The matter which I wish to raise concerns a Lieutenant-Commander of the Royal Australian Navy who was injured in 1969 while serving in the flying arm of the Navy. A limitation of 10 minutes does not allow one to go through all of the details of the case. ] have no joy in standing at 20 minutes to one to talk in the adjournment debate but I think there is some urgency about bringing to the notice of the Government the fact that there is concern both in the Services and in the Parliament as to the lack of co-ordination in respect of rehabilitation when such people are seriously injured. The man to whom I referred who was injured in a flying accident is now a paraplegic and is restricted to a wheelchair. In my opinion the treatment that was meted out to him was not of the kind of which a government could be proud. 
This matter does not concern just the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Went worth).  The Minister was not the Minister at that particular time. I am not making an attack on the Minister for the Navy  (Dr Mackay)  because the Minister for the Navy was not the Minister at that time. It does not affect the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  because the Treasurer was not the Treasurer at that time. But I think that all of the various Ministers who are concerned in this matter, and the Government as a whole, must look at the question of coordinating the rehabilitation of regular servicemen who are injured in this way. I would like to quote from a few extracts of a letter from a former Minister in the Government which absolutely amaze me. This letter in relation to the claim of this man was sent to the honourable member for Macarthur and stated: 
The Commonwealth is prepared to accept liability in respect of its employees, including members of the Services, who sustain personal injury in consequence of their employment. 
Later - and this is the part I react to  -  it stated: 
The possibility of the Commonwealth meeting the expenses of certain modifications to his home and car were carefully explored by my Department. However, as the legislation does not extend to such matters the only way in which payment of those modifications could be accepted would be on the basis of an economic business proposition; that is, it would be necessary to establish that the Commonwealth stood to gain some economic benefit, for example, a saving in future compensation payments resulting from the earlier establishment of ... in employment. 
There was no interest in re-establishing this man so that he could restart his life or in giving him the opportunity to have a more complete life than is possible at present as a paraplegic with the pain and suffering and everything else that he has gone through. The Government was interested in him only as an economic prospect. If 1 had been the Minister - I do not reflect on him because the letter was probably written by the departmental head - I would rather cut my arm off than write such a letter to a man who was injured in the service of the Commonwealth and is now a complete paraplegic. The man is not complaining. He is not asking for more money. He is receiving his DFRB pension and Commonwealth employees compensation payments. On his own initiative he has registered at the Australian National University and is doing his first year of law. He receives no allowance for his car which is of a special type. He was not given any cut in sales tax on the purchase of his car because as he is studying to commence a career he is not using the car to earn his livelihood at this particular time. He is paying the full rate of tax on his DFRB pension. This is not superannuation. He receives a class A invalid pension because he is unable to earn his living. 
At the peak of his career as a lieutenant commander he injured himself in such a way that there is no possibility of his recovering. He already owes an amount of $1,040 for taxation last year and he will have to pay the same amount this year. He has a young wife and 4 children. Under the law the Taxation office cannot allow him a reduction in taxation. When servicemen are injured in this way I think that their pension, because it is a pension for invalidity, should not be taxed at the full rate. As I understand the position, the moment this man receives $1 a year he will lose his entitlement to Commonwealth employment compensation and I think this is quite iniquitous. 
He is entitled to a refund of the fees for his university course at the end of the year if he successfully completes it. To me this is an incredible thing. Surely the Commonwealth should endeavour to rehabilitate him by putting' him through the course, not refunding him the money if he successfully completes the course. Who in this House knows what the pain and suffering of a paraplegic is when there are changes in the weather and in respect of other things? If this man does not pass his first year at the university surely to goodness he should not lose his fees. 
At the present time this man is living at Bruce Hall at the National University. He has to pay for his accommodation there. He also has to pay for his motor car. With a wife and 4 young children this man is in very difficult circumstances. It is not that he does not get enough to live on: It is just that he has not the security that I think he should have. In my opinion the Govenment, even though perhaps it believes that it is doing a good job, has to co-ordinate the taxation position in relation to a DFRB class A invalid pension. I think that this man should be given his pension without any taxation deductions. I think that he should be assisted to purchase a motor car because he cannot get around without one. Because he is not earning his living and because he is studying in order to earn his living, he should be allowed a deduction in sales tax on his car. 
In my opinion, the rehabilitation which has been given to this man is an example of how the system falls down. I and the honourable member for Macarthur give notice that should we be back next year, without any doubt this will be one of the matters which we will take up. I hope that the Government will again look at this case and at other cases of a similar nature. The Minister for Social Services has been most sympathetic. He has told me that if I give him the facts of this case he will look at it again. I stress again , that the Ministers presently occupying these positions are not responsible for this case. I thank the Minister and I hope that the Government will look at this matter more sympathetically not because this man is asking for help but because he says that there are others who are suffering who should be helped. 
It is always very difficult to follow the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  on defence matters. While I accept that defence is an area in which he is most concerned, I trust that he will forgive me if I do not have the same reliance on the attitude of the Party of which he is  Deputy  Leader. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition started off brilliantly and convincingly. I could see a leader of our forces and I could see inspiration being given to our forces, but at the same time I could see behind him other people on whom I do not place the same reliance. 
The Deputy Leader of the Opposition said that he would talk about aircraft construction and supply and other great matters of defence. He referred to the question of capital equipment which, most assuredly, we need and said that it perhaps would be necessary to have an adjustment - a reduction - in manpower. But he then went on to spend most of his time, as per usual from members of the Opposition, talking about the abolition of national servile and the introduction of a volunteer Army. He referred to how the recruitment figures for the Army have increased over the last year, or whatever period it may be. 
What never seems to get through to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition is that there are other reasons for having national service. Although it is a very important part of national service to have a readytogo standing Army that is capable of meeting any threat or of going to any area where a threat might erupt, a second and, I think, equally important reason for national service is the number of reserves who are trained so that, in the event of any threat to or involvement of this country, we have, as each national service intake completes its period of service, men who in the event of mobilisation could be called up and would be ready to go. 
I agree with every word the Deputy Leader of the Opposition said about the Citizen Military Forces; I also think the CMF is a disgrace and I think it is time something was done about it. In Victoria recently there was a task force exercise. A task force of 3 battalions plus support and so on would involve in the vicinity of 4,000 or 5,000 personnel, but the' CMF could raise only 500 troops for the whole exercise. It is breaking the hearts of young men who are prepared to serve. 
Let me get back to the national service issue. At present we have a standing Army which I think is the bare minimum. When we talk about 40,000 men we should work out how many are in logistics and how many of them are in the support area. We do not have a lot who are front rank fighting men. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition speaks about what we need. Let us see what some of the other nations around us are doing. I was in Singapore on 4th October. An article in 'The Straits Times', referring to  Dr Goh  Keng Swee, Singapore's Defence Minister, reads in part as follows; 

 Dr Goh, who was addressing SAF officers at  commissioning ceremony . . . said that such an emergency force would comprise 6 regular battalions and 8 reserve battalions. 
Do we have anything like that for a continent like Australia compared with the size of Singapore? The article continues: 
In addition, he said the SAF had raised 3 artillery battalions and corresponding elements in engineer, signals, armour and logistic support units. 
Do we have anything like that - 
By the end of the year SAF would have another battalion of reserves, the 58 SIR and another battalion. 
But,  Dr Goh  pointed out, SAF would be no threat to others. 
Let us look at the strength he is talking about. He went on further to talk about national service. This is criticism of the point made by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition. The article continues: 
In fact, the real strength of a national service army, unlike thai of a regular army, is developed in the reserve battalions',  Dr Goh  said. 
He said that the Singapore reserve battalions were recalled once a year to do refresher training so that the skills and experience which were accumulated during national service training were maintained at acceptable levels. 
I think that is something that this Government also should consider. 
I give the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition credit for not enlarging on the Labor Party's policy in respect of the force overseas. I had the honour, as he had, of seeing the battalion in Singapore and seeing the command structure there. There is no doubt in my mind that these people are accepted and wanted. Let me quote a section from the Singapore 'New Nation' of 3rd October. This is what it says: : 
ANZUK, forces in Singapore and Malaysia fall into the second category. The defence agreement under which they operate is based on the principle that friendly foreign troops can help a nation preserve its integrity and independence, until the host nation is strong enough to withstand foreign encroachment. These troops are purely defensive forces. 
It goes on further to talk about neutrality and says that neutrality is all very well but it does not compare with having on the ground, at the time these newly emerging nations are building themselves up, troops from oilier countries to show that they do not stand alone. I think this is the great question. 
The Deputy Leader of the Opposition said that defence will not be an issue at the next election. Maybe it will not, but as far as I am concerned there is something that this country needs to know. In the past whenever we have been involved in a war, whenever we have been involved in a situation, it has always been with larger forces of friendly allies. This has been the way we have been able to play a part without great expenditure, without having to build up the logistics and the other things. But this has now changed and the situation can be envisaged where Australia in respect of its strategic situation may not have the great support facilities of the United Kingdom Navy and the great support and supply facilities of the United States of America. Wo talk about 40,000 men and about our defence preparedness, but I doubt very much, under our present defence organisation, whether we could by ourselves mount anything more than a holding situation on Portuguese Timor for 2 days. We must reconstruct and re-structure our whole defence force. We must have capital equipment, landing barges and other engineering supplies for which we have been dependent on the United States and the United Kingdom. We have a role to play in South East Asia. 
I attended the Inter-Parliamentary Union conference in Rome and I spoke to representatives of the South East Asian nations. They know that if we in Australia are not prepared to play our part they must seek accord somewhere else. The Prime Minister of Malaysia has recently been to the Soviet Union. He made a statement there in which he said that the Soviet Union was welcome in trade matters but he did not want to enter into defence arrangements. But the pressures are on these countries and they are confused at present about Labor's attitude. The Labor Party members may have some understanding of this attitude but I can assure them that the other nations in this area have a considerable doubt as to what Australia would be prepared to do if there should arise some situation and as to whether we would be prepared to accept our responsibility or whether we are all talk. The Labor Party must answer for this confusion and lack of trust by these nations. In my opinion it may well force them to decide to seek accord somewhere else. 
There are many things I would like to say in this defence debate but the time limit of 10 minutes is absolutely ridiculous, as I have said many times. It is impossible to talk on defence in that time. I consider that one issue of which the Australian people should be aware is the difference between the. defence policy of the Labor Party and the defence policy of the Government at this time and on such matters as collective security. I do not think the average Australian knows where the. Labor Party stands. Most assuredly, the representatives of the other countries do not. Is its policy on the withdrawal of troops from overseas bases clearly known? What does ANZUS mean to the Labor Party? It wants to strip out national service no matter what our Army strength or our reserves are. Do we clearly know what the Labor Party's policy is on joint facilities with the United States of America? The day may well come - I hope to goodness it never does - when we find ourselves in a situation where the Labor Party has to call on our great and powerful allies. Our great and powerful allies, after their treatment by the Labor Party, may well consider whether they should undertake any obligations. We will be strong only as long as we are prepared to play a part and as long as the people of this country are prepared to make some sacrifice. I read about a bill of $ 1,400m which the Labor Party intends to pick up for education. I have heard of its other promises. I wonder where it will get the money. Defence is only one area- 
I ask the Prime Minister a question. Now that the Government has entered into the field of pre-school and child minding centres, will it allow income tax deductions for expense incurred by single mothers, widows and widowers who wish to earn their living and not be dependent on pensions and who wish to send their children to a pre-school of their choice or make their own provision for the care of those children? 
This move by the Opposition for the suspension of Standing Orders to discuss and vote on the report of the Select Committee on Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Legislation places Government members of the Committee in particular in an awkward predicament. Let me state right here and now that urgent considerations are going on at this moment and urgent considerations no doubt will need to continue for a short time. I accept that necessity and feel sure that my confreres on the Committee accept that situation at this time. The honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  said that the legislation should be introduced. I do not think that any thinking member of that Committee, in view of the incredible involvement of the report, at any time considered that the legislation would be introduced before the rising of this House. 
I agree with the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  that the Govern.ment must make clear where it stands on this report now. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and his Party may consider that they are doing a service to the servicemen; but I, as  Chairman  of that Committee and one who, I am sure the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition will agree, played a part with him in bringing about the Committee, do not feel that, the motion serves the purpose at this particular time. I know clearly where I stand in respect of the DFRB report. I know clearly where I stand in respect of any action I may decide to take once the Government's decision is made. But I am not going to take the action purely because the Opposition at this time has decided to move for the suspension of Standing Orders in an endeavour to commit people before the final decisions have been made. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition is wagging his head, but surely that is the purpose of the suspension of the Standing Orders. Finally, I accept what the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  has said. I agree that the statement must be made before this House rises and, if the report is not accepted, the morale factor of the forces will, in my opinion, be incredibly lowered. It is not for me to make clear now where I will stand if the decisions are not in conformity with my belief as to what should be done in respect of members of the Services. 
The Minister for Defence will recall that some time ago 1 asked him about the possibility of introducing an efficiency or long service decoration for members of the regular Services. I think the Minister promised to look into this matter. Has any progress been made in respect of this? 
It has been interesting to hear what the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  has had to say in reply to the statement that was made by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon).  I want to start by saying that 1 am sure that the Prime Minister did not in any way intend to reflect on the members of the Joint Select Committee on Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Legislation whom he did not mention. I am sure that what he was referring to were the events of yesterday. Let me say that I concur with the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in what he said about every member who served on that Committee from whatever Party or from whatever House he came. The Committee sat with one intention in mind - to obtain for the servicemen and ex-servicemen of this country benefits that we thought were their right, whatever else was propounded to us in respect of the situation of other people. I think all of us felt that the servicemen of this country and their dependants had rights that perhaps were not the same as the rights enjoyed by staff members of the Commonwealth Bank, members of the civil service and so on. 
Let me say this: It is not my intention, nor am I sure is it the intention of my colleagues, to take any credit or to say 'Look what I did' in respect to anything. I regret that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has to make out that if it was not for the Labor Party doing this, that and the other the 80,000 servicemen of this country would have got nothing. I point out to the honourable member that members of the Committee from both sides of the House have asked questions demanding that a statement be made before the House rises because we know that there could be pressures in certain areas to preclude a statement being made or that a statement might be made outside of the House after the 
House rose. We did not want this because I am aware, and my colleagues are aware, that statements made outside this House cannot be debated by members of Parliament and that action that perhaps may be necessary cannot be taken. 
I give credit to the Prune Minister and to the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  for having agreed that a statement would be made. 
Under pressure or not. I have never seen any pressure on the honourable member's side of the House ever being exerted. As far as I am concerned, I do not retract one statement of the report of the Joint Select Committee on Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Legislation. I support it emphatically. I give credit to the Government and I hail its decision on what it now has agreed to do. The main point on which a decision has been reached is that an investigation is to be carried out by an independent actuary into the effects of transferring the pre-fifty-niners and the post-fifty-niners into the present scheme so that their equity will be retained. I accept that. The Government does not propose, as the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition made out - and I do not think that he fully understood the Prime Minister's statement - to make an investigation of the whole scheme. 
I think that the Committee is right in what it proposed. I am not an actuary and the Deputy Leader of the Opposition is not an actuary. All members of the Committee were members of Parliament who were interested in the Services. But I accept that perhaps, as the Treasury has not been able to come up with a definite ruling as to whether there will be detriment in regard to transferring these people, an independent decision should be given from outside. As the Deputy Leader of the Opposition said, the scheme will be retrospective to 1st October. Therefore all of the recommendations of the Committee will be applicable and I am confident that they will be accepted. I am not particularly impressed when I hear the Deputy Leader of the Opposition, in my opinion, playing politics. I am concerned with the question that has now come up - the suggestion to move as a right the pension of the existing pensioner, or the existing retiree as we prefer to call him, in accordance with the annual weekly wage movements each year. It is said, and the Prime Minister has agreed, that this proposal is being assessed at the moment, and the independant investigator also will look at it and the effects that it would have on the superannuation fund and other pension funds. In my opinion this is an essential factor and it must be done. It is all very well for the Treasury to say that such a proposal will affect the superannuation schemes of bank boards and everyone else. But the Committee was asked to investigate the position regarding the Services, and this was our recommendation. Indeed, if this recommendation flows on to other people in the community I do not think that will do any harm whatsoever. 
A committee was set up in 1967 within the Treasury to see how the pre-fifty-niners could be brought into the post-59 scheme. During the whole of our inquiry we could not find why that committee had not been able ever to produce a paper. This is now 1972. I think that this is a reflection on the Treasury. I welcome the fact that the Prime Minister has said that an independent person will be appointed. This person will not check the whole scheme; he will check whether the recommendations of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Legislation Committee can be carried out without detriment to the servicemen involved. We were told in the Budget of last year that the Treasury or someone was looking at how an annual review could be carried out in relation to pension increases and how this could be done in a more effective way than has been done in the past where a review has been carried out every 5 years after which the Government, if it's mood is good, has decided to raise pensions. It is almost November 1972, and it does not seem to me that much has been done as yet. 
I am glad that the job of looking at this matter is to be. given to someone from outside the Treasury because, with respect to the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  I feel that the hand of the Treasury has been over the DFRB legislation for too long. I disagree that this legislation should remain in Treasury hands. I disagree that there is a need for a DFRB board and I do not agree that it would be economic to retain such a board.  1  believe that DFRB matters should be in the hands of the Department of Defence. I think that Defence would handle it capably and to the benefit of the servicemen I would like to make some comment on other factors. The Committee suggested in Its scheme that those with A and B classifications of invalid benefit should not be subject to a means test. The Prime Minister said in his statement that in the broad and in principle the Government accepts most of the Committee's report. I hope that this recommendation also will be one that the Government will accept. The Prime Minister and the Treasurer have said that this will be looked at. But in my opinion, if a man is invalided in his service to the Commonwealth in the defence forces and is in receipt of such a benefit, he should not be subjected to a means test. 
As Chairman of the Committee and as a Government supporter I am not impressed one iota with the support that this scheme has been given by the Department of Defence whose, job it is to stand and speak on behalf of the defence forces. In my opinion, in any Cabinet discussions or any meetings with Treasury officials, representatives of the Department of Defence, are there to represent the views of the services and of the soldiery from wherever they come.  1  have been amazed in respect to the negotiations in which I have been involved - and this is my opinion and I am subject to correction - as to what appeal's to be the little stand that they have made on many of these points. I should like to suggest that we should and will expect in the future a much stronger stand by the Defence Minister on behalf of the servicemen when it comes to a fight with the Department of the Treasury or whatever other factors may be involved. The Services themselves must and will demand this. 
In regard to the Treasury, all I can say is that when we introduced our interim report last December we stated that we could and wished to introduce our full report but that we had not been able to obtain the figures or the facts that were necessary for that report. When we introduced the final report in May we said that we had endeavoured to obtain costings and financial information from the Treasury but that we had been unable to obtain satisfactory material. Indeed, I question what the Departments of Defence and Treasury have been doing in respect to the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund over the period from May, when we introduced our final report until now, when it is almost November. It is my opinion that until the action of the last  2  or  3  weeks very little was done. 
I conclude my remarks by saying that I am grateful to the Prime Minister because when we approached the Prime Minister on this matter he agreed with us and took the whole matter into his hands. In my opinion, he finished up doing a very good job.  1  would like to see the Committee's recommendations accepted in their entirety. It would be the easy thing to do. It would be flattering. The Deputy Leader of the Opposition said I should be insulted. I am not insulted because I think the Government has accepted the main factors and purposes of the Committee's report. An independent investigation will be conducted into the  2  matters that I have raised.  1  welcome this decision because I think that it is stupid in politics for us as laymen to say what can be done in a highly technical, actuarial field. I think that we are right but it is reasonable that there should be an actuarial check conducted on these figures to ascertain whether there could be any disadvantages in what we have proposed, and in this way I welcome the Prime Minister's decision. 
I will state - and  1  do not say this for political purposes because honestly, when  1  hear some of the things which are said in this House I wonder whether it is all worth while - that it is not too late for the Government to introduce legislation in a form acceptable to me and to other honourable members. The Government knows where we stand on this matter. I am grateful for what has been done. In my opinion, servicemen will not be disadvantaged. This means a great deal to servicemen and anybody who wants to make political capital out of it is kicking a rather weak ball at this time. I congratulate the members of the Committee from the Australian Labor Party, the Democratic Labor Party and the Australian Country Party. I think it was one of the best committees that I have seen. I think that the result of the Committee's deliberations was good and I congratulate and agree with the Deputy 
Leader of the Opposition that at no time was politics played within the Committee. It was purely and solely for the benefit of servicemen and I am sure that all of us will continue with that outlook. 

 - Mr Speaker, 1 will occupy only a few moments. I will not soliloquise. I naturally join with all the remarks that have been said by other speakers concerning the attendants and everybody else who serves us in this Parliament. From this side of the House we have heard speeches from Ministers and from Whips but, as a peren nial and born backbencher, I should like to say to those honourable members who are retiring that it has been a pleasure to serve with them. They are men of great honour and great distinction. Those of us who occupy the back benches have enjoyed our moments with them. They have been an inspiration to us. I would point out to any potential Minister, however, that being a Minister depends on the backbenchers behind him. It is a good thing always to remember this. 
The honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope)  has already said this, but I should like to address a few words to the honourable members for Shortland  (Mr Griffiths)  and Gellibrand  (Mr Mclvor)  who are retiring as back bench members of the Labor Party. I assure them that they take from this side of the House the greatest affection as well as the greatest respect for the job that they have done whilst they have been members. Members on this side, in common with members opposite, make their assessments of the people opposed to them. 1 am sure all members will endorse my remarks concerning these honourable members. I have travelled abroad with the honourable member for Gellibrand. I have had discussions with him. We have agreed and disagreed on many occasions. He is a man of honour - a man who has served his country with distinction. He has not had the opportunity to sit on the front bench of the Parliament but I rate him second to none - certainly second to none of those who do sit on the front bench. I believe the same thing may be said by other honourable members from this side about the honourable member for Shortland. He is a man of honour, a man of distinction and a man who knows his views and is prepared to back them. 
I conclude by referring to the right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell).  When I came into this House I did not agree with his politics. In many things I did agree with him, but in the main I did not. When I came into this place  Sir Alan  Hulme was Postmaster-General and at that time it was proposed to increase the price of postage stamps to the soldiery. I nearly had a fit. I got up and down in this House like a yo-yo. From the other side, Arthur Calwell kept waving his hands. I could not understand him. I had been a member for only a month. Later I encountered him on the front steps of Parliament House. 1 said to him: 'Arthur, for Pete's sake what were you doing?' He said: 'I was telling you to sit down. I do not agree with a chap who opposes what is being put forward by his own Party'. I am sorry, Arthur, but I have not yet got the message. However, I can assure you that you have been an inspiration to me and 1 support unanimously and enthusiastically everything that has been said about you. 
